I. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

Private 

Philadelphl\ January 3rd: 1779 [1780.] 
Sir, 

I am hononrd with your two Letters of the loth ulto. give me leave 
to hope that on serious Consideration you have determind to accept your 
appointment or at farthest will soon come to that determination. 

Your Assistance, beHeve me is much wished for and wanted in that 
Important department. The other two members Messrs. Foreman and 
Gibson have accepted, and entered upon the duties of their Office some 
time since, and tho the present Nominal salary is of uncertain value, there 
is no doubt a decent support will be allowd the members of the Treasury 
board " 

You Justly mention difficulties and Embarrassments, but my dear Sir 
let me ask are there any difficulties Existing equal to what you and I ex- 
pected w'hen this Mighty Controversy begun. I hope Sir soon to hear of 
your acceptance and wish for the pleasure to hear it from your own mouth. 

I have long been in the sentiments you express, of the necessity of fix- 
ing a Standard for the currency, and am confident were it once fixd it 
would remove many difficulties, but a free people must feel before they 
will unite in the necessary measures. 

I have ever been of one Opinion with regard to a regulating Act and 
now find my Sentiments coincide with yours on that Subject but I find 
one Consolation very necessary in public life, that is to believe or at least 
act as if I did fully believe there are many wise men who can Judge better 
then my self on Important subjects, and I have the happiness generally 
to unite in promoting their determinations, as far as duty requires in any 
Sphere I am called to act in. 

2. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office January 3d, 1780. 
Sir, 

We were duly honoured with your Excellency's Letter on the Subject 
of ]\Ir Loring's Request for a Quarter Master and a Sergeant or two to 
proceed to Philadelphia with Cloathing for the Prisoners at this Place. 
In Consequence we wrote to Congress the Letter a Copy whereof is en- 

[i]i Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 157 (copy). 

2 On July 30, 1779, Congress adopted an ordinance creating a board of treasury, 
consisting of three commissioners not members of Congress and two members; see also 
the Journals, Apr. 13, 22, 27. On Oct. 12 John Gibson, Jonathan Trumbull, jr., and 
Ezekiel Forman were nominated for commissioners ; Trumbull and Forman were elected 
Nov. 9, Gibson Nov. 25. In a letter of Mar. 10, 1780 (see the Journals, Mar. 22), Trum- 
bull declined the office. 

[2]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed, Richard Peters, "By Order"). 



2 Continental Congress 

closed. We are directed to take Order in the Bussiness '" and are of Opin- 
ion that the Cloathing should come on attended in such Way and by such 
Persons as your Excellency shall deem proper. About four hundred Pris- 
oners are gone to Fort Frederick in Maryland all British. The Rest both 
British and Hessians are either confined here or out at Work thro' the 
Country. We were obliged to let out as many as possible (chiefly Ger- 
mans) to save public Provisions and because we had not Guards to keep 
them safely. 

3. John Mathews to Thomas Bee (?).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. [5?], 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... It is distressing beyond expression to hear the accounts I do 
from all quarters, of the disaffection (I can call their late conduct nothing 
less) of our back country people. Good God ! is there nothing to be done, 
that will tend either to perswaid, or coerce them to do their duty ? Indeed 
my Dear Friend, the day is not to come, it does not depend on our Mili- 
tia's not turning out to repel your present danger, which may subject us 
to the imputation of a want of vigour, the brand is already fixed on us. 
In passing through No. Carolina and Virginia, whenever I urged the 
necessity of their sending men to our aid, the constant reply was how can 
South Carolina expect we will send our men to their support, when they 
will do nothing for themselves. Our men go there, sacrifice their healths, 
their lives, and the So. Carolina Militia are snug at their own homes. It 
is too much for them to expect us to fight their battles for them.' 

Hints of the same kind have been thrown out in Congress. When I 
have principally appologized for our men in the first instance, in the second 
I have treated such insolence with the keenest severity, for let us be cen- 
sured by whom we may, Congress are the last class of men on earth, who 
ought to presume to do so. Before I had received a copy of Rutledge's 
instructions, I had done everything that they required, except sending 
some part of the stores. It is too late now to be done.'^ .... 

4. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia. Jany. 6th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am honoured with your Excellency's two letters of the 13th ulto. with 
the papers to which they refer 

2 See the Journals, Jan. i (p. i). Washington's letter to the board (draft) dated 
Dec. 29, 1779, and the copy of the board's letter to Congress here mentioned, dated 
Jan. I, 1780, are in the Washington Papers. 

tSP Charleston Lib. Soc, Misc. Letters, p. 107 (unsigned, but in the writing of 
Mathews). 

2 See McCrady, South Carolina in the Revolution, 1775-17S0, ch. XX. 

3 Concerning aid sent to South Carolina see the Journals, Sept. 20, 22, Nov. 11, 24, 
26, 27, Dec. 8, 1779, Jan. 4. Feb. 5, 12, Mar. 8, 1780. Cf. vol. I\'.. no. 540, and no. 89, post. 

[4]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 3. 



January, I/80 3 

By late letters I have received from Amsterdam it is abundantly evi- 
dent that your Excellencies correspondence, as also that of Governor Liv- 
ingston, with Baron V. D. Capellen, hath enlighten'd and undeceived many 
people in Holland, and produced many friends and favourable sentiments 
with respect to the cause in which we are engaged. I hope Congress will 
take some honourary notice of the Baron.' 

I am told N. Jersey have just passed a law appointing proper persons 
to purchase all articles of provision and forage for the army which that 
State can supply.^ I was in hopes to procure the act and send it forward 
by Brown. I believe a regulation of that kind will be generally adopted, 
and cannot but hope it may be attended with beneficial consequences to the 
public. I have directed Mr. Brown, if he can obtain the above mentioned 
act in the Jerseys, to take it with him. 

I am favour'd with intelligence on which we place dependance that the 
late embarkation from N. York, on the 23d and 26th ulto., had troops on 
board to the amount of 5,000 effective men, their destination unknown 
and no intelligence has been received of them since they sailed. 

P. S. The papers formerly sent to Mr. Laurens were deliverd to a Com- 
mittee of which he was one; I called on him for them before his depar- 
ture; he deliverd me some of them; the whole I have not been able to 
collect, but shall continue my search, and if I can recover them will do my 
self the honour to forward them immediately to your Excellency. Mr. 
Laurens told me he met with great difficulty to get them translated : few 
persons here understand the low Dutch, your last letter from the Baron, 
I procured a Dutch clergyman, about eight miles from this city to trans- 
late ; he appears perfect master of the Dutch language, but does not write 
English elegantly, tho' I believe gives the litteral sense with exactness.* 

5. Elbridge Gerry to Willi.\m Hunt.^ 

Philadelphia Jany 6th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... \\'ith Respect to the Ballance due to you from the late Commis- 
sary Trumbull, I am unable to determine whether it will be possible or 
not to obtain the payment thereof in Loan office Certificates bearing the 
date of the Time at which the Money was advanced, frequent Applica- 
tions have been made to Congress to adopt that Mode of paying Debts, 
contracted by the Staff Departments for Articles supplied the Army, and 
all have been rejected; but there is a manifest Difference between Bal- 
lances due for Supplies on which the Creditor has charged his profit, and 
Cash advanced by an officer to support the Credit and promote the Busi- 
ness of his Department, the latter of which as you have stated it, is pre- 

- See vol. IV., nos. 550, 609, 644, note 4 ; also the postscript to this letter. 
^ See no. 6, post. 
* See vol. IV., no. 609. 
[5]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin, New 
York. 



4 Continental Congress 

cisely your Case. I am therefore of Opinion, that it will be best to prefer a 
Memorial to Congress, and direct it to the president thereof, represent- 
ing the Facts mentioned in your Letter, and in Support of them to trans- 
mit Mr. Trumbulls Certificate ' . . . . 

6. Roger Sherman to Andrew Adams. ^ 

Philadelphia, January 7th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I obtaind last evening an account of the prices of the several articles, as 
stated by the late law of the State of New Jers[e]y, which is to be in force 
the first of next month, which I have enclosed. I am informed the law is 
absolutely to take effect at the time fixed, without any proviso in case the 
other States do not make similar laws. The State of Maryland has like- 
wise passed a law for the regulation of prices. New York Assembly is 
called on purpose to consider of the matter. The Commissioners from 
several of the States that were present met last evening, pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Hartford Convention, viz., two from New 
Ham [p] shire, two from Connecticut, one from New Jers[e]y, and one 
for Pennsylvania, Mr. L'Homedieu was also present from the State of 
New York, but he says their Assembly made no special appointment for 
this convention, and supposes he has no right to act. I dont hear that any 
other States have appointed members. I believe they expected that the 
resolutions of Congress would supersede the necessity of this convention, 
so that I dont think it will be of any advantage for the Assembly to wait, 
in expectation of having a report from this convention, for I believe there 
will be none.^ .... 

7. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 
Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, 8 Jany., 1780. 
Sir, 

.... The present necessity of the army is truly pressing and alarm- 
ing and the matter of supplies seems to admit of no delay. The army are, 
it is said, without meat, the Commissary will forward a sum of money 
immediately to Connecticut to purchase supplies ; in the meantime it is 
most earnestly requested that the Legislature of Connecticut will lend the 

- This letter is addressed to " William Hunt Esqr. at Watertown ". If he afterward 
presented a memorial to Congress the Journals do not record it. Hunt was a graduate of 
Harvard College (1768), and subsequently represented Watertown several times in the 
Massachusetts assembly (see Genealogical History of JVatertown) . 
[6]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 4. 

2 See no. 4, ante, and no. 9, post. The convention of the New England states and 
New York for the regulation of prices, which had met at Hartford Oct. 20 (see the Jour- 
nals, Nov. 19, 1779; also vol. IV., no. 642, note 2), proposed a similar convention of all the 
states as far south as Virginia, to be held in Philadelphia the first Wednesday in Janu- 
ary. See nos. 18, 21, 23, 28, 30, 39, 52, 95, t>ost. 

[7]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 6; Library of Congress, Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book (Papers Cont. Cong., vol. XIV.), p. 269. 



January, I/80 5 

necessary aid to the Commissary to forward a quantity of beef with all 
possible dispatch." Congress are using every endeavour to lessen the pub- 
lic expence [and the quantity of provision]^ as much as possible, consis- 
tant with the public safety; and if the supplies can be obtained for the 
present, it is to be hoped from the measures that are adopted it may be 
less difficult to obtain supplies in future. 

8. A Committee of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia nth Jany 1780. 

We beg leave to inclose your Excellency sundry propositions referred 
by Congress to our Consideration, and to request your Opinion thereon,^ 
being with Respect Sir your most obedt and very hum. Servants, 

E. Gerry. 

RoBT R Livingston 
Jno. Mathews 

9. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. nth, 1780. 
bir, 

Enclosed is an Act of the Assembly of the State of New Jersy for pro- 
curing supplies.' \\'e are informed that the army have lately been at very 
short allowance of both bread and meat. Their principal dependance is 
on Connecticut for beef. I wish there might be the most vigorous exer- 
tion to furnish a present supply. The Commisary General informs me 
that he sent to your Excellency 200,000 dollars for that purpose : he will 
be furnished with a further sum and intends to come that way himself 

2 President Huntington was transmitting the resolve of Jan. 7 requesting the aid of 
Connecticut to obtain a supply of beef. Cf. no. 9, post. Samuel Holten entered in his 
Diary for Jan. 8, " We have accounts that the army is in great vi^ant of provisions ". 
Under the loth he records, " I dined with the Minister of France. Mr. President Reed 
and a number of members of Congress dined there ". Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 88. 

3 The words in brackets are not in the printed text. 
[8]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

- The propositions referred to are those pertaining to the reduction of the army 
which were moved by Robert R. Livingston Jan. 8 and are printed in the Journals, Jan. 10 
{cf. no. II, post). Washington's reply to this letter, Jan. 23, is in Writings (ed. Ford), 
Vin. 174. A report from the committee, together with Washington's letter, was re- 
ferred, Jan. 29, to the board of war, who brought in a report Feb. 19. (A report on 
recruiting had been offered Feb. 9.) Touching the subject of reduction, some sugges- 
tions of Steuben were presented by the board Mar. 20, recurred to in a second report 
of the same day {Journals, Mar. 21), and were taken up Mar. 25 and further consid- 
eration postponed until Dec. i. See Steuben to Washington Mar. 28 {Letters to Wash- 
ington, ed. Sparks, IL 420), and Washington to Steuben Apr. 2 {Writings, ed. Ford. 
Vin. 237, ed. Sparks, VIL 9). Cj. nos. 112, 113, 145, note 2, post. A motion by Gerry that 
the committee on Livingston's propositions repair to headquarters had been voted down 
Jan. 10, but on motion of Livingston Apr. 6 it was resolved to send a committee to camp 
to confer with Washington on the subject. See nos. 89, no, iir, 130, 132, 149, post. The 
committee at headquarters made a report May 16 on the subject of reduction (no. 172, 
post), and Congress resolved May 30 that it was not expedient to make any partial 
reduction of the army at that time (see no. 206, post). 

[gl^Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HL 8. 

- See no. 6, ante. 



6 Continental Congress 

very soon. Stopping the press occasions a scarcity of money. The States, 
I believe, are now collecting their taxes; but if they done (don't?) keep 
the money collected for the continent seperate from that collected for their 
own use there will be danger of a deficiency of supplies to answer the war- 
rants drawn by Congress, which may be attended with dangerous con- 
sequences. Commissioners are arrived from M^aryland to attend the con- 
vention to consider of a limitation of prices. I was informed some weeks 
ago by one of the delegates of that State that the Assembly had passed a 
law for the limitation of prices, and he shewed me an abstract of the Act; 
but it proves to be a mistake.^ A bill was prepared but not enacted into a 
law : and the Assembly is adjourned till March next 

P. S. I wish to have another Delegate come and relieve me ; for I want 
very much to return home. 

lo. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Phila'a, Jany. 12, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclos'd an Act of Congress of this day 
together with Extracts of three Letters to which the Act refers. These 
I am directed to lay before the Legislature of Connecticut " or in their 
Recess before your Excellency in Council, as also the other States therein 
mentioned, and to urge in the most pressing manner that Immediate sup- 
plies of provision be by those several States sent to the Army. 

After the facts stated in the papers enclos'd perswasion and impor- 
tunity seems unnecessary. The Army must soon disband unless supplied 
with provisions. That cannot be obtained [at the present Conjunction of 
Affairs]^ without the aid of the several States now called upon. The 
Country abounds with the necessary Resources, but private gain seems 
the only Object of too many Individuals without any Concern for the 
public Safety. 

Congress have taken proper Measures to have Justice done those States 
that shall afford present Supplies. The Exertions of N. Jersey are already 
called forth on this occasion. Must it be said that our Army disbanded 
for want of provisions in the midst of plenty. 

Since the resignation of Commissary ^^'adsworth the Aid of the States 
is absolutely necessary to afford Supplies until such time as blatters are 
put in a proper Train which I trust will not be long.* 

^ See no. 6, ante. 
[ 10] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 273 (" N. B. The same to 
New York, Pennsylvania, and Delaware"); ibid., Force Trans., Trumbull, XL; Conn. 
State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL; Mass. Hist. See, Collections, seventh ser., 
IIL 9; Pa. Arch., first ser., VTIL 85; Clinton Papers, V. 453. 

2 New York, Pennsylvania, and Delaware, respectively, in letters to those states. 

2 The words in brackets are not found in the letter-book copy. 

■* The reply of the Pennsylvania council, Jan. 15, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VUL 87. 



January, lySo 7 

II. Elbridge Gerry to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 12 Jany. 1780. 
Sir, 

The Requisitions to the several States for Reinforcements to the Army, 
proposed in your Letter of the i8th Novr. last, are not yet adopted by 
Congress; and a fresh application from your Excellency appears to me 
necessary for promoting that important Business, a Report has long since 
been made on the Subject, and been several Times under the Considera- 
tion of Congress ; " but an opinion has been lately suggested, and I fear 
with too much effect, " that the Number of Men inlisted for the War is 
already sufficient, and that reinforcements are not necessary for the Army 
in this Quarter ".^ Should this Sentiment prevail, or the Requisitions be 
much longer delayed, we shall probably lay the Foundation of an inactive 
Campaign, if not of greater Misfortunes; and renew the uneasiness of 
the Court of France, who last year remonstrated in very friendly, but 
expressive Terms, against the Delays of our military preparations for that 
Campaign. As the Measures of our good Ally for the establishment of 
our Independence, as well as those of the common Enemy against it, are 
prosecuted with the greatest Vigor, it appears to me that we are urged by 
every principle of policy. Generosity, and Honor, to be equally vigorous 
and decisive, and I have been thus induced to trouble your Excellency on 
the subject. I hope that the measures taken, and such as are under the 
Consideration of Congress for obtaining Supplies of provision, will effec- 
tually relieve the wants of the Army, which I confess distress me exceed- 
ingly.* 

I remain Sir with every sentiment of Esteem and Respect 

your most obedt. and very hum. svt. 

E Gerry 

12. John Armstrong to George Washington.^ 

Carlisle 12th January 1780. 
Dear General, 

The present distressing Aspect of our publick affairs compels me to 
add to your Excellency's present troubles the reading of the following 
lines. About this time I hoped to have heard of your being in Philada. 

[11]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
II. 376; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 306. 

- Washington's letter of Nov. 18, read in Congress Nov. 26, is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), VIII. no. The committee brought in a report upon it Dec. 7, and additional 
reports Dec. 14 and 16. For the further consideration of these reports see the Journals, 
Dec. 18, 29, 1779, Jan. 18, 24, 1780. On the latter date certain phases of the subject were 
referred to the board of war (see also Livingston's motion Jan. 29). For consideration 
of the board's reports see the Journals. Feb. i, 4, 5, 7-10; see also nos. 38, 41, 45, post. 
Washington's reply to Gerry, Jan. 29, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 182 (ed. Sparks), 
VI. 455 ; Lije of Gerry. I. 307. 

^ See the motion of Robert R. Livingston, in the Journals, Jan. 10, and no. 8, 
note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 12, 17. 
[12] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 

n. 377. 



8 Continental Congress 

and fully intended writing at some greater length than the haste of the 
bearer will now admit. 

I need not take up the train much less the causes of our present most 
critical and dangerous situation, the flames of political destruction are 
enkindled all around us and have made their formidable progress but too 
obvious even to common reflexion; nor have I ever seperated the great 
publick concern from that peculiar degree of anxiety which must possess 
your mind in the languishing state of our finance ! On the subtile subject 
of finance my pretentions are truly small, but on the necessity of some 
different measures from any yet adopted what man can shut his eyes? 
To say nothing of the various aireal schemes that have been thrown out, 
one thing is clear, that even such as have been tryed from their shew of 
more reason and solidity, either from their being inadequate in their 
nature, or too late in their application have palpably failed of the effect, 
for some time past we have resembled a Patient far gone in disease, given 
up of his Physicians and left to the mere efforts of nature. Now whether 
we shall proceed in this same natural or rather slothful and timid way, 
leaving our internal commerce to regulate itself, and take chance for the 
event, or attempt the plain highway of Law and publick authority, in the 
regulation of Prices generally, appears to be the Question, and that with- 
out an alternative that can promise success. The latter however degraded 
by Merchants or exploded by some politicians of more refined sentiments 
if I have any opinion at all, is the better if not the only fundamental 
means of our political recovery. I know there are powerful Objections 
to this doctrine of regulation of prices by law, or rather they are power- 
fully made, for at this time I must in truth declare I think their whole 
operation impertinent, inconclusive and lost in the superior force of these 
arguments which inevitably result from the present circumstances of this 
country, whereby the great Law of Necessity is now clearly introduced for 
the tryal of a legal regulation of Prices, and must at least fully justify the 
experiment. I know the grand difficulties, as well as the nicities attending 
such regulations must lie in the execution, and penalties of this Law — hard 
they may be but ought not tO' be supposed insurmountable. True the vir- 
tue of the populace is very low, but not altogether extinct, the latent re- 
mains whereof must yet instrumentally save us. if so, how are we to 
animate these remains, when the natural springs thereof are so much 
relaxed — No other probable or perhaps possible way but by the salutary 
stimulace of publick authority, and the encouragement they may derive 
from a near prospect of Peace, or at least of retrenching the extra ex- 
pences of the Civil Staff of the Army, which wou'd naturally lead to some 
farther observation, I mean such as arises on the remarks, sentiments and 
temper of many people far out of your sight and hearing — but now Col : 
Davis waites with impatience and obliges me to conclude. Yr. Excell'cy 
will easily conceive my design in these hasty lines arises from a wish that 
your helping hand may be put to this business altho' out of your strict 
sphere of action, as it is to be apprehended that different sentiments on 



January, I/80 9 

politicks may obstruct the measure." I am with great truth and respect, 
your Excellencys 

Most Obedt. and Affectionate Hble. Servant. 

John Armstrong. 

[P. S.] I cou'd sincerely wish the poHcy of Virginia respecting their 
Land-Office and extent of territory were otherwise timed and more dis- 
interested. 

13. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. 14, 1780. 
Sir, 

Congress have no late intelligence from Europe, nor do they yet learn 
the destination of the troops lately embarked from New York 

Much credit is due and given to Connecticut for the supply of beef said 
to be coming on from thence to the army, whose distress has been great 
and situation yet remains critical for want of provisions. Eight dollars 
have been given in its vicinity by the soldiers for a quart of meal and half 
a dollar for an ear of corn. Flour and grain are procured sufficient, it is 
said, for some months and now forwarding as fast as may be : and every 
attention will in future be paid to furnish money for the beef department. 

The failure of that great resource, the press, gives as was expectable 
a violent shock, but it is hoped will prove a salutary one. The system of 
taxation urged by necessity is now establishing itself fast. All the States 
in the Union, so far as I can be informed, are now levying and collecting, 
pursuant to the requisitions of Congress, tho' in some of them their As- 
semblies have not yet been together to consider of the quotas last required. 
Maryland Assembly has indeed lately been together and adjourned with- 
out making provision therefor, owing to their not being able to obtain 
a vote in the Senate for the sale of British and Tory property. But as 
they have called on their people at large to shew their sense on that ques- 
tion, and are soon to meet again, there is no doubt of that obstacle's being 
removed and that Maryland will chearfully and fully furnish her quota. 
She is now making every exertion to supply the army with bread. 

Greater unanimity has at no time perhaps prevailed in Congress than at 
present, or ever been more necessary. 

14. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[January 15. 1780.] 
i^. Congress agreed upon a number of resolutions for establishing a 
Court of Appeals, of members out of Congress. - 

2 Cf. nos. 21, 52, 95, post. 
[i3]iMass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 10. 
[14]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 88. 

2 Under Jan. 22 Holten records, " Mr Wythe, Mr Holman and Mr , Judges 

of Appeals ". The last two names should be Hosmer and Paca. Concerning the Court 
of Appeals see nos. 19, 27, 33, post. 



10 Continental Congress 

15. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

Circular 

Philadelphia January 18, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosd two Acts of Congress 
of the 13th and 14th Instant. The former containing the regulations 
adopted relating to prisoners of War whether taken by the Continental 
Troops or captured by the Arms of any particular State either by Sea 
or Land. 

Many difficulties have frequently occurred for want of such a general 
regulation too numerous to be recited. It is proper to observe that the 
first paragraph of the Act recommending to the Executive of the several 
States to transmit with all possible Expedition to Gen. Washington the 
names and rank of all Officers, and the number of privates belonging to 
the Enemy held as prisoners of war in each State and the places where 
they are at etc. should be complied with as soon as possible by those States 
that have any number of prisoners. 

The other Act of the 14th Instant recommending to the legislatures of 
the several United States to make provision when not already made for 
conferring like privileges and Immunities on the Subjects of his most 
Christian Majesty as are granted to the Subjects and Inhabitants of these 
United States by recited Articles in the Treaty of Amity and Commerce 
will no doubt be chearfully complied with by each of the States. 

His most Christian Majesty as soon as the Treaty became known pub- 
lished an Edict conformable to that Article exempting the Subjects and 
Inhabitants of these United States from the Droit d'Auhanc etc." 

16. Samuel Huntington to the Treasurer of Connecticut 
(John Lawrence).^ 

Philadelphia i8th January 1780. 
Sir, 

I am under the disagreable necessity of Requesting Two thousand dol- 
lars to be advanced to me in Continental bills from the Treasury of Con- 
necticut on accoimt of my Services, must request you to pay the same to 
the bearer Eben'r Devotion Esq and Charge it to me. I am Compelled to 
give you the Trouble to apply to the Committee of pay table to get an 
Order for that purpose if you find it necessary. 

[15]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 277; Alass. Arch., CCIL 25; 
Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 143 (to the president of New Hampshire) ; Conn. State Lib., 
Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL 34; N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; A^ C. 
State Recs., XV. 318; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VH. 23; Arch, of Md., XLHL 405; 
N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans, no. 649 (to the president of 
Pennsylvania) ; Hist. Magaainc, XIV. 222 (to the same). 

2 Samuel Holten records in his Diary for this day, " I dined with the Minister 
of France" {Essex: Inst. Hist. Colls.. LVL 88). Such entries are frequent in the Diary, 
sometimes only a few days apart. Another event of this day is recorded by the diarist, 
although whether it took place within or without doors he leaves untold ; moreover he 
makes the entry under Jan. 19 : " Yesterday Mr. Searle cained the Sec'y of Congress 
and the Sec'y returned the same salute." Ibid. 

[i61i Conn. State Lib., Rev. War. first ser.. XVL 537. 



January, I/80 11 

In my present Situation Connecticutt is at no expence for my Support, 
as they are for their other Delegates, and it is out of Character for me to 
ask for any monies out of the Continental Treasury; my wages whatever 
the State shall think fit to allow me are all due ; Decency and a regard for 
the Honour of the State I represent, Obliges me to more Expence than in 
any Other Situation would be necessary or desirable by me ; as I am 
obliged to receive the Company of all Forreigners of Distinction Espe- 
cially the Eoreign Minister and must appear decent in dress etc. which is 
at this time very dear : I am Compell'd to request the advancement afore 
mentioned, which I Desire may be granted. 

I have no Intelligence of Consequence, and am with Esteem 

Your humble Servt. 

Sam Huxtixgtox 

NB I have mentioned this matter to Go'r Trumbull as I am under real 
necessity for the money 

17. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of North 
Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

„. _ Philadelphia, Jany. 21st, 1780. 

Enclosed is an Extract of Intelligence received through the most Au- 
thentic channel, and may be relied on.' .... The Mrginia line, which 
is on its march to reinforce the Southern Army, will be, we hope, at least 
time enough to come to the relief of Charlestown should it be invested, 
at all events to check them in their approach to our Country. 

Wq are well informed that the German Princes have refused Troops 
to Great Britain, and even permission to recruit in their dominions 

18. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Dear Sir, j / / j ^ / ^ 

.... I have before said that I am astonished not a Line comes from 
you respecting either \^ermont or the regulating Convention now sitting 
here.' It is not less surprizing that we have only a Certificate of Election 
without any Reference to former Instructions. You know that in the 
Cases of Georgia and North Carolina it was Determined that the Appoint- 
ment of several Delegates to represent a State, without any specified No. 
for a Vote supposed Each one competent.^ New York demands that 
Priviledge. Virginia is now represented by one 

\^^\^N. C. State Recs., XV. 323. The letter is signed by John Penn, Thomas Burke, 
and Allen Jones. 

~ The enclosure was an account of the embarkation of troops, presumably destined 
to the Carolinas and Georgia. 

[i8]iN. Y. Pub. Lib.. Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See no. 6, ante, and nos. 21, 23, 28, 30, 39, 51, 52, post; see also the Journals, 
Nov. 19, 1779, and vol. I\'., nos. 642, 665. 

^ See the Journals, July 24, 1778. Adams's reply to this and later letters of Lovell, 
Mar. 5, is in Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 180. See also his letter to Lovell Mar. 25, 
ibid., p. 183. 



12 Continental Congress 

19. James Lovell to Samuel Adams/ 

Dear Sir, ^ 21 Jany. 80. 

.... We are, as usual, mightily divided on Elections. The 3 Judges 
of Appeals are to come from 10 or 12 Nominations.^ Schuyler and Pick- 
ering are chosen for the reforming Com'tee ^ the first as the Member of 
Congress. Mifflin, Bull and Bodinot divide us ; the Reasons given for not 
chusing the first, with all his Knowledge and Spirit, are from Devotees- 
to-Fabius,* who every now and then by their Behavior and Arguments 
appear to think him a most malignant and revengeful Genius. 

Tace Paca, Duane, Bodinot, Hosmer, McKean, Lowell,' R T 

Payne, Sullivan, Wythe are in nom'n for Judges. Hunting^don, Gerry 
and Livingston wd. have their Names withdrawn. I would not risque 
Coll. R H Lee in the present Temper of the House, though I think him 
extremely well calculated.^ But, in the Course of Speaks the day before 
yesterday on Arthur's Request to have Copies of certain Papers, I found 
a Number of Virulentissimes still cocked and primed at the very Name 
of Lee.^ I suppose I have told you that the Genl. of that Name is in- 
formed we have no need of his Services.^ 

I have other Business than the Duties of Friendship to attend therefore 
Adieu 

JL 

20. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

r, o- 22d of Jany. 1780. 

JJear Sir, j j 1 

.... We are aiming at a Curtail of Expence by Inspectors to visit 

and break up unnecessary Posts in the Staff Departments, and reduce the 

[19]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See no. 14, ante, and nos. 27, 33, post. Cf. note 5, below. 

3 A committee on the reformation of the staff departments of the army was appointed 
May 28, 1779, and brought in a report July 23. See vol. IV., no. 303, note 3, also the 
Journals, July 9, Aug. 11, Oct. 18, 19, Dec. 4, 1779, and Jan. 20, 21. 22, 1780. On 
Jan. 20 Congress provided for the creation of a commission of three, one of whom was 
to be a member of Congress, to overhaul the departments. Schuyler (as a member of 
Congress, although then absent) and Pickering were chosen on this commission Jan. 21, 
and Mifflin Jan. 22. Schuyler, in a letter to Congress Mar. 6, declined the appointment, 
and on the loth the remaining commissioners were authorized to proceed upon the busi- 
ness ; but a committee of three was thereupon designated to act with the two commis- 
sioners, and Schuyler was placed on that committee (the other two were Sherman and 
Allen Jones). Schuyler nevertheless stood firm in his refusal to serve. Cf. nos. 22, 26, 
27, 76, 77, 86, 88, post. 

* That is. General Washington. 

5 The name appears in the Journals, Jan. 20, as " J. Lovell ", but this is doubt- 
less an error. It seems altogether improbable that James Lovell, the writer of this letter, 
should have been nominated for a place on the Court of Appeals. It was doubtless John 
Lowell of Massachusetts, who was subsequently (Dec. 5, 1782) chosen a member of the 
court. The list of nominees given in the Journals includes also the name of Dickinson, 
although erased, as are the names of Gerry and Lovell (Lowell?), but does not include 
(James?) Sullivan, or Huntington, or Livingston. Wythe, Paca, and Hosmer were elected 
Jan. 22. 

^ Richard Henry Lee was nominated Apr. 3 for the vacancy created by the dec- 
lination of George Wythe. 

■^ See the Jaumals, Jan. 19; also Arthur Lee's letter of Sept. 10, 1779. in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 313. 

8 See no. 20, post. 
[2o]iN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVII. 



Jamiary, I/80 13 

Number of Officers : and also to lessen the number of Horses and Wag- 
gons in the Army. In short we are beginning to do many Things that 
ought to have been done a Year ago." 

We have no ]\Ioney nozu to squander upon A. B, C and all the Letters 
of the Alphabet under the sole Restriction of " he to be accountable ". 

on the loth a \'ote was carried " that Major Genl. Charles Lee be in- 
formed that Congress have no farther Occasion for his Services in the 
Army of the United States " 5 ayes 4 noes 3 divid'd. It was upon reading 
the following Letter which, in my Opinion, is forged.^ .... 

21. John Armstrong to Joseph Reed.^ 

Carlisle 24th Jan'ry 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Every part of your Obliging letter merits attention, but the 
burthen thereof being perfectly expressive of our main concern — the 
deplorable state of our puhlick affairs — I shall therefore confine the few 
following thoughts to that subject, confessing at the entrance that I 
neither know, nor profess to know any thing of that Subtile Science of 
Finance as such — the Conviction I have results from the mere Operation 
of things and presses on the mind by dint of necessity — for however low 
we may be, I am not for leaving this great business on which depends not 
only our Political, but in some degree our natural preservation also, to a 
mere course of nature — As a Vesel deserted of her Crew, or a patient of 
his physicians. The means that in my Opinion appear the most proper 
for our recovery and deliverance, are Simply these — ist. a Regulation of 
Prices by Law — 2d A speedy reformation of abuses, and retrenchment of 
Expences in the two great lines of the Civil Staff, and some other appen- 
dages of the Army, more immediately under the direction of the Board 
of War. Whether this last shou'd extend to the line Military, the General 
will best judge, but unless there are officers supernumerary the line cannot 
be touched — 3d. the laying in of certain Ouantitys of Grain into publick 
Magazines, or particular Mills appointed for the purpose the Millars for 
the sake of the Tole, I presume wou'd readily find Granaries : this grain 
to be laid in at the regulated price, either in part or whole of the Owners 
Tax, allowing him a moderate Mileage for Carriage. The first of these 
I call, the basis of every thing Salittary — the mode is at once, regular, 
virtuous and necessary, and at present perfectly consistant with the Spirit 
of good Government — diametrically opposite therefore must the temper 
of that man be. who wou'd resist or evade such a Law. However ardu- 
ous the Execution of this regulating law may be found to be, I humbly 
presume the necessity and expedience of it. must to every candid Observer 

- See no. 19, ante. 

3 Lee's letter is printed in the Journals, Jan. 10. Lovell may have reached the 
conclusion that the letter was forged from the fact that is was not in Lee's writing. 
In a postscript however Lee explained that his hand was wounded. See, further, his letter of 
Jan. 30, in the Journals, Feb. 12. 

[2i]iN. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, VL 



14 Continental Congress 

be as evident as the noonday sun, and this necessity must at least justify 
the Experiment. To say that such a law is at no time practicable, is pay- 
ing an odious Compliment both to God and Man ; to him who hath the 
hearts of all men in his hand, the original institution and approver of all 
lawfull means, in the use where he may be said to superintend the gener- 
allity of human affairs — to our Countrymen and fellow Citizens, as tho' 
their love of nominal or even a little real superfluous wealth shou'd lead 
them headlong to political destruction or that they shou'd be found in- 
capable of society and the blessings thereof, by a lawless and refractory 
dispossion [sic], rending asunder it's most salutary bonds! forbid this 
Almighty God, the author of order, of human nature itself, and giver 
of every good and perfect gift. The Hacknied Maxim, that Trade Must 
alwais Regulate itself, Is in our situation as impolitick as it is arrogant 
and absurd, and patience but scarcely restrains from bestowing upon it the 
severer epithets due to a possition so very ill-timed. Amongst the aerial 
or more refined schemes of Finance which have been exhibited most 
whereof must be considered as so many phantoms, it's said there is one 
lately suggested by a Mr. Usher from Maryland," which with the em- 
broidery of a Loan to the publick of fifty millions of Dollars and a con- 
siderable sum in specie, I confess puts on a glittering aspect — having had 
but a cursory and perhaps an imperfect relation of that Gentlemans 
Scheme, the least we can say is that it's well Ushered in and perhaps with 
a good designe, but as it contains an antidote only to One branch of our 
disease, Speculation or private monopoly, we must doubt the effect like 
its cause wou'd only be partial — And the articles of commerce limited to 
certain Companys however large and free, might one day produce as bois- 
terous a noise on our shores as the rising tides whereby they are intro- 
duced. The plain high way of publick authority for America, Wise and 
just Regulations by Law — Loping ofif every experience and superfluous 
branch in our several departments — persevering, but moderate Taxation, 
such as every taxable may obviously bear. Honest Loans, justly if not 
generously requesting the lender whether he lent sooner or later in this 
conflict, but especially those who have advanced or shall advance their 
money in the publicks extreamity. These Measures together with the plain 
lines of oeconomy and good government, will by the divine blessing which 
on the American cause we can never doubt (if we exclude it not by inat- 
tention or wicked works) will recover our finances — replenish our Trea- 
sury, support our Army and ensure the establishment of American 
liberty.^ .... 

22. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren.^ 
My dear Sir: Philadelphia, Jany. 25, 1780. 

It is a long Time since We have heard from our Friends eastward, and 
We impute it to be the Severity of the Winter, but yesterday I received 

- Presumably the " Letters on Appreciation " referred to by Gerry in his letter 
to James Warren Jan. 25 (no. 22, post). 

^ Cf. no. 6, and note 4, ante. nos. 52, 95, post. 
[22] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, II. 123. 



January, 1/80 15 

by the Post your agreable Favour of the 27th Deer., the Desire of which 
was increased by the Detention. 

I should have been glad to have seen your Remarks on the anonymous 
Letter, but Mr. Lovell informs me, he has not yet received them.^ 

The Policy of America will succeed or fail in my Opinion, in propor- 
tion to her Exertions for establishing a Navy. I well remember that You 
was the first to promote it, and altho it was disapproved by some in Point 
of Time, the Benefit derived from the Measure has clearly manifested 
the Wisdom of it. the State of our Finances will check it's present 
Growth, but I doubt not that it will soon flourish, and that Time will 
suggest Improvements in the Arrangements and Regulations of the 
Boards that are appointed to cherish and conduct it. I am very sensible, 
that the officers of these Departments have been poorly rewarded, and 
was lately of a Committee who reported that their present Salaries should 
have a Retrospect to Novr. 1778, but the Subject is not yet considered by 
Congress : I think however that You have their fullest Confidence.^ 

Congress have not yet determined whether to remove eastward or 
southward; both are talked of, but your Remarks respecting the Navy, 
are conclusive in my Mind, in Favour of the former.* 

The great objects of Attention in Congress are Oeconomy and Re- 
sources. Necessity dictates their Measures, and I hope will produce salu- 
tary Effects, the Departments of the Muster and Barrack Masters are 
abolished and the Business of the former annexed to the office of In- 
spector. Generals Schuyler and Mifflin and Colo. Pickering are appointed 
a Committee, with full Powers to inform themselves by Inspection or 
otherwise of the State of the Staff Departments, to call on any of the 
officers thereof for Information, to discharge all persons therein that are 
supernumerary or delinquent, to break up unnecessary issuing Posts and 
establish others where requisite, to stop all Issues of Rations not indis- 
pensibly necessary for the Service, and in Conjuncture with General 
Washington to reduce the Number of Horses and Waggons in the Service 
and Expence of Transportation, and to adopt a general Reformation of 
the Departments, the States are to be also called on for their respective 
quotas of Supplies and authorized to stop all purchases by continental 
officers, when Measures are adopted for complying with the Requisitions 
of Congress ; and to induce the States to purchase cheap, they are to be 

2 In a letter to Lovell written in the preceding December {Warren-Adams Let- 
ters, II. 121) Warren speaks of the anonymous letter (copy of which Lovell had sent 
him) attacking the navy board of the Eastern department and Warren in particular. 
Cf. no. 28, post. 

^ See the Journals, Nov. 12, 1779, and Jan. 27, 1780. 

* Dec. 3, 1779, acting upon a motion of Dec. i, Congress resolved to adjourn 
from Philadelphia the last Saturday in April, and set the first Monday in January for 
consideration of the place to which the adjournment should be taken. On that date 
(Jan. 3) the question was postponed to the last Monday in February, thence it was 
further postponed until the second Monday in March, at which time it was postponed 
indefinitely. Two weeks later however (Mar. 27) the matter was brought up again, with 
the result only that Hartford and Trenton were voted down, as jvas also a motion to 
repeal the resolution of Dec. 3. Cj. nos. 26, 69, post. 

6 



16 Continental Congress 

credited equal prices for Articles of the same Kind and quality, and in 
proportion for other Articles. ° 

I inclose You the News papers containing three sensible Letters by a 
Gentleman in Maryland on "Appreciation ",'' and can give You nothing 
new, excepting certain Information from the Court of France that by 
their Interposition the British Court have failed in their Applications for 
Recruits to the several Powers of Germany/ 

The Massachusetts Delegates are sitting in Congress by Vertue only 
of a Certificate of their Appointment from the Deputy Secretary. They 
have never aspired to be commissioned, but wish not to loose their Rank 
as warrant officers.® 

I observe your Apprehensions relative to a new 0[uarter] M [aster J 
G[eneral], but have no Reason to suppose them well grounded, altho the 
Matter has been suggested in Congress. I remain Sir with every Senti- 
ment of respect your Friend and hum. Ser. 

23. Oliver Ellsworth to Samuel Lyman. ^ 

Philada. Jany. 25, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Congress have lately reed, a packet from france with dispatches down 
to the 9th Septr. but they contain no very material Intelligence more than 
you will pick out from the enclosed papers. 

The Convention for a Limitation of prices being attended only from 
N. Hampshir. Connecticut, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware and Mary- 
land did not think proper to proceed on business espicially as a resolution 
of Congress passd since their being called recommending a Limitation of 
prices seemed to have decided on the Expediency and necessity of the 
measure they accordingly adjourned without day." 

Despair not however of the currency's receiving a fixedness and Justice 
being done. In my next I will write you more particular on this Subject. 

The Army are again comfortably supplied. I wish to hear what is done 
or doing at our assembly, and any thing else you will please to inform 
me of. 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 20, and no. 19, note 3, ante. 

^ In the Pennsylvania Packet of Jan. 20 are two " Letters on Appreciation ", and 
a third by the same writer in the Packet of Jan. 25. They are unsigned, and no indica- 
tion of their authorship is there given. Gerry speaks of the author as " a Gentleman in 
Maryland", while Armstrong in his letter to Reed Jan. 24 (no. 21, ante), referring no 
doubt to the same articles, mentions that the author was a Mr. Usher. This may have 
been Thomas Usher of Baltimore. 

■^ See Luzerne to Washington Jan. 23 (Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr., IIL 464). 
Luzerne there speaks of communicating these facts to Congress, but such a communica- 
tion, if in writing, has not been found. Cf. the memorial of Jan. 25 {ibid., p. 469), and the 
Journals, Jan. 25, where the text is given in full. 

® The Massachusetts credentials are in the Journals, Jan. 2. 
[23] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., American Lawyers, IL 

2 See nos. 18, 21, ante, and nos. 28, 30, 54, post; also a letter from William Ellery 
to Governor Greene of Rhode Island, Feb. 15, in Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., p. 272. 
Ellery attended the convention on behalf of his state. 



January, I/80 17 

'24. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 26 1780. 
Sir, 

Colo. Blain who will deliver your Excellency this, is now making the 
necessary appointments and arranging the business of his department; 
and will be happy to avail himself of any information and aid your Ex- 
cellency may please to furnish him in the eastern districts. 

We need not suggest to your Excellency how important it is become to 
give every facility to supplies for the army and to place them on the sur- 
est footing both from the present state of our magazines, and the necessity 
that seems to be opening upon us to replenish them for another campaign. 
Peace is but little relied on as the result of the present winters negociations 
by those who are in the best scituation to judge of them. 

Congress have recent assurances that France and Spain on the one hand 
as well as great Britain on the other are sparing no possible measures and 
preperation for the ensuing season and by taking early advantage thereof 
to render it decisive on the great question of american independance. And 
that these States might not be unfurnished for the necessary exertions 
on their part, his most Christian Majesty has in addition to timely com- 
munications, passed an order to his Ministers amply to supply them w-ith 
arms and ammunition." .... 

2^. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia January 27, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the 24th Instant was duly received and laid before 
Congress.^ 

After the most mature deliberation, Congress from a full conviction 
of your knowledge of the subject, and that the honour and interest of the 
United States in the matter of negotiating and settling a Cartel may safely 
be trusted in your hands, have passed the enclosed Resolves, and com- 
mitted the whole to your prudence and discretion. 

By the second Resolution they have repealed the penal part of the reso- 
lution of the nth Instant, leaving the settlement of the Accounts to nego- 
tiation, and that the demand of the money at this Juncture by the Treasury 
might not embarrass you, they have ordered the Board of Treasury to 
suspend the Requisition, until the proposed negotiation for exchange of 
prisoners is finished; so that you are left to act upon the common princi- 
ples of equality, Justice, and propriety, as if that Act had never passed. 

[24]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 42 (in the writing of 
Ellsworth, signed by Sherman and Ellsworth) ; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
Trumbull, XL 42. 

2 See Luzerne's memorial, in the Journals, Jan. 25, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
in. 469. Cf. nos. 37, 39, 41, post. 

[25]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers: ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 286. 
2 The letter of Washington referred to is that of Jan. 19. See the Journals, Jan. 
25, 26. 



18 Continental Congress 

As our Treasury is empty of hard Money and Congress relied on the 
payment of the Debt due for the Convention Troops to defray the Ex- 
pences and Debts of our Officers in Captivity, I trust that Circumstances 
will not escape your Excellencies Notice though at the same time you will 
be satisfied it is the intention of Congress a demand of that debt should 
not be made an Ultimatum, or a preliminary to prevent a Cartel in other 
Respects admissible. 

As Congress have been pleased to refer this negotiation wholly to your 
Excellency without any Direction or expressing their sense on any par- 
ticular Articles which you had requested the Event of the proceedings on 
the Subject must meet with their approbation. 

26. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia 27th Jany. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have only leisure to acknowledge the rect. of your favor of the i8th ^ 
and to return you my sincere thanks [as a]' person deeply interested in 
the event of this controver[sy] for the readyness with which you offer 
to sacrifice yr. [prjivate feelings to the general interest. I have sounded 
[m]any members about it some I find extreamly well dis[p]osed to the 
measure while others again receive it with more coolness rather on ac- 
count of the novelty of the [ijnstitution than from any other motives tho' 
perhaps the dismissal of Genl. Lee ^ which makes the rank you [cjlaim the 
more important may have some influence [on] their minds. But this last 
consideration is so much [le]ss weighty than the first, that I am persuaded 
[if] you would accept Greens place which he wishes to [qu]it that you 
may have it on your own terms. ^ 

What I would particularly mention to you is my [earn] est wish that 
you will comply with the request con[tai]ned in the resolutions of Con- 
gress transmitted to you by the President, and they apply to you as a mem- 
ber of [Co]ngress who are capable of extricating your country [fr]om 
the ruin that threatens it should you suffer any personal considerations 
to interpose or prevent your a[f] fording the assistance they request when 
you act no[t] as their servant but as one of their body, you will off [er] 
room to your enemies to alledge that private conven[ience] more than 
publick reasons have influenced your past [con] duct. Your Friends will 
be disappointed and hurt, An[d the] measure which they have so much 
at heart (to which [they] consider this as preparatory) be entirely 
defeated.*' .... 

[26]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1256; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, 
no. 747 (copy). 

- Schuyler's letter was probably concerning the position he had resolved upon with 
regard to service under Congress. See nos. 76, yj, post. 

3 The left-hand margin of the manuscript is torn off. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 10, and no. 19, a)itc. 

^ Concerning General Greene's resignation see vol. IV"., pp. 539, 542, 543. Cf. 
Greene to Washington Mar. 6, in Letters to IVasliiiuiton (ed. Sparks), II. 405; also nos. 
61, 77, 109, no, post. 

^ See no. ly, note 3, ante. 



January, lySo 19 

I cannot enlarge, (as I fear I have already missed the post) but just 
so far as to tell you that we ha[ve] not yet determined where to move to, 
that questio[n] being put of to the 1st of February/ Our Affairs [are] 
as much deranged as ever, our finance far from b[eing] restored, And 
our army living from hand to mouth, when we shall get thro' these per- 
plexeties I know no[t.] . . . . 

27. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

[January 28, 1780.] 
.... Congress has for more than a year had under their considera- 
tion a plan for establishing a court of appeals in all cases of capture, and 
much time has been spent upon it. They have at last finished it, and ap- 
pointed their judges. The gentlemen appointed are. Mr. Wythe of Vir- 
ginia, Mr. Paca of Maryland, and Mr. Hosmer of Connecticut. They 
are to begin their courts at this place, and they have it in their power to 
adjourn to any place between Williamsburgh and Hartford, having an 
eve to the number of causes that are or may be brought up to them.- 

In order to correct abuses and to retrench our expenses. Congress have 
appointed Commissioners with ample and sufficient powers, over the whole 
Staff Department of our Army; the gentlemen appointed are General 
Schuyler, General Mifflin, and Mr. Pickering, who is now a member of 
the Board of War: if those gentlemen will undertake this business (and 
I hope they will not refuse) they may save some millions to this conti- 
nent, and render their country most essential service.^ .... 

28. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 
Dear Sir, ^^^h of Jany., 80. 

Major Osgood " arrived here on the Evening of my last Date to you 
(the 25th) when I mentioned not having seen Gen. Warren's Letter re- 
ferred to in one which had reached Mr. Gerry. The Major delivered it 
safely. Nothing had been said or done on the scurrilous Information that 
caused the Remarks. I think McNeille cannot be suspected of the Base- 
ness, though his Mind must be irritated greatly at his Fortune.^ 

I do not know but the regulating Convention may again get effectively 
together, but if they do, I suspect the Consequence will not only be to let 
us and themselves down easily.* 

" See vol. IV., p. 543, and no. 22, note 4, ante. 
[27]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 91. 

2 See no. 19, ante, and no. 33, post ; see also vol. IV., p. 235, note 3. 

3 See nos. 19, 26, ante, and nos. 77, 88, 89 (note 3), post. 
[28]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Samuel Osgood (1748-1813) had been sent as a delegate to the Philadelphia con- 
vention for, the limitation of prices. Holten records in his Diary under Jan. 25, " Samuel 
Osgood Esqr. arrived here from Boston, charged with business from the Court " (Essex 
Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 89). See Adams to Gerry Dec. 20, 1779, in Writings (ed. Gush- 
ing), IV. 168; also nos. 41, 50, 51, post. 

5 Goncerning the " scurrilous information " see no. 22, note 2. ante. Adams replied 
Mar. 5 (Writings, IV. 180) : " I was far from intending you should think I meant 
Gapt. McNeil. I am sure he is a Man of too much Honor to write the anonimous Letter 
the Gommittee receivd." 

* See nos. 18, 21, 23, ante, 30, 54, post. 



20 C ontincntal Congress 

Perhaps I shall find today that I can pennize and draytonize ^ enough 
to tell you more than just summarily that we must endeavor to act vigor- 
ously in concert next campaign. You must not know even this from me, 
tho' the Continent ought to think it seasonably. I shall consult w'th my 
Colleagues upon the Subject. It is very delicate to say that there is not 
any hearty Wish for Peace yet in two of the Parties, who may neverthe- 
less give into negotiating Formalities for a Time. 

JL 

29. Philip Schuyler to the Lieutenant Governor and the 
Speaker of the Assembly of New York.^ 

Albany January 29th 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

Concieving it my Duty as a Servant of the State to advise the Legisla- 
ture of any Occurrences in Congress which may immediately affect either 
the Honor or the Weal of the State, I beg Leave to inform the honorable 
Houses in which you respectively preside of some Matters which I in- 
tended to have conveyed thro' his Excellency the Governor, supposing that 
to be the proper Channel of Communication : but was prevented by his 
leaving the City, and as I humbly concieve the Subject worthy the imme- 
diate Attention of the Legislature and that Evils may possibly arise from 
Delay, I have taken the Liberty to address myself to you, trusting that 
his Excellency's Candor and that of the Legislature will excuse the Im- 
propriety if it should be deemed one. 

Deeply impressed with a Sense of the extensive Advantages which 
would probably result to the United States in general, and this in par- 
ticular, from a perfect and permanent Reconciliation with an Enemy so 
formidable to a weak and extensive Frontier as fatal Experience has 
evinced the Indians to be, to whom Distance of Situation seems no great 
Obstacle to prevent or retard their Incursions ; reflecting, with the most 
anxious Concern, on the Desolation and Variety of Distress incident on a 
Savage War; apprehensive that they would consider themselves without 
any Alternative but that of recommencing Hostilities ; dreading the Effects 
of a consequent Desperation on their part ; firmly believing that the greatly 
deranged State of the public Finances would render it exceedingly diffi- 
cult to procure the necessary Supplies for that Army only which must 
keep the Enemy's Force on the Sea Board in Check; doubtful whether 
Detachments of sufficient Force to protect the Frontiers could be spared 
from our Army whilst the British retained their present position ; aware 
of the Distresses and Expence incident on calling forth the Militia for 
the purpose; convinced that an Obstacle of very interesting Importance 
would be removed if Events should happily arise which would permit us 
to turn our Attention to the Reduction of Canada or the Enemies For- 

^ An allusion to accusations against John Penn and William Henry Drayton of 
divulging secrets of Congress. See vol. IV., nos. 19 (note 4), 401 (note 6). 
[29] IN. Y. State Lib., Legislative Papers, no. 1544. 



January, I/80 21 

tresses in the interior parts of the Country; persuaded that no farther 
offensive Operations could be prosecuted against the Savages with any- 
probable prospect of adequate Advantage I embraced the earliest Oppor- 
tunity to advise Congress of the Overtures made by the Cayugas, and 
took the Liberty strongly to point at the Necessity of an Accommodation 
with all the Savages : but not being honored with an Answer as early as 
the Importance of the Object seemed to require, and wishing to improve 
the Advantage which the first Impulse occasioned by the Disaster the In- 
dians had experienced would probably afford us, I hastened to Congress 
to sollicit their Determination which was obtained on the l^hlank'] Novem- 
ber last, Copy whereof I have the Honor to enclose.^ 

Whilst the Report of the Committee in the Business I have alluded to 
was under Consideration a Member ^ moved in Substance " That the Com- 
missioners for Indian Affairs in the Northern Department should require 
from the Indians of the six Nations, as a preliminary Article, a Cession 
of part of their Country, and that the Territory so to be ceded should be 
for the Benefit of the United States in general and grantable by Con- 
gress." A Measure so evidently injurious to this State exceedingly 
alarmed and chagrined those whose Duty it was to attend to its Interests. 
They animadverted with Severity on the unjustifiable principle held up 
in the Motion ; the pernicious Consequence of divesting a State of its 
undoubted property in such an extrajudicial Manner was forcibly urged : 
the Apprehensions with which it would fill and affect the Minds of a people 
who had been as firm in the present glorious Contest ; who had made more 
strenuous and efficacious Exertions to support it; had suffered more and 
still suffered as much as any were strongly painted. The Improbability 
that the Indians would acceed to a Reconciliation when such a preliminary 
was insisted upon was observed by many Members and urged on a Variety 
of Considerations. The Gentlemen in Favor of the Motion attempted to 
support it on the general Ground that what was acquired or conquered 
at the common Expence ought to enure to the common Benefit ; that the 
Lands in Question, altho' they might be comprehended within the Limits 
of the State of New York (which however was not acknowledged) was 
not the property of the State ; that being either in the Natives or by Right 
of Conquest in the United States. The Motion was nevertheless after 
some farther desultory Debate rejected : but from what drop'd in the De- 
bate we had Reason to apprehend that several who were opposed to the 
Motion founded their Opposition on the Necessity of a Reconciliation 
with the Indians, against which, they imagined the Spirit of the Motion 
would militate. And we had a few Days after a convincing proof that an 
Idea prevailed that this and some other States ought to be divested of 
part of their Territory for the Benefit of the United States, when a Mem- 

2 The action of Congress referred to was on Nov. 27, 1779. See the Journals, Oct. 
22, Nov. 4, 21, 27, and Schuyler to Clinton Nov. .29, in vol. IV., no. 668. 

3 Henry Marchant. See the Journals, Nov. 27. 



22 Continental Congress 

ber * afforded us the perusal of a Resolution for which he intended to move 
the House purporting " that all the Lands within the Limits of any of 
the United States, heretofore grantable by the King of Great Britain 
whilst these States (then Colonies) were in the Dominion of that prince, 
and which had not been granted to Individuals should be considered as 
the joint property of the United States and disposed of by Congress for 
the Benefit of the whole Confederacy." The Necessity and propriety of 
such an Arrangement was strenuously insisted upon, in private Conver- 
sation, and even supported by Gentlemen who represented States in Cir- 
cumstances seemingly similar to our's with Respect to the Object of the 
intended Resolution. It was observed that if such States whose Bounds 
were either indefinite or were pretended to extend to the South Seas 
would consent to a reasonable Western Limitation that it would supercede 
the Necessity of any Intervention by Congress other than that of perma- 
nently establishing the Bounds of each State: prevent Controversy and 
remove the Obstacle which prevented the Completion of the Confedera- 
tion. As this State would be eminently affected by such a Measure it was 
deemed of Importance as fully to investigate their Intentions as could be 
done consistent with that Delicacy and prudence to be observed on so 
interesting an Occasion and a Wish was accordingly expressed, as arising 
from mere Curiosity, to know their Idea of a reasonable Western Limi- 
tation. This they gave by exhibiting a Map of the Country, on which they 
drew a Line from the North west Corner of Pennsylvania (which in that 
Map was laid down as in Lake Erie) thro' the Strait that leads to Qntario 
and thro' that Lake and down the St. Lawrence to the forty fifth Degree 
of Latitude for the Bounds of this State in that Quarter. Virginia, the 
two Carolinas and Georgia they proposed to restrict by the Allighany 
Mountains, or at farthest by the Ohio to where that River enters the 
Missisippi and by the latter River to the South Bounds of Georgia. That 
all the Territory to the West of those Limits should become the property 
of the Confederacy. We found this Matter had been in Contemplation 
some Time; the Delegates from North Carolina having then already re- 
quested Instructions from their Constituents on the Subjects, and my 
Colleagues were in Sentiment with me that it should be humbly submitted 
to the Legislature, if it would not be proper to communicate their pleasure 
in the premisses by Way of Instruction to their Servants in Congress. 
I am Gentlemen with Great respect and Esteem 

Your most Obedient Humble Servant 

Ph : Schuyler 
The Honorable Pierre Van Cortlandt and Evert Ban[c]ker Esqrs. 

^ The proposed motion was probably exhibited by one of the Mar\dand delegates 
(Plater or Forbes), but possibly by a New Jersey member (Houston or Fell). On this 
question see H. B. Adams, Maryland's Influence upon Land Cessions of the United 
States, pp. 30-32. See also the preceding volume, passi)n, particularly nos. 291, 629, 639. 
Sept. 6 a resolve looking primarily to the completion of the Confederation was adopted, 
and a motion was thereupon made by the Virginia delegates (Jones and Madison) on the 
general subject of the Western lands. See nos. 288, 422, post, and cf. Witherspoon's 
motion of Sept. 6, 25, 1782 (Journals). 



February, 1780 23 

30. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^^y Philadelphia Jany. 30th 1780. 

Since the Letter ^Ir. Sherman and myself did ourselves the honor of 
addressing to your Excellency by the last post, a commissioner - has arived 
from Massachusetts to attend the convention for a limitation of prices, 
which had adjourned sine die, also a commission from Rhode Island to 
their Delegate in Congress to the same purpose. Uf)on which the Assem- 
bly of Pensylvania to whom their commissioners had made report, have 
reappointed others to meet again, and a meeting has been thereupon had 
from commissioners of all the States who attended before, except New 
Jersey, with the addition of Massachusetts and Rhode Island, at which 
also the delegates in Congress from N. York attended, tho' not specially 
authorised and gave assurance that their State would abide the measures 
that might be come into. The convention having again formed now stands 
adjourned to Wednesday next for N Jersey commissioners who are sent 
to. to come in — the result of which meeting will perhaps be a further 
adjournment to a distant day to give Virginia, who has not yet done it, 
oppertunity to appoint and send commissioners. It does not appear indeed 
what more can well be done at this time, as some y^ of the commissioners 
present are not authorised to do any thing unless the convention should 
be attended from all the States first proposed.^ .... 

The supplies and prospects of the Army are now comfortable — the 
General was reduced to the necessity of demanding from the several Coun- 
ties in N Jersey specifick supplies, which with much spirit they complyed 
with even beyond the requisition.* Maryland is said also to have fully 
complyed with the requisition of Congress to that State for 15.000 bar- 
rels of Flour. Delaware has als[o] exerted herself much, in the same 
way — the Assembly of this State are now together and seem disposed to 
furnish the 50,000 barrels of Flour requested of them, as also to go into 
such further specified supplies as may be necessary.^ .... 

I take the liberty to mention to your Excellency that the scituation of 
my afifairs renders it necessary for me to return home by the begining of 
march, and to express my wishes that some of the Gentlemen on the new 
Election may find it convenient to take their seats in Congress by that 
time. 

31. The Secretary of Congress (Charles Thomson) to the 

Several States.^ 

^ly Secretary's Office ist Feby. 1780. 

I now enclose you the journals of Congress which will compleat the set 
for your State to the first of Jany. 1780. Hereafter they will be printed 
in monthly pamphlets which shall be regularly sent. 

. [30]! Conn. State Lib.. Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI.; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collcc- 
tions, seventh ser., III. 12. 

2 Major Samuel Osgood. See no. 28, ante. 
^ Cf. no. 6, note 2, ante, and no. 54, post. 
* See the Journals, Jan. 31, and cj. no. Z7, post. 
' See the Journals, Jan. 28. 
[3i]'Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 24; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Ford Coll. (to Pennsyl- 
vania) ; Clint 01V Papers, V. 471. 



24 Continental Congress 

I take the liberty of reminding you of the request in my letter of 20th 
Novr. last to which I have not been honored with an answer." The request 
therein contained is not suggested by idle curiosity but a desire of pro- 
moting public utility and the cause of America. I am, Sir, with due respect 
your hum'e Servt. 

Chas. Thomson. 

32. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Feb. 1st, 80. 

Not a Line of Information from you respecting the \ ermont Business. 
Certain Men are here from the Grants to support its Independence and 
ofifer to come into the Union but not to submit the Question of their Ex- 
istence as an independent State." 

JL 

33. The President of Congress to George Wythe. ^ 

Philada Feby 2, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the enclosed Acts of Congress of the 15 and 22 Ulto herewith en- 
closed together with your Commission you will be informed that Congress 
have constituted and established a Court of appeals for the final Trial and 
determination of all appeals from the Courts of Admiralty in the several 
States in Cases of Capture, and that you are elected one of the Judges of 
that Court. 

By Reason of the present State of the Currency the Salary of the 
Judges is not yet fixed, yet there is no doubt their Salaries will be decent 
and satisfactory; at present twelve thousand dollars is to be advanced to 
each of them for support that they may immediately enter upon the Busi- 
ness of their Office. 

The first Session is to be held at Philadelphia as soon as may be to hear 
and determine the Causes already appealed, and afterwards at such times 
and places as they shall Judge most for the public good any where be- 
tween Williamsburgh and Hartford inclusive. 

I hope the Business may not employ so much of your time as to inter- 
fere with your other Engagements and deprive the public of your Service 
in this important Station, as it may be in the power of the Court to state 
the Time of their session convenient for themselves without Injury to the 
public. 

' The request was for the constitution and laws of each state. See vol. IV., p. 524. 
Cf. no. 115, post. 

[32]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The men were Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward. See the Journals, Feb. i, 7; 
cf. nos. 38, 40, 43, post. 

[33]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 290. 



February, ij8o 25 

I have only to add, the Election of the Judges was with great unanimity, 
and I trust will give Satisfaction to all the States." 

X B. The same verbatim to Messrs Paca and Hosmer. 

34. Samuel Holtex, Diary/ 

[February 2, 4. 1780.] 
2. Dr. Brown.- the chief Physician and Surgeon of the army, spent the 
evening with me. 

4. The medical committee met in my chamber. 

■^^. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Feb. 4th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I did not know but some Persons might chuse to have by them 
the Treaties in french, the Language in which they were originally drawn 
up; therefore I made the Printer bind a few of the Sheets which he had 
struck off. but was forbidden to insert in the 4th Vol. of the Journals; ' 
you can accent them with a fine nibbed pen. The Printer had no Tipes 
for that Purpose 

36. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 7th 1780. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honour to forward the enclosed letter from Gen'l Lin- 
coln address'd to your Excellency. 

As Major Lane ' the Express charged with this Letter was late a Pris- 
oner in Savannah, and your Excellency must be anxious to know the State 
of the Prisoners in the southern Department; I have examined him on 

- For the development of the Court of Appeals see the Journals, May 22, Aug. 26, 
Oct. 29, Nov. 15, Dec. 5-7, 1779, Jan. 4-8, 14. 15, 20, 22, 27, 31, Feb. 2, 1780; cj. nos. 19. 
27, ante. Some further resolutions relative to captures were adopted May 24 (see also 
the Journals, May 4, 5). For action on the salaries of the judges see the Journals, Aug. 11, 
Sept. 9, 13. Paca's acceptance of the appointment is recorded in the Journals, Feb. 9, 
Hosmer's May 4. Wythe declined the appointment and Cyrus Griffin was elected (Apr. 
28) in his stead (see the Journals, Mar. 13, Apr. i, 3, 15, 28, May 4; also no. 231, post). 
Hosmer died in August, and although Congress several times set a day for choosing 
his successor it was not done until Dec. 5, 1782 (see the Journals, Aug. 25, 29, 1780, 
Feb. 27. 1781, Nov. 22, Dec. 2, 5, 1782; also Livermore to Weare Mar. 12, 1782, in vol. 
VI.). For some aspects of the history of the court in the interval see the next volume of 
these Letters. For a special examination of the subject see Dr. J. F. Jameson's study, 
" The Predecessor of the Supreme Court ", in Essays in the Constitutional History of 
the United States; also Hampton L. Carson, History of the Supreme Court, chs. HI.- VI. 

[Z^]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 89. 

2 Dr. William Brown. 
[35]! N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XVII. 

- Cj. no. 66, post. 

[36] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Major Joseph Lane. See the Journals. Mar. 3, and Heitman, Hist. Reg. A copy 
of his information is in the Washington Papers, under date of Feb. 7. In the Calendar 
of the Washington Papers he appears however as " John ". 



26 Continental Congress 

that Subject and taken his information in writing which is herewith en- 
closed, yet hoping you may find in Gen'I Lincohis Letter a more accurate 
Account of the Matter.^ 

37. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).' 

^^. Philadelphia Feby. 7, 1780. 

.... The vigorous exertions of the State of New Jersey to provide 
for the late necessities of the Army are such as have done much honour 
to the Magistrates and Inhabitants of that State, and procured a plentiful 
temporary supply." 

I may with propriety acquaint your Excellency with our reason to 
expect that the plan of operation for the ensuing Campaign will be such 
on the part of our Ally, as should call forth our most vigorous Exertions 
and Cooperations to expell the Enemy from the United States and put a 
period to the War.^ 

The Measures adopted by Congress for recruiting the Army for the 
next Campaign allready too long delayed will be forwarded in a few Days 
and I hope may reach you before the Assembly rises.* 

We have undoubted Intelligence that an Expedition against Pensacola 
was forming at the Havannah, the last fall, and have recent Accounts 
and reports that they are now in possession of that place and have made 
the Garrison prisoners, consisting of about Nine hundred Men but of this 
Success we have no official Intelligence. An Express is Just arrived from 
Georgia which brings the above report respecting Pensacola but knows 
not how the Intelligence arrived there though the Capture of the place 
was publicly talked of there. By this Express we received letters from 
the Governor and Assembly in Georgia assuring us they meant to defend 
themselves and support the common Cause to their utmost.^ .... 

38. Nathaniel Peabody to Woodbury Langdon.^ 

,, n • Philada. Feb'ry 7th 1780. 

My Dear sir, ^ ' ' 

.... The affair of Bradford is frequently agitated but we have come 

to no dicsion upon the matter as yet, though I think we shall in a few 

days when I am apprehensive the conclusion will be agreable to my wish.' 

3 See no. 37, post. Lincoln's letter was doubtless that of Jan. 8 {Letters to Wash- 
ington, ed. Sparks, II. 375). See however the Journals, Feb. 7. Washington replied to 
Lincoln Feb. 27 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 204, ed. Sparks, VI. 474). See also Wash- 
ington's letter to Don Juan de Miralles, the same date {ibid., p. 476). A letter from 
Lincoln to the " Committee of Correspondence" Jan. 8 was read in Congress Feb. 15. 

[37P Conn. State Lib., Trum.bull Papers (AI. H. S.), XL 53; Librarj' of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, XI. 53. 

2 Cf. no. 30, ante. 

3 See no. 24, ante, and nos. 39, 41, post. 
* See the Journals, Feb. i, 9. Mar. 11. 

^ See no. 2)6, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 3, 11, 15; cj. no. 53, post. A postscript 
of Feb. 8 says, " Another Express is Just arrived from Genl. Lincoln ", and gives an 
extract from Lincoln's letter of Dec. 22, mentioned in the Journals, Feb. 7. 

[38]! Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, MSS., 1660 to 1855, no. 55 
(marked " no. 8"). 

2 Cf. vol. IV., no. 694, note 2. Peabody probably alludes to action by the board 
of admiralty rather than by Congress. The board was particularly desirous at this time 



February, lySo 27 

The \'ermont affair has not come on but will soon. Ira Allen has been 
going to and fro in the Earth and walking up and down in it, ever since 
the Month of November last and I am informed Jos. Fay and a Col. 
Roberson ^ from the grants is in the Citty, but I have not seen Fay. 

A Col. Olcott and Mr. Woodword are now here and their views appeare 
to me verry agreable. I am of opinion They by no means wish to be 
seperated from the state of N. H. N. Y'rk with their usual industry will 
exert every nerve to bring their purposes to pass, but what will be the isue 
is to me uncertain ^ 

The state will soon be called upon to fill up their Regiments so as to 
compleat about 1200 men, and to furnish their proportion of supplies for 
the Army, that we may be in a situation to carry on a Vigorous campaign 
the ensuing Year, or to Negociate to advantage if peace should be pro- 
posed/ .... 

I am Dear Sir at 2 oClook in the morning Your most Obedient and 
verry Humble servant 

Nathl. Peabody 

39. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull),^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 8th 1780. 
Sir, 

.... There is every reason to beleive Sir, that Spain will make a 
serious diversion in the Floridas, to which perhaps we can have no objec- 
tion provided she does not extend her views on the Missisippi beyond the 
Latitude of 31, nor to an exclusive navigation of that river." 

The Convention at this place, have concluded to adjourn to the ist 
Tuesday of April, and to give notice thereof to Virginia that she may 
then send commissioners if she thinks proper or otherwise let her deter- 
mination be known. ^ .... 

40. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada. Feby. 8th 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

Your Obliging favour of the 27th of Deer. Came to hand last evening 
And you may Depend upon my investigating the matters you refer to 

of utilizing the proceeds of sales by Bradford for the completion of a ship at Ports- 
mouth. See the letters to Bradford and to John Langdon in C. O. Paullin, Out-Letters 
of the Marine Committee, passim. Cf. no. 123, post. 

3 Jonas Fay and Moses Robinson. 

* See the Journals, Feb. i, 7, also no. 32, ante, and nos. 40, 43, 58, post. 

^ With regard to the quotas of troops see no. 11, note 2, ante; cf. nos. 40, 41, 45, 
post. Concerning the question of supplies see nos. 42, 43, note 3, post. 

[39]^ Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 54; Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, XL 54. 

- Ellsworth had previously summarized the news from Georgia conveyed in letters 
from Governor Walton and General Lincoln. See no. 37, ante; cf. no. 41, post. 

^ See no. 30, ante. An extract from the minutes of the convention, with the sev- 
eral resolutions, Feb. 7 and 8, signed by Samuel Osgood as secretary, is in Mass. Hist. 
Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IIL 15. 

[40]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (marked "No. 22"). 



28 Continental Congress 

without loss of time, and shall advise you of the true State of Facts so 
far as I shall be able to obtain them. 

Mr. Livermore arrived here last Saturday, in good time as the Ver- 
mont afifair is soon to come on before Congress. Vermont refuse to refer 
the Decission of the Matters in Dispute to be determined in the mode 
prescribed by the Resolves of Congress what operation that will have in 
the premises is uncertain, their agents are here with Powers to support 
their Independance and Enter into the Union, But not being Clothed with 
a weding Garment can they be received or even heard by Congress. 

Agents are here from the Inhabitants on both sides of Connecticut 
River, who seem to be in favour of the State of New Hamp'e which is 
not a Disagreable Circumstance in our favour " 

Congress are about to Call upon the several States, to fill up their Bat- 
tallions in the Continental Army and to furnish their respective Quotas 
of Supplies for the Army, and no time ought to be Lost to accomplish so 
important an undertaking, as much will depend upon the Exertion of the 
People, in preparing for the next Campaign. A prospect of pursuing the 
war with Success, or Negotiating a peace to advantage demand the same 
Noble Exertions on our part. The Quota of men to be Compleated by 
N. Hamp'e will be about 1200 men in all.^ .... 

Our finances still remain in a deranged situation which greatly em- 
barrasses every public proceeding 

41. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Febr'y 8, 80. 
Mr. Lowell, whose Opinion has had weight with me, expressed him- 
self when here against the Delegates communicating to any Lidividual 
of the respective Assemblies of their States what they did not think right 
to deliver officially to the Govern [ment] — but Laws of Secresy are so 
imposed at Times in Chesnutt Street that Communications can only go to 
Colleagues without glaring Criminality. I am sure it would be best for 
the Governm't of every State in the Confederacy to know what we know 
here. We must cut Throats another year at least, and we ought to do it 
vigorously. F and S " will persist in strenuous Cooperation for the Pur- 
pose of securing our Independ'ce and indemnifying themselves. An armed 
mediation is not improbable, in which Case the last mediatorial ofifers of 
Spain may be taken up again so that Britain ought not at the End of the 
next Campaign to hold Possession of any Part of the Territory of the 
U. S's. Our Enemies do not meet with Countenance in Europe yet, but 
some Powers there may be obliged by secret Treaties, on certain Events, 
to interfere against our Interests, tho' unwillingly; dissagreable Terms 

- See nos. 22, 38, ante, and nos. 43, 58, jyost. 

3 See no. 38, ante, and nos. 41, 42, post. Holten records in his Diary under Feb. 5 
(Saturday), "Mr Livermore arrived here from New Hampshire". He had been sent 
primarily for the purpose of assisting in the management of the Vermont affair. See 
vol. IV., nos. 633, note 2, 6^2, note 2. 

[41]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 France and Spain. 



February, lySo 29 

of Peace or additional Force against us and our Allies may therefore 
become a necessary Alternative. 

F is extremely desirous that we should put matters upon such a foot- 
ing in regard to Spain that a lasting alliance may be formed ; and hints at 
4 points 

1 a precise and invariable western boundary to the U. S's. 

2 The exclusive navig'n of Mississipi to S. 

3 The Possess'n of the Floridas. 

4 The Lands on the left or eastern side of the Miss. 

On the first S thinks we should go no farther west than was permitted 
by the royal Proclam'n of 1763. 

On the 2d she thinks we have no Right because we have no Territory 
situated on the River. 

On the third as it is probable S will conquer the Flor[i]das during this 
war every Cause of Dispute between us and her should be removed. 

On the 4th that the Lands lying on the East Side which were prohibited 
by the Proclamation above named to be settled by the then Provinces are 
the Property of the K'g of Engl'd and proper Objects against which 
Spain may proceed for a permanent Conquest. S conceives that these 
States have no Right to those Lands, not having possessed them nor hav- 
ing a Claim in the Right of the Sovereign whose Gov't we have abjured. 
On this last we shall assuredly dififer — the Others are all in a fair Train. ^ 
We are standing stiff for Mass. that she sh'd not be still overburthened 
by Quota of Troops. We have the Ratio of Sepr. 76 preferred to March 
79, but still it is not right; however it will not. I fear, be altered at this 
very critical and late hour of providing for a vigorous Campaign. 6.070 
will be requested from you in a day or two. I do not know that we can 
possibly get an Army unless Mass. perseveres in furnishing what I know 
she has judged her Z)/.yproportion.^ .... 

[P. S.] Majr. Osgood will be on his way home in a day or two. 

42. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, February 9th, 1780. 
Sir: 

You will, before this arrives, have received some resolutions of Con- 
gress for recruiting the Army, a business of the highest importance at all 
times, but now peculiarly interesting by reason of the critical situation of 
public affairs, which requires the next campaign to be prosecuted with 
much vigor as may entirely expel the Enemy from every part of the 

United States The proportions of the several States are far from 

being estimated by any precise or satisfactory rule; and you will perceive 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 25, 28, 31 ; cf. nos. 22, 39. ante. 

* See the Journals. Jan. 24, Feb. i, 4, 5, 9, and nos. 11 (note 2), 38, 40, ante, 
and no. 43, note 3, post. In the margin Lovell sets down the quotas of the several states, 
but has the Rhode Island quota at 860 instead of 810. and the Pennsylvania quota at 4805 
instead of 4855. The Rhode Island delegates, in their letter of Feb. 15 (no. 49, post), 
do not mention that there had been such an alteration. 

[42] 1 N. C. State Recs., XV. 334. The letter is signed by Penn, Burke, and Allen Jones. 



30 Continental Congress 

a resolution for an equitable adjustment of the expense attending the 
raising and providing for such Troops as shall be found to be beyond 
the true proportions. 

The ideas we have of the circumstances of the State we have the honor 
to represent determined us to endeavor to obtain a resolution for making 
all the efforts of the States for raising men, whether as Regulars or Mili- 
tia, a common Expense. We remembered the vast sums disbursed by the 
State, and vast expenses incurred in calling out the Militia, and in mak- 
ing extraordinary exertions in a War whose object is common and whose 
operations, perhaps, have been less threatening to her than to her neigh- 
bor. We also foresaw that she must make still greater Exertions in con- 
sequence of the Enemy's having pointed their hostilities principally against 
the Southern States ; and we deem it our duty. Especially as doubts were 
thrown out in Debate, to take the sense of Congress directly on the ques- 
tion in order that the General Assembly may be fully informed on a sub- 
ject so interesting to their Constituents. We have failed in our motion, 
as you will see by the enclosed Extract from the Journals.'^ The States 
who voted against it are very apprehensive of very great and perhaps un- 
necessary expense being the consequence of such a resolution, were it to 
have retrospect, but seem to have no material objection to its future oper- 
ations. As our State is much interested in the Restoration operations, we 
did not choose to move it in that form without more particular Instruc- 
tions from the State.^ 

- See the Journals, Feb. S, 9. Cf. no. 72, post. " Congress agreed to resolutions for 
filling up the army" (Samuel Holten, Diary, Feb. 9). 

^ On Feb. 8 William Sharpe, in attendance during the greater part of 1779. rendered 
to the committee of accounts of the North Carolina assembly an account for his services 
and expenses during that year. The account (Library of Congress, Personal, Accession 
2009) follows : 

William Sharpe to the Committee of Accounts of the North Carolina Assembly 

The State of North Carolina to William Sharpe Dr. 

15th March 1779 set out from my own house in order to attend Congress 

To paid expences traveling to Philadelphia 537. Dollars 

To paid for Boarding and Lodging from the 12th April to loth May 

four weeks at 60 Dollars for self and 30 for Servant 360. 

To paid Ditto from the loth May to 7th June 4 weeks at 75 Dollars 

for self and 30 for Servant 420. 

To paid Ditto from 7th June to 5th July 4 weeks at 100 Dol : for self 

and 40 for Servant 560. 

To paid Ditto from the 5th July to the 2d August four weeks at 100 

Dollars for self and 40 for Servant 560. 

To paid Ditto from the 2d Augt. to the 30th four weeks at 100 Dol : 

for self and 40 for Servant 560. 

To paid for Ditto from the 30th Augt. to 27th Sepr. four weeks at 

100 Dol : for self and 40 for Servant 560 

To paid for Ditto from the 27th Sepr. to 2Sth Octr. four weeks at 

100 Dol for self and 40 for Servant 560 

To paid Ditto from the 25. Octr. to the 22d Novr. four weeks at 

100 Dol for self and 40 for Servant 560 

To paid for Ditto from the 22d Novr. to 14th Deer, three weeks at 

100 Dol : for self and 40 for Servant 420 5097 

To paid for 4 Gal : Rum at 30 Dol : 120. 4 Gal : at 48 Dol : 192 312 

To paid 4 gal : at 53^ 2i35<? — 4 gal : at 60 Dol : 240 453/^ 

To paid 3 Gal: at 60 Dol: 180. 2 Gal: at 60 Dol 120 ^ Gal: at 60 
Dol : 30 330 lOQSVs- 



February, 1/80 31 

43. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 9th Feby. 1780. 
Sir, 

The great Interest which our State have in the speedy Determination 
of the Controversy between it and the neighbouring States, as well as 

To paid for 2 Gal : Wine at 535^3 106^1. 4 Gal : at 75 Dol : 300 406^. 

To paid 2 Gal Do. 80 Dol : 160. and i Gal at 100 260. 666?^. 

To paid for 18 lb Loaf Sugar 216 Dol: Limes and juce at sundry 

times 367 583- 

To paid for washing at various times from 5 to 12 Dol. per Doz 395. 

To paid a Barber at sundry times 317- 

To paid for Stationry News papers and sundry other small articles . . 524. 

To paid for one Cord of Hickory firewood 2143^ dol : Candles 

96 Dol : 310^ 21295^ 

To paid for one Suit of superfine Cloath 5 Shirts 5 Stocks 2 pair Silk 
Stockings 3 pair thread 2 oair Shoes one hat and a Suit for my 
Servant ". 5742 5742 

To paid for keeping two Horses in a Continental stable from the 12th 

April to 1st June 49 days at 6 Dol : 294. 

From the ist of June to ist Sepr. 92 days at 8 Dol : 736. 

From the first Sepr. to 14th Dec. 104 days at 10 Dol : 1040. 2070 

To paid my expences with a Servant and two Horses on my Journey 
home from the 14th Deer, to the 15th January 2464 2464 

192645^ 

Cr. By a Warrant on the Continental Treasurer Dated in May 1779 2500 Dol : 

By Ditto in August 4000. 

By Ditto in October 2500. 

Ditto in Novr 3000. 

Ditto in Deer 350O. 

Total 15500. 

I beg leave to observe to the Committee of the general assembly, that I am not pos- 
sessed, nor have I ever seen the Resolutions of the Legislature relative to the Salaries 
or allowance to their Delegat[es] in Congress. Inasmuch as I am a stranger to the 
mode of settling such accounts at present, I have therefore stated the within in such a 
manner that the various dates will evince what time I have been in public service; so 
that it can be settled by a fixed salary or otherwise. 

Every Gentleman will see that it would be impracticable to produce vouchers for many 
of the within mentioned expenditures. Were it not for sporting with the time of the 
Committ[ee] I could exhibit an account shewing what every dollar of my expenditures 
was for, and could manifest my expending many hundreds more than I have charged 
herein. Altho the expenditures are nominally large yet when it is divided by thirty, which 
is below the average price of articles in Philadelphia, it will give but 642 Dollars which 
no person engaged in public business could live decently on for the space of ten months 
even before the present revolution. 

Whether the Legislature will make me any consideration for my time and service, 
remains with them ; be that as it may I have the consolation to reflect that to the utmost 
reach of my capacity I have endeavored to serve my country. 

With great respect, I have the honor to be 

Gentlemen 

Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. 

Wm. Sharpe. 

Feby. 8th, 1780. 

[43] IN. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 133 (copy). The letter is signed by Floyd, 
Livingston, and L'Hommedieu. 

7 



32 Continental Congress 

their own refractory Subjects in the North eastern Counties, lead us to 
take the earhest Opportunity of laying before you all that has passed in 
Congress relative to that Business, and to represent the disagreeable Situ- 
ation in which we are placed by being unfurnished with the Act of Sub- 
mission, and the necessary Materials for Defence. 

We have ordered the Papers to be copied, and shall enclose them to- 
gether with the entrys of them on the Journals. You will not be surprized 
that we made no Motion upon the Occasion, and contented ourselves with 
general Declarations, and a successful Opposition to their being com- 
mitted, which was very much laboured. Had we done otherwise we shd. 
necessarily have brought on the Question — have your Legislature agreed 
to submit the matter? Are you ready for Trial? As both must have been 
answered in the negative, it would have put it in the Power of the other 
States, and even of the People upon the Grants, to insist upon an imme- 
diate hearing agreeable to the Terms of the Resolutions of Congress.^ 

A report now laying before Congress for Quotas in kind for the Use 
of Army, and remiting two thirds of the tax to be raised to the State 
which shall furnish it. If this shd. pass and we should be able to make it 
retrospect we are confident that it will appear that we have already fur- 
nished all that will be demanded, we are anxious to be furnished with 
this Account, and the Prices at which taken as soon as possible.^ .... 

44. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Feby 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act 
of Congress of the 9th Instant .... 

Similar Copies of the Act enclosed are forwarded to all the States ^ 
except Georgia and Congress have under Consideration a general Regu- 
lation to make provision in future if necessary to recruit the Army annu- 
ally in the month of January.^ 

P S. Your letter of the 30 Jany. hath been duly received 

2 Besides the letter of Fay, Robinson, and Bradley, Vermont agents, presented 
Feb. I, and the representation of Olcott and Woodward, agents for the northern dis- 
trict of the New Hampshire Grants, dated Feb. 5 and read Feb. 7, the Vermont ques- 
tion was also brought before Congress Feb. 7 through the presentation by Samuel 
Livermore, who had just arrived, of an act of the New Hampshire legislature. The 
Vermont documents are in the Clintnn Papers, V. 483-489. Cf. nos. 32, 38, 40, ante, and nos. 
58, 81, 90, 93, post. 

8 A committee for estimating supplies and apportioning quotas was appointed 
Dec. 17, 1779, and made a report Jan. 12, 1780. The report was considered in committee 
of the whole Jan. 17 and referred to a committee of one from each state. For further 
proceedings on the subject see the Journals, Feb. 9, 15-25, and nos. 38, 40, 41, 42, ante, 
54, 55, 57, 58, 60, 65, 66, 67, 69. 70. 71, 87, post. 

[44]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 294. 

2 The circular letter to the states is no. 45, post. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 24, Mar. 11. 



February, 1/80 33 

45. The President of Congress to the Several States,^ 

Circular. 

Philadelphia Feby. 10, 1780. 
Sir J 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 9th Instant ascertaining the number of men exclusive of Commis- 
sioned Officers for the Continental Army the next Campaign to be 35,21 1, 
which Congress deem necessary for the service of the present Year the 
Quota of each State being specified in the Act .... 

You will observe that all the Men belonging to each State respectively 
now in the public service and whose time of Service does not expire be- 
fore the last day of September next, whether they compose the Battal- 
lions in the line of the several States, those of the additional Corps in- 
cluding the guards, the artillery and horse, or the Regimented artificers 
in the department of the Quarter Master General and Commissary Gen- 
eral of Military Stores, are to be credited to their respective States and 
accounted as part of their Quotas and each State is required to furnish 
their respective Deficiencies of their Quotas as above stated on or before 
the first Day of April next 

You may expect to receive as soon as possible from the Commander in 
Chief or his order, an accurate return of the Troops now in service be- 
longing to the state which will ascertain the deficiency to be furnished by 
the States respectively agreeable to the act enclosed. 

As the Quotas apportioned to each State may be supposed not to be 
exactly Just you will observe Congress have made provision to pay the 
Expence any State hath incurred or may incur by furnishing more than 
their Just proportion of men 

It is recommended to each State respectively in the strongest Terms 
punctually to comply with this Requisition by furnishing their respective 
Quotas of Men compleat without loss of Time. 

Many powerful motives too obvious to need enumeration conspire to 
urge the propriety, policy, and necessity of having a respectable army 
ready to take the field early in the spring. 

Vigorous exertions and a respectable Army in the field are the most 
sure means to prevent the necessity of another Campaign on the one hand, 
or on the other to crown it with the desired success and put a period to 
the Contest upon honourable Terms. ^ 

46. James Lovell to Henry Laurens.^ 

Feb. 1 2th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The great Points of recruiting the Army and providing Sup- 
plies for it, have prevented a Completion of Parts of Business that you 

[45] 1 Library of Congress. President's Letter-Book, p. 292; ibid., Force Trans., Trum- 
bull. XL; Mass. Arch., CCIL 50 (copy at p. 56); Mass. Hist. Soc.. C 81 A 151 (to 
New Hampshire) ; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL 58; N. C. Hist. 
Comm., Caswell Papers; N. C. State Recs., XV. 335. 

2C/. nos. II, 38, 40-43, ante, and nos. 49, 54, 55, post. 

[46]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 7129. 



34 Continental Congress 

wrote about. But I really hope they will speedily be finished and sent for- 
ward to you." We shall certainly fight another Year. Holland will there- 
fore probably not treat of Alliance but will nevertheless place no Ob- 
struction in yr. Way of borrowing Money from Individuals. Spain wants 
all the East Side of Mississipi. Here I think we must absolutely refuse. 
Her other Wishes are complied with already in the discretionary Powers 
to Mr. Jay.^ .... 

47. The President of Congress to George Walton.^ 

Philada. Feby. 14, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter and also a letter from the Speaker of your Assembly which 
were forwarded by Capt. Clement Nash have been duly received and laid 
before Congress, though Capt. Nash was stopped by Illness as he informs 
me by letter in Virginia.^ 

Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the nth Instant ex- 
pressing their Sense of the exertions, firmness and Zeal manifested by the 
State of Georgia under all their difficulties, and likewise approving of the 
plan adopted by the State of Georgia for reducing the four Battallions 
and having for their Quota the ensuing Campaign one Battallion of In- 
fantry and one of Cavalry. 

That the supernumerary Officers be considered as and entitled to the 
Privileges of other supernumeraries in the Continental Army. 

I am also to inform you that a general Exchange of Prisoners is now 
negotiating and I have informed General Washington of the Case of 
Colo. Elbert which will have due attention paid to it, altho' Congress can- 
not at present promote Colo. Elbert in the Continental Line.^ 

By the act of Congress of the 12th Instant also herewith enclosed you 
will observe that a Warrent is issued in favour of the Governor and 
Executive Council of Georgia in the Treasurer of Virginia for three 
hundred thousand Dollars and the Board of War are to take the proper 
Measures to convey the same to Georgia. The other six thousand Dollars 
mentioned in the Act are advanced out of the Continental Treasury here 

2 Laurens had been appointed (Oct. 21) commissioner to Holland and left Con- 
gress Nov. 9 for Charleston. See Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 352, 353. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 28, Oct. 13, 1779, Jan. 31, 1780; also no. 49, post. 
[47] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 299. 

2 These letters were laid before Congress Feb. 3. The speaker of the assembly 
at the time (Nov. 30) was William Glascock, the governor (Dec. 15) was George 
Walton. On Jan. 4 however Richard Howly was chosen governor and a few days later 
(Jan. 11), in view of the probable necessity of his having to flee the state to escape 
capture by the British, he was elected a delegate to Congress. See his credentials in the 
Journals, July 6. Capt. Clement Nash, the bearer of the despatches, had journeyed as far 
as Cumberland Court House in Virginia, whence, on Jan. 23, he had sent on the despatches 
by John Foster (see no. 48, post). An important part of the proceedings of the Georgia 
assembly transmitted by Governor Walton was an expression of the general hostility 
toward General Mcintosh and a request for his removal. This feeling was pointed out 
by Walton in his letter, and more particularly in the letter of the speaker. See no. 
53, post. 

^ Col. Samuel Elbert, taken prisoner at Briar Creek Mar. 3, 1779, was shortly 
afterward exchanged. 



February, 1780 35 

and paid into the Hands of John Foster the Messenger whom Capt. Nash 
sent forward from Virginia with the Despatches and who now returns 
with these * 

48. The President of Congress to Clement Nash/ 

Philada. Feby 14, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter by John Foster together with despatches from Georgia have 
been duly received and laid before Congress, and the same Messenger now 
returns, charged with this letter, with a Number of Despatches of Im- 
portance for North and South Carolina and Georgia. 

The Despatches are of such Consequence they must not be delayed one 
Day and if you are not able to proceed immediately you must see them 
forwarded with the greatest Despatch and Safety so as to prevent any 
delay or Miscarriage. 

I have procured to be advanced out of the Continental Treasury six 
thousand dollars and paid to the Bearer John Foster agreeable to your 
Request also procured him a pair of Shoes and Saddle bags.^ 

49. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 15th, 1780.^ 
Sir, 

Congress have come to sundry resolutions, determining the number of 
privates of which the army is to consist, and adjusting the quotas of the 
States, which we suppose are sent to the States; but as it is possible that 
they may not reach your Excellency so early as this letter, we will just 
mention that the whole number of privates is to be thirty five thousand, 
and our quota eight hundred and ten. We objected to the quota assigned 
to our state, and proposed that it should not exceed seven hundred men ; 
but were not able to procure any reduction. Several other States made 
similar objections : but it was thought too late to alter the adjustments 
and set the matter afloat : and so the report stands as it was offer'd by the 
board of war, only with the qualifying resolution added to it which you 
will take notice of.^ 

* President Huntington wrote to Governor Rutledge the same day enclosing the 
resolve of Feb. 12 requesting South Carolina to supply the military chest (Letter-Book, 
p. 297), and to General Lincoln conveying the resolves of Feb. Ii and 12, adding with 
respect to that concerning the reduction of the Georgia battalions : " This Act of Con- 
gress so far as it differs from any former Act relative to the same Subject you may have 
received you will consider as superseding the former." Ibid., p. 298. 
[48I1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 300. 

2 See the JoxmiaJs. Feb. 11, 12, and nos. 47, ante, S3, post; also Capt. Clement 
Nash to Governor Caswell, Mar. 6, in N. C. State Recs.. XV. 350. 

[49] 1 R. L Arch.. Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 70 (signed by Ellery and 
Collins") ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 273. 

2 A letter from Ellery to Governor Greene Feb. 15, relative to the regulating con- 
vention held in Philadelphia in January, which Ellery attended on behalf of his state, 
is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 272. 

^ See no. 45, ante. 



36 Continental Congress 

We received a letter last Saturday from Mr. Jay, our minister to the 
Court of Madrid, informing us that the Confederacy, oflf the banks of 
Newfoundland, met with a violent Storm which carried away her masts 
and Bowsprit, and obliged her to put away for Martinico, where she ar- 
rived the 19th of December. His letter was dated the 20th.'* .... 

50. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Feby. 15th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Soon after our last Letter was sent off, Mr. Samuel Osgood arrived 
here from Boston, who, together with Mr. Gerry was authorized to repre- 
sent the State of Massachusetts in the Convention for regulating prices, 
and Mr. EUery also received a Commission from the State of Rhode 
Island. Whereupon it was thought advisable for the Convention to re- 
assemble, and after meeting several times, they came to some Resolutions, 
which we have the Hon'r now to transmit to your Excellency. It is un- 
certain whether any measures for limiting prices will be finally adopted. 
If the State of Connecticut shall think fit to pass a Law for that purpose, 
in compliance with the recommendation of Congress, We think it would 
be advisable to suspend the operation of it, until they are advised that the 
other States have passed similar Laws. 

We hope that some Measures will be soon adopted for introducing 
a stable Medium of Trade, that will render a limitation of prices un- 
necessary. 

Congress received a letter from Mr. Jay last Saturday, dated at Mar- 
tineco, the 20th of December, giving an account that they arrived at that 
place the 19th of Deer. That the Confederacy, in which they sailed had 
lost all her Masts and rigging, and was other wise much Damaged ; by a 
letter from Mr. Bingham, we are informed Mr. Jay and Mr. Gerrard 
sailed from thence for France in a French Ship, the 25th of Deer. 

We need not acquaint your Excellency that the State of Connecticut 
will not be represented in Congress, after the first day of March next, 
unless a new Delegation arrives." 

51. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia 15th Feby. 1780. 
My dear sir, 

I am much obliged to You for your Favour of the 20th Deer, by Major 
Osgood, who reached this City the 25th January, and left it for Boston 

* Jay's letter of Dec. 20 is not mentioned in the Journals, but Holten records under 
Feb. 12, " Congress reed, a letter from Air Jay ". One of Dec. 22 was however read 
Feb. 17, and letters of Dec. 24, 25 (two), 26, and 27 were read May i. Except the last, 
these letters are in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 423, 435, 436, 446, 448. On p. 449 is 
a letter from Carmichael of Dec. 27, and on p. 450 a letter of that date from Jay to 
Franklin. 

[50] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, XI. 64 (signed by Sherman 
and Ellsworth). 

- In October, 1779, the Connecticut assembly renewed the commission of the dele- 
gates then in attendance until Alar, i, 1780. See the Journals, Nov. 26, 1779, and Alar, i, 
1780. 

[51 ]i N. Y. Pub. Lib., Sam.uel Adams Papers. 



February, lySo 37 

the I2th Instant, from him You will be able to collect a more particular 
account of the Proceedings of the Convention,- than what is contained in 
the Paper inclosed, and also some Information respecting Congress, who 
are at present engaged in levying a Tax in kind for the next Campaign. 

I am happy to find that the Children of our late worthy Friend General 
Warren are in better Circumstances than what were represented in the 
proposed Subscription, but am nevertheless desirous that something may 
be done for their honorable Support, by Congress, the State, or private 
Benefactors, the Intentions of Congress will soon be known, and should 
the Sense of the State be taken on the Subject, it may then be ascertained 
whether any and what further provission will be necessary for the pur- 
pose mentioned. In Case of a private Subscription I really wish that it 
may originate in the State and that we may have an Opportunity of pro- 
moting it ; but cannot consent to joyn in one that in its Origin or Nature 
is disrespectful to the State.^ 

Fehy. i8th 

I have detained this Letter a Day or two to give you some Information 

respecting the L e of P a * which are laying the Foundation of 

what appears to me an undue, indirect, but extensive Influence, and, if so, 
will require the attention of the other States ; but the Business of Con- 
gress respects Matters of great Consequence to the three eastern States 
and will not admit for the present of other Speculations. Tvly best Re- 
spects to Mrs. and Miss Adams, the Doctor and all other Friends and be 
assured that I remain sir yours sincerely, 

E Gerry 

52. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Carlisle i6th Feby., 1780. 
Dear General, 

I cannot pass this natural Opportunity without expressing to you my 
present uneasy feellings and anxious apprehensions, on the distracted and 
melancholly State of our finances — I might as well say of our publick 
affairs — but my dear Sir the hour has Overtaken us. when the disease 
we mean has extended itself to many, very many, familys and individuals 
in their limitted circles of private life, as well as to that of our great pub- 
lick concern. This grievance now obvious to every man of common can- 
dour and Observation, has for some time past been the Subject of my 
letters whether to Gentn. in. or out of Congress — together with such 
remedies as appear best adapted to our recovery, which in crude detail 

2 The convention for the limitation of prices. See no. 6, note 2, ante. Maj. Samuel 
Osgood had attended the convention as a delegate from Massachusetts. Holten records 
in his Diary under Feb. 12, " Major Osgood set out for Boston". Essex Inst. Hist. Colls.. 
LVI. 89. 

^ Concerning the measures taken for the relief of General Warren's children see 
vol. III., p. 415 n., and vol. IV., no. 656, and p. 523 n. 
* The Legislature of Pennsylvania. 
[52]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVI. 



38 Continental Congress 

and without waiting for argument to support them, I shall now submit to 
your consideration also — forgive me good Sir you have considered them 
already, and that I presume with full conviction that nothing else (except 
a speedy Peace on which we ought not to presume) can possibly save us. 
The first, and fundamental remidy is the Regulation of Prices through 
all our states by the publick Authority of Lazv. 2d, a Speedy determined 
and judicious Reformation of mistakes or abuses, in the two great depart- 
ments of the Staff, including in it a Retrenchment of Expences Offices and 
Officers — and this by the by, cannot in my Opinion be effected otherwise 
than by several States, or their Commissioners perhaps best appointed in 
their respective Counties. 3d, The laying in of certain quantities of Grain, 
at the expence of the Owners in such Magazines as may be appointed, for 
which Carriage a moderate Miliage may be allowed, except in the dis- 
tance of five miles, The Grain to be delivered at the regulated price, or 
pass in whole, or in part of the owners Tax. These measures at once sim- 
ple, regular and virtuous, aided by such taxation as the people can bear, 
which by the way must be greatly lessened to what it now is — and by 
Domestick Loans, will by the Divine blessing carry us on until a foreign 
Loan can have time to Operate, but if these Steps be declined I dread to 
mention the approaching consequences. As for the Chimerically refined 
notions of Finance which some men have thrown out, they must be con- 
sidered as so many Phantoms. The plain highway of Regulation by Law, 
appears now by fatal experience and dint of necessity the only rational 
line of our direction. — and however doubtfull many have been that such 
a Law cou'd not be put in execution, the more disinterested people here 
are lamenting the delay of this measure, and grieved to hear that very 
lately Virginia had sent no Commissiofnelrs to assist in binding up 
the bleeding wounds of this Country — shall they bleed to death, altho' 
made with our hands! is not this a kind of National Suicide? Shall poor 
jersey be constrained to repeal her virtuous Law? have we now any 
known value annexed to our currency even for the space of one Week. 
Is not all rational calculation at an end, and the use of figures become 
futile, are we not well pictured by a Ship on the Ocean without Helm or 
Rudder left to the mercy of the waves! But thanks to god only who com- 
mands the waves of our political Sea and may yet vouchsafe to take the 
helm into his Omnipotent hand. He reigns, let every honest heart and 
genuine Whigg be Glad ! A wise and vigorous regulation must prove 
to our affairs at present as the main spring of a Watch to the wheels, 
no matter how many lesser amendments are made in our finances or how 
proper in themselves, if not fixed on this basis, the disease will recur — 
palliate they may and but a little. Cure they can not, having no radical 
powers. As to the Merchantile rule or Hackneyed Maxim that Trade only 
can regulate itself, I can scarsely speak of it with patience, but shall only 
say that Obstructed as our commerce is abroad by the Enemy, and by 
Speculators and Monopolizers, perverted at home, that general rule is 
with us highly exceptionable, and none but the interested or unobservant 
part of our Countrymen can with any propriety plead it in opposition to a 



February, ij8o 39 

regulation by Law, which however arduous, is compelled by the present 
state of affairs and justified by necessity, as is every act, whether Na- 
tional or personal, that has virtue for it's motive and end.^ We have very 
little news, for which I refer you to your Aid De Camp, And am Dear 
General with the tender of Mrs. Armstrongs best respects and mine to 
your Lady and Son, and congratulations on the presence of an Old friend 
at their fireside this very hard Winter, 

Most Cordially Yours, 

John Armstrong 

53. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Feby. 16, 1780.^ 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress has taken so much notice of Govr. Geo Walton's Com- 
plaints about Brig Mcintosh as to inform him his Service in the southern 
Department is dispensed with, conveying to him a Copy of the Governor's 
Letter and a Paragraph of one from the Speaker of the Georgia Assem- 
bly.' .... 

I hope there has been no printed mention of my going abroad. Your 
News Papers are remarkable lately for more groundless Paragraphs than 
most others. I have been told of my name having thus got in. But I am 
far from Embarking and I own I am pleased, since I find how much 
Cabal enters into the Business.* We are to discuss next Sat'day the Propo- 
sition for appointing a Resident with his official Powers to go to France 
instead of a Secy, to the Embassy.^ This will dignify the Place enough 
for R R Livingston. And I am somewhat inclined to think that our Af- 
fairs here make several wish to be away from the fatigue which they 
cause. I do not like the Scale of Influence abroad should have Weights 

2 Cf. no. 21, ante, and no. 95, post. 
[53]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 " The Hon. the Medical com't met in my chamber." Samuel Holten, Diary, 
Feb. 16. 

2 See no. 47, note 2, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 11, 15; also Lincoln to Wash- 
ington Mar. 24, in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IL 418. Sept. 6, 1780, a letter 
from William Glascock, dated May 12, was read in Congress, stating that General 
Mcintosh had shown him the extract from the letter of Nov. 30, 1779, which, in accord- 
ance with the directions of Congress, had been transmitted to Mcintosh by President 
Huntington. Mcintosh had declared, according to Glascock, that this extract was not 
only a forgery but that he did not believe any such sentiment concerning Mcintosh 
existed in Georgia. On the following day (Sept. 7) Walton, who had meanwhile taken 
his seat in Congress, drew up a memorial which he presented Sept. 8, explaining how the 
letter purporting to have been signed by Glascock as speaker came to be written, and 
asserting further that personally he was a friend to Mcintosh. Glascock's letter and 
Walton's memorial were referred to a committee which brought in a report Sept. 19, and on 
Sept. 25 the act of Feb. 15 recalling Mcintosh was confirmed. Subsequently (July 16, 
1781) the act was repealed. 

* See vol. IV., nos. 569, 581, 684, 685, 688, 695. For Adams's comments see his 
letter of Mar. 5 (IVritings, IV. 180). 

5 The motion was made by Mathews of South Carolina Feb. 15. The question 
does not appear to have been taken up Saturday, Feb. 19, according to assignment, but 
on Apr. 17 it was taken into consideration and defeated. Two states (New York and 
South Carolina) voted solidly in the affirmative, New Hampshire gave one vote (Pea- 
body) in the affirmative, and all other votes were negative. 



40 Continental Congress 

from New York rather than from some other State. But I shall not en- 
cline to stand against R R L in the Nomination for the new office tho I 
will always allow myself to stand as a Check upon G'r M — s.^ 

54. Abraham Clark to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly 

(Caleb Camp)/ 

Philadelphia, February 17, 1780.^ 
Sir, 

The convention for regulating prices have adjourned till April, and I 
fear the attempt will prove abortive, Virginia seems to hang back, no 
members have attended from thence, and as far as I can learn none have 
been appointed, and their Legislature stands adjourned till May.^ I shud- 
der at the prospect before us, a Vigorous War to prosecute, while our 
money reduced almost to nothing, is still depreciating with rapidity. The 
current exchange here Between hard money and paper is from 45 to 50 
for one. In the market a paper Dollar is estimated at present at one penny 
and will soon be less than a half penny in all probability. 

Congress have now under Consideration the apportionment of Sup- 
plies for the Army to be required of each state the present year. Our 
Quota at present stands at 18,000 hundred weight of Beef or pork, 10,000 
barrels of Flour, 3,758 bushels of Salt, 3,500 Tons of hay, 30,000 bushels 
of Corn, Oats or buckwheat. The Estimate of Prices as follows. Flour 
4^ dollars per hundred ; Summer fatted Beef 53^ doll'r pr. neat hundred, 
fall fatted Do. 65^ dollars ; stall fed killed after Jany., 7>^ Dollars, fresh 
pork, 7 dollars per neat hundred ; Salted pork, 22 dollars per barr'l con- 
taining 200 lbs.. Salted Beef 17^ doll'rs per barr'l containing 240 lbs.; 
Indian Corn ^ dollar per bush'l, oats 5^, rie i, Buckwheat 7^ dollar per 
bush'l, best first crop hay 15 doll'rs per ton, Rum i^ doll'rs per Gall., 
Salt 3 dollars pr. bush'l. 

For my part I dislike the plan altogether, as purchases ought to be made 
where most Convenient having regard to the places where they are to be 
consumed and the prices in the several states which must depend upon the 
seasons in them, but I am assured the plan is agreeable to the wishes of 
our Legislature, by whose Opinion I shall always be governed. The Salt 
I fear will be procured with difficulty in our State, but as the prices above 
are all Estimated in Specie, and that article set at 3 dollars, I dare not 
refuse it to our state, Specially as other states wish for that article and 
offer to take it from us in exchange for flour or Other provisions at the 
Estimated prices, but as Salt is much higher estimated than any other 
article, I think we may exchange provisions for it to much greater ad- 
vantage by private Contracts; or perhaps, by promoting the manufactory 

^ Gouverneur Morris. 
[54]^ N. J. State Lib.; A^. 7. Rev. Corr., p. 212; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXVL 325. 

2 The date in N. J. Rev. Corr. is Feb. 7. 

3 See nos. 2t„ 28, 30, ante, 60, 66, 67, 71, post. 



February, lySo 41 

of Iron on public acct. we may procure that article of salt in exchange 
for Iron, and save our provisions. In Case our Legislature shall desire 
to be freed from procuring the Salt by taking upon them the supply of 
other articles Equivalent in Value as Estimated, by signifying their 
pleasure thereon, I am persuaded the matter can be effected. 

Thus far I had wrote before Congress took up the business of supplies 
this day. They had before gone through the Quotas and now took into 
consideration the Prices as reported by the Comm'ee, and have Agreed to 
the price of flour as above mentioned. The next under Consideration was 
the Price of Beef, this is not finished but will I believe pass agreable to 
the report, many of us would be willing to Alter some Articles did we 
not see that it would derainge all we had before done without any Mate- 
rial Advantage, so that the prices I have mentioned, tho' only as reported 
from a Com'e from Each State will I believe be agreed to. Should any 
material Alteration take place so as to effect our state, we shall attempt 
a reconsideration of Quotas.* 

I am, with all due respects to the General Assembly, your obedient and 
humble servant, 

Abra : Clark 

55. Elbridge Gerry to the President of Congress/ 

Philadelphia Feby 19, 1780. 
Sir, 

The Decision of Congress yesterday " that I was not in Order in re- 
quiring the Yeas and Nays on the question of Order respecting the Mo- 
tion which I had then the Honor to make " appears to me to be contrary 
to the Rules and Practice of the House, and to deprive me of the privilege 
of a Member thereof. 

The Rules alluded to, are contained in the loth and 12th Articles of 
those which were passed by Congress the 26th May 1778. 

The Practice referred to, may be seen in the printed Journals of Con- 
gress of the Year 1779, wherein the Yeas and Nays have been taken on 
questions of order as follows, April 22, May 14th and 24, June 8th, July 
30th, Octr 30th, and Deer i8th. 

Having as I conceive clearly shewn that requiring Yeas and Nays on 
questions of order is warranted by the Rules and practice of the House, 
It may be proper to observe, that the following paragraph of a Report 
Vizt " Beef best grass fed which shall be delivered between the first of 
July and the ist of Deer., shall be 5^ Dollars per hundred " was under 
the Consideration of Congress yesterday when I moved " that the para- 
graph of the Report of the Committee respecting the prices of Articles 
which were adjusted agreable to the late Act of the State of N Jersey, be 
recommitted, and that, as the price of Flower is fixed by Congress agre- 
able to the price agreed on by the Convention of the States from New 

* The report of the committee for estimating supplies was brought in Feb. 9 and 
was debated from Feb. 16 to 25. Cf. nos. 38, 40, 43, 45, 49, ante, and nos. 55, 58, 60, 65, 
67, 69-71. 87, post. 

[55]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. X., f. 219; Mass. Arch., 
CXLII. 220. 



42 Continental Congress 

Ham [p] shire to Pennsylvania inclusively, held at N Haven in January 
1778, the Committee be directed to adjust the prices of other articles in 
the proportion adopted by the Convention ", and that upon a question, 
whether the Motion was in Order I appealed to the House and required 
the Yeas and Nays, whereupon the president taking" the sense of the House 
declared that the calling the Yeas and Nays in this Case was by the House 
determined to be out of Order.^ 

If the Decision of the House affected me only in a private Capacity, 
I should not hesitate a Moment to pass it over in Silence, altho my Feel- 
ings would be injured by being denyed a privilege which other Members 
under similar Circumstances had enjoyed; but as it affects me in a pub- 
lick Character, I am reduced to the disagreable alternative of giving up 
what appears to me an important privilege of a Member of the House, 
or of defending the same against the Determinations of a Body, whose 
Honor I have much at Heart and shall always endeavour to support, 
the former, I am not authorized to do, and therefore I shall defend the 
privilege to the best of my abilities and leave the State which I have the 
Honor to represent to do the Rest. 

Congress have wisely endeavoured so to frame their Rules, as to give 
every Member an Opportunity of shewing his Conduct to his Constitu- 
ents, and I hold this as a privilege essential to the Interest of the publick, 
and to the Honor of every Member of Congress; for without it, should 
a Majority of the Members at any Time be arbitrary both in principles 
and practice, which I sincerely hope will never be the Case, they would 
oblige the others to leave the House, or suffer unmerited Censure. 

In the present Case many precedents have been and more may be pro- 
duced to shew that the Yeas and Nays have been frequently called on 
questions of Order, some of which have been determined in the Affirma- 
tive and others in the Neg"ative; and if the House undertakes to deter- 
mine on what Motions the Question of Order shall be decided by Yeas 
and Nays, I conceive that their Rules will only serve as Cobwebs to catch 
Flies, or in other words as pretexts to enable a Majority, if arbitrary, 
to bring on the Journals such part of the Conduct of each Member as 
they may think proper, and thus put a favorable appearance on their own 
unjustifiable proceedings, whilst they stigmatize those of the Minority, 
however wise or vertuous. 

2 The measure under consideration was the report of the committee on quotas 
and suppHes (see nos. 43, note 3, 54. note 4, ante). Gerry is recorded in the Journals, 
Feb. 17, as having made motions to amend the report on the questions of the price 
of flour and the price of grass-fed beef, and also as having called for the yeas and nays 
on both questions. The proceedings on the i8th to which he refers (if they actually 
occurred on the i8th and not on the 17th, as seems probable) are not recorded in the 
Journals, nor even alluded to. Gerry at once absented himself from Congress (he does 
not appear among the yeas gjid nays on the i8th) and did not return, although he remained 
in Philadelphia for some months. See, further, nos. 59, 124, 137, 180, post. On a copy 
of the rules of May 26, 1778, which, together with other rules and resolutions, Gerry 
furnished in connection with his presentation of his case to the Massachusetts assembly 
(Mass. Arch., CXLII. 225-226) is found the following note: " N. B. In my Letter 
to Congress of the 19th Feby the 12th rule is referred to for the i6th." The reading 
appears to be " i6th ", but probably the 13th is meant, as rule 16 has no application to 
this case. 



February, 1/80 43 

I thinl< it peculiarly hard in the present Case, when the paragraph of a 
Report was under the Consideration of Congress, which as it respected 
some of the States appeared to me to operate great Injustice, and I made 
a Motion to prevent it, that the question of Order should be agitated ; that 
the Decision of the House thereon should preclude me from their Sense 
on the Motion ; and that whatever Reason I may have to suppose that De- 
cision improper, I should be prevented from shewing the Impropriety or 
even the Existence thereof. 

The House will probably remember that in a similar Case, when the 
Report for recruiting the army was under Consideration, I waved my 
privilege of appealing to the House on the question of Order, to prevent 
altercations on the question of privilege, and afterwards produced to them 
many of the precedents quoted herein, in Hopes that by convincing the 
House of the Facts, all Disputes relative thereto would have been after- 
wards prevented. 

I am unhappy, that any part of the present Time of Congress should 
be spent on a question of Order ; I did not agitate it, and only required a 
Decision in the usual Mode. 

I shall only add Sir, that I think it my indispensible Duty to repeat my 
Requisition, as a Matter of privilege, that the Sense of the House be 
taken by the Yeas and Nays, " whether the Motion which I made yester- 
day for recommitting the paragraph of the Report respecting Prices then 
under the Consideration of the House, was in Order " ; and I shall be 
under the Necessity of regulating my Conduct by the proceedings of the 
House on this Requisition 

I have the Honor to be Sir with Respect 

your most obet and very huml Sevt 

E Gerry 

56. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 22 Feby. 1780. 
Sir, 

By a Gentleman just arrived from the Havannah who left that place 
the 31st of Decem'r, I am informed that a Fleet lay in that Port ready to 
sail with between three and four thousand Troops supposed to be destined 
for Pensacola or Augustine. 

That on their Passage to this Port they fell in on the 7th of January 
with the fleet that sailed from New York in Decem'r as they suppose, some 
fifty leagues from Land off against Georgia as near as he could judge, 
the weather being foggy, when they Discovered their Situation they made 
their Escape as soon as possible without being able to determine the num- 
ber of Vessels in the Fleet, Condition, or Destination. 

[56]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



44 Contmental Congress 

57. The Board of War to George Washington/ 

War Office Feby 22nd, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... In addition to those above mentioned ^ the board have sent all 
the returns in their possession. They do this in Consequence of your 
letter of the 17th instant being just now sent them by Congress. They 
are fearful that if they send in a report on that letter it may give an op- 
portunity to some Gentlemen not well satisfied with the former resolution 
of unsettling the whole business, and by that means retard, instead of 
accelerating the Levying the Troops. They were about reporting origi- 
nally on the plan mentioned by your Excellency, but found the Calculation 
they were enabled to make from the documents in their possession w^ould 
be extremely inaccurate, and it was suggested that it would be better to get 
the Totals of the Quota's settled first, and let the deficiencies be an after 
consideration, supposing that the States on receiving the resolution would 
take the necessary previous Measures, and especially that it would prompt 
the Executives of the Governments whose Assemblies were not sitting to 
call them together, and by the time they were met your Excellency would 
have collected the necessary Information. But they see embarrassments 
take the matter in every point of view. Would it therefore not be best 
for your Excellency to make the best Calculations your present materials 
afiford, and send an account of their supposed deficiencies to the respective 
States, and if you thought proper, you might inform themi of more accu- 
rate returns being about collecting, and that so soon as you were enabled, 
exact information would be sent? Yet this latter might give pretexts for 
procrastination to dissatisfied States. At any rate they conceive it best 
not to stir the thing in Congress where great delay arose in the progress 
of the first report, on which the present resolution is founded from some 
of the Members disliking the comparative settlement of the Quota's. 

Your Excellency will excuse the board, suggesting to you their opin- 
ion, and consider the reasons they assign as most proper for your private 
Information, than as coming officially from them. The State of Pennsyl- 
vania has been furnished with all the information the board could give, 
being requested thereto by the President, and the Assembly mean to in- 
vest the Executive of the State with Power to act in the case, in the recess 
of the Assembly, which might be a proper footing for every State whose 
assembly is likely to rise before the receipt of accurate returns, to put the 
Matter upon. 

[P. S.] 

[57]^ Library of Congress, Washington Pap€rs (signed Richard Peters, "By order"), 
2 In compliance with requests from Washington, Feb. 15 and 18, the board sent 
the returns of various corps and remarked that they were unable to furnish the other 
information which Washington had requested. 



February, lySo 45 

58. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, February 22, 1780, 
Sir, 

We have for some time past daily expected ]Mr. Duane or Mr. Scott 
with the Act of Assembly, and the papers respecting the New Hampshire 
Grants. I do not know that the delay on our part hitherto has been at- 
tended with any greater disadvantages, than would reasonably be ex- 
pected. It has encouraged the Vermonts, and is considered by their friends 
here as a circumstance in their favor. 

The Attorney General from New Hampshire is now confined with the 
small pox by inoculation, and will not likely attend in 8 or 10 days: so 
that nothing will be done in the business till March, in all probability. The 
agents from Vermont are gone home without receiving any answer from 
Congress : those from the East side of the mountain still continue here 
waiting for the trial : some gentlemen are going home this week, who are 
the greatest friends to the proceedings of the people on the Grants, and 
probably will not return till after the hearing of the cause, which will be 
no disadvantage to us.^ 

Congress have for some time past been busily employed in forming 
estimates of supplies to be furnished by the different States for the ensu- 
ing campaign, and fixing prices to the particular articles ; which has been 
attended with much difficulty, as always I believe is the case, when quotas 
are to be fixed : I expect it will pass in a few days, as the greatest part of 
the report has been agreed to though 'tis likely some alterations may be 
made. I enclose you a copy of the supplies required, and the prices as they 
now stand in which is included the necessary supplies for the Navy twelve 
months, and the supplies requested by our Allies. I hope this measure if 
pursued will be attended with the good effects expected from it, at the 
same time I fear more difficulties will be experienced in carrying it into 
execution than is at present imagined. If the money should continue to 
depreciate, as it has lately done here, it will be difficult for the States to 
furnish their quota of supplies, and pay one third of their tax into the 
Treasury, as is expected.^ .... 

59. Elbridge Gerry to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia 22d Feby. 1780. 
Sir, 

I am informed by some of my Collegues. that Congress have not yet 
considered the Letter which I had the Honor of addressing them the 19th 
Inst containing a Remonstrance against their Decision of the preceeding 
Day, which I conceived had deprived me of an essential privilege of a 

[58]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 100. 

- Cj. nos. 32, 38, 40, 43, atUe, and nos. 60, 81, 90, 93, post. 

3 Cf. no. 54, note 4, ante. 
[59'P Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. X., f. 205; Mass. Arch., 
CXLII. 177. 



46 Continental Congress 

Member of the House, the Reason assigned for this is, that some Gen- 
tlemen objected to my Mode of proceeding as unparliamentary, and said, 
that a Member who supposes his privileges invaded, should remonstrate 
in his place and may there be heard. 

I know of no Resolution of Congress for governing their proceedings 
by Rules of parliament, neither will they apply in general, or in the present 
Case, nevertheless, I shall readily attend Congress, if they think it ex- 
pedient, but cannot consent to take my place for these amongst other Rea- 
sons; that I have not the privilege in Congress of other Members, and 
that every Member, by the Rules of the House may require my Voice 
upon any question agitated and put whilst I am in Congress, in answering 
which I shall betray my Cause. When Disputes respecting privilege are 
not between Congress and a Member, the latter may complain in his place 
without these Inconveniences. 

I conceive that the privilege contended for, is an essential one, and that 
without it, a Member cannot discharge his Trust. Congress have veiw'd 
it in this Light, or I presume they would not have ingrafted it into the 
Confederation; and twelve of the States are of the same opinion, or they 
would probably never have ratified it, without objecting to the Article 
establishing this privilege. 

Several Days have elapsed since my absence from Congress, during 
which Time they have proceeded in the important Business under Con- 
sideration at the Time of my leaving it. if I ought to be restored to the 
privilege claimed. Congress will perceive, that in the present Case a Delay 
of Justice is a Denial of it to the State which I have the Honor to repre- 
sent so far at least, as I am able to render it any services in Congress. 

Congress will consider, or not consider, my Letter, and grant or refuse 
my Claim, as to them may seem meet ; I am no Way solicitous about the 
Event, as it respects me personally; but as a Member of the House and 
Citizen of the united States wish to prevent a Measure which if con- 
firmed by Congress, will as it appears to me, strike at a fundamental prin- 
ciple of the union." 

I have the Honor to be Sir with all due respect 

Your most obt. and very [humble] Sevt. 

E Gerry 

60. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Feby. 22d, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the hon'r to inclose you the Transactions of the late Convention 
of Commiss'rs from the Eastern States, held in this City." .... 

Nothing recent from Europe worth your Notice except that measures 
are adopted by France and Spain for Carrying on a Vigorous Campaign 
the ensuing year. I dread the Consequences of Calling upon the States for 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 22, and no. 55, ante; also nos. 124, 137, 180, post. 
[6o]iN. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VII. 114. 
2 See nos. 18, 21, 23, 28, 30, 54, ante. 



February, ijSo 47 

such Aid and Assistance in the present deranged state of our finances, as 
will enable us to Co-operate with our Allies in Carrying on the War with 
Success, or procuring a permanent, and advantageous Peace. 

Congress are making out apportionments, and estimates for men and 
Supplies, which if I augur right will cost some time and Trouble or Else 
their Calculations will by no means Suit the meridian of N Hamp'e.^ 

You will also find inclosed the Copy of Charges exhibited by Col. 
Hazen against I. Tichener and Others as also an account when and where 
the ensuing is to be made. I Concieve it my duty to give this information 
that the State might have oportunity to add their assistance if Necessary, 
to investigate those fraudulent practices.* 

6i. John Collins to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia, February the 22, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I Received yours of the i8th yesterday and will Endeaver to give all 
the information I Can at present. 

I have not heard any mention of your Resignation Since my Return 
to Congress, Neither have I heard of any New arrangement in your De- 
partment nither do I think there will be any soone.^ European News we 
have none, and as to Peace, I can onely give you my opinion, which is we 
shall have no Peace this year, and my reasons for it is, Spain are not yet 
Ready for a Peace, they will conquer the Floredies and the Eastern banks 
of the Massicipi and will have to Settle with Congress how far they Shall 
extend East, this is onely my Opinion and the idea I have of what Spain 
will Clame, they undoubtedly will take Special Care to keep the united 
States from their Maxican Dominions and Shet all the world but them- 
selves out of the Bay of Maxico and leave the Floradies and what they 
may obtain East of the Massicipi a wilderness to prevent the united States 
from giting too near their Strong Box ; from the above you may Colect 
my ideas of Peace and the views of Spain. 

as to money maters I can onely Say I hear dayly Complaints of the 
poverty of the treasuery. We are now on the Report of the Committee 
for Settling the propotion Each State Shall Supply for the Support of the 
Armey if anything heave up relating to your Department, I will give 
you timely notice. 



I am With Great Regard 



your friend and humb'e Servt. 

John Collins 



N. B. anything in my Power to inform you that Relates to you or your 
Department you may enquier with great freedom. 

3 Cj. no. 54, note 4, anie. 

* Isaac Tichnor was deputy commissary of purchases at Coos, N. H. The others 
involved in Hazen's charges were Jacob Bayley, deputy quartermaster-general, and 
Matthew Lynes, deputy commissary of issues at the same place. Washington ordered 
a court-martial on Tichnor and Bayley and a court of inquiry on Lynes (letter to Col. 
Stephen Moylan Mar. 8, to Col. Joseph Cilley Mar. 9, in Washington Papers). 
[61 ]i William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 See no. 26, ante, and nos. 68, yj, 109, no, post. 



48 Continental Congress 

62. James Lovell to George Washington.^ 

General Washington 

Philada. Feb. 23d, 1780. 

From Expressions in some of your Excellency's Letters to Congress 
and in one lately to Baron Steuben I conceive that you imagine us more 
regularly informed than we have actually been about European Affairs — 
particularly about our Interests in France. 

The Correspondence with our Ministers at foreign Courts passing 
especially under my Eye and Finger, I wish you to be persuaded that I will 
not omit giving you any Information in my Power from time to time 
which I can judge may conduce either to your Ease in the Formation of 
military Plans, or to your Relief under Anxi[e]ties about Supplies ex- 
pected from Europe.^ 

With the latter View, I was putting some Facts together to warrant a 
Conclusion that our Letters to the King of France, and Invoices to our 
Minister there had arrived on the 19th of September. Luckily however 
I am not left to Inference, a Packet having come to my Hand from Doctor 
Franklin dated September 30th in which he mentions the Receipt and 
consequent Presentation of those Letters and Invoices. He signifies only 
his Hopes of obtaining all or a great Part of the Articles. But the Min- 
ister of France here had some Weeks ago known under a Date of October 
from Versailles that Supplies were certainly ordered, tho' it was not clear 
till now that such Order was posterior to a precise Knowledge of our 
Wants being conveyed to the King. 

This is the only Letter received from Doctor Franklin since one of 
May 26 last year which came to hand Augst. 17th following. 

Doctor Lee under Date of Deer. 8th from Paris has covered the King 
of England's Speech to his Parliament on November 25th and Sir Joseph 
York's Memorial to the States General of Holland on the 26th both which 
you will see in the Gazettes of Philada. They are uncommonly modest.^ 
I do not however conclude that England is without any Friends in Europe 
merely because no mention is made of them in the Speech from the 
Throne. For, Those should not be boasted of as Friends on one Side who 
mean to step out soon as Mediators between contending Parties. Nor is 
it good Policy to forearm a Foe by publishing well founded Expectations 
of new Aids. 

The Stories of the Display of our 13 Stripes in Holland may be per- 
haps pleasing to certain Classes here, but I have some Proofs that Things 
have been conducted rather in Conformity to Dutch Politics, and in a 

[62]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Washington replied Mar. 4, touching all the principal matters in Lovell's letter. 
Concerning the matter of European news he said : " Be assured, Sir, I am fully per- 
suaded that no intelligence on your part will be withheld that may be considered essen- 
tial or assisting in the discharge of the duties of my station" (Library of Congress, Wash- 
ington Papers). The letter from Washington to Steuben is probably that of Feb. 8 
(Writings, ed. Ford, VIIL 193, ed. Sparks, VL 464). 

3 Franklin's letter of Sept. 30 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 354; that of 
Arthur Lee, Dec. 8, ibid., p. 419. 



February, lySo 49 

manner that will be productive of more solid Benefit than the Pleasure 
of indulging the little proud Aflfectations of our rising Na\^.'* 
I am, with much Esteem 

Your Excellency's Most humble Servant 

James Lovell 

63. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

Sir, 

We herewith forward to your Excellency the Act of Congress relative 
to furnishing the Officers with Cloathing, and in Compliance with your 
Requisition, moved that you might have Permission to draw on the Con- 
tinental Treasury in the State for reimbursing such Supplies. The Con- 
gress declined to give their Opinion upon the Subject, and commited it to 
an especial Committee, when they report, we shall not fail to give you 
the Result of their Deliberation, in the mean Time, we think no ill Con- 
sequence can attend drawing on that Fund for the above Purpose.^ 

Philadelphia Feb: 23d 1780. 

64. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[February 23, 24, 1780.] 

-?j. The Hon. the medical com't met in my chamber. 
24.^ Congress sit late upon very important matters.' I wrote to the 
council of Massachusetts. 

* The allusion is probably to accounts of the landing on the Dutch coast of John 
Paul Jones's squadron with prizes. See ibid., III. 364, 367, 370, 375, 378, 384, 395-399. 
404-408, 411, 419-426, 430-431. 

[63]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 94 (signed by Plater and Forbes) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLIII. 432. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 22,, 24. The letter to the delegates is in Arch, of Md., 
XLIII. 88 ( in council minutes of Feb. 17). The act which the governor requested and 
which the delegates transmitted was that of Nov. 25, 1779. 
[^J{]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 90. 

2 The following is an entry in the Diary of Jacob Hiltzheimer under this date : 
" 1780, February 24. Went to the Treasury Board and applied for money to enable me 
to purchase forage for the horses belonging to the members of Congress, agreeable to 
resolve of Congress." 

The resolve referred to was doubtless that of Feb. 16, directing Hiltzheimer to pur- 
chase necessary forage " for the use of the horses under his direction ". The warrant 
(twenty thousand dollars) was ordered Feb. 26. A resolve of Oct. 13, 1779, had directed 
Hiltzheimer to provide for the horses belonging to members of Congress, but the com- 
missary-general was instructed to supply the necessary forage and an account of its cost. 
Hiltzheimer was in turn to furnish each member from time to time with an account of 
the expense of keeping his horses, and the members were to make payment to the pay- 
master of the board of war. A further order for forty thousand dollars for the purpose 
was granted Mar. 23, and another for the same amount Apr. 20. See no. 176, post. 

^ The business was consideration of the report of the committee for estimating 
supplies. It was finished the next day, whereupon Holten wrote in his Diary, " Congress 
called upon the States for large supplies ". 



50 Continental Congress 

65. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin/ 

Feb. 24th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I forward the Gazettes to Boston for you as usual without knowing 
when they will find a Passage. Your Letter of Deer. 30 " and one from 
Doctor Lee of Deer, the 8th came to hand two Days ago, yr. prior being 
May 26, reed. Aug'st 17th. I hope you have got News Papers from me 
often, tho' I have written few Letters. 

The commercial Committee are impressed with your Sentiments re- 
specting Draughts. They are a mere Name at present. I hope that Branch 
will for a Time be connected with the Admiralty Board till a new Ar- 
rangement can be formed to be executed by Persons not Members of Con- 
gress.^ We are about calling on the States according to the Staples so that 
the Prospect of suitable Remittances is enlarged. This Plan is consequent 
upon the Resolve of Deer. 14th. 

I am, with great Respect, Sir 

James Lovell. 

[P. S.] The Chevalier de la Luzerne has expressed to me an Anxiety 
because we do not correspond by Cypher. I early communicated to you 
from Baltimore a very good one tho a little tedious like that of Mr. 
Dumas.* I enclose you a Sample at this Time. 

[65]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XVIII. 81; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 263 (letter-book copy) ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 517. The 
letter in the Franklin Papers is marked " 2plicate " and is addressed " Honorable Doctor 
Franklin, Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America in France ". It 
also bears a notation, presumably by the bearer, " James Lovell Cypher To be sunk 
in case of Danger ". 

2 In his letter to Washington Feb. 23 (no. 62, ante) Lovell gives the date of 
Franklin's letter as Sept. 30, which is correct. That is the date in Rev. Dipl. Corr., and 
in the letter-book copy, which Wharton used. In the duplicate Lovell probably wrote 
" Deer." inadvertently. 

3 A new committee of commerce had been constituted Dec. 14, 1778, and there 
appear to have been some hopes that thereafter the committee would lead a more useful 
existence. John Jay declared however in a letter to Washington Apr. 26, 1779, that the 
committee was then useless, and he gave some reasons why the business of this com- 
mittee was not put on a different basis (vol. IV., p. 177). The committee itself, in a 
letter of July 19 to Oliver Pollock, apologized for its remissness in answering Pollock's 
letters, explaining that it was usually in a chronic state of dissolution, and made 
promise, by the hand of one member, Francis Lewis, to do better in future (ibid., p. 330). 
Lovell indicates that the promise had not been kept, but this could not have been wholly 
because of the absence of its members. That the committee had many meetings in 1779 is 
evidenced by the Diary of John Fell. The committee appointed Dec. 14, 1778, consisted 
of Henry Laurens, Meriwether Smith, Francis Lewis, James Searle, and John Fell. 
Nov. 22, 1779, Cyrus Griffin took the place of Laurens, who had recently taken his 
departure, and Cornelius Harnett the place of Lewis, whose term had expired. Meri- 
wether Smith had withdrawn at an even earlier date, but there is no record that his 
place on the committee was filled. Three members of the committee (a quorum), namely. 
Fell, Griffin, and Searle, were however in attendance at the time Lovell was writing. Why 
therefore he should have declared the committee to be one in name only is not quite clear. 
June 13 two new members, Edward Telfair and Timothy Matlack, were added, but 
Griffin, who had been appointed to the Court of Appeals, withdrew at once, probably 
the same day, and Searle took his departure not long afterward. No new appointments 
appear to have been made until Nov. 28. 

4 For an explanation of the cipher communicated to Franklin by Lovell see 
this editor's note on " Ciphers of the Revolutionary Period ", in Avt. Hist. Rev., XXII. 



February, ijSo 51 

66. James Lovell to Samuel Adams/ 

Feb. 24 [1780]. 
Dear Sir, 

Besides the Journals of Jany. 1780 I send you two Pamphlets contain- 
ing the Treaties between us and France in the Language of both Coun- 
tries. When the Sheets were partly struck off order was given that they 
should not go into the Journals for other Reasons than because they were 
badly printed, badly, owing [to] the Want of Accents. I made the Printer 
complete a few of the Treaties as he had got the last Proof corrected be- 
fore the Decision to leave the Sheets out of the Journal.'^ .... 

We are bogueing in Congress, much divided upon a Report consequen- 
tial of our promise made Deer. 14. It is impossible to be accurate but cry- 
ing Iniquity may be avoided. The two great Rocks are, Shall we nozv 
state the prices at which the similar Articles shall be credited to all the 
States? shall we do it in Spanish Dollars, would or would not the last 
totally destroy our Paper, that very Paper with w'ch the States must 
purchase ' . . . . 

67. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular ^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 26, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 25th Instant by which the several States are called upon to procure 
their respective Quotas of Supplies for the ensuing Campaign in the Arti- 
cles and Quantities specified in the Act. 

Congress in assigning the Quotas have endeavoured to suit the Circum- 
stances and Convenience of each State as far as possible. 

You will observe that the prices affixed to the several Articles are in 
Spanish milled Dollars and the accounts are to be kept and finally settled 
in like Currency as a fixed Standard in order that equal Justice may be 

329. For one instance of a limited use of the cipher see Lovell to Gates Mar. i, 1779 (vol. 
IV. of these Letters, p. 84). For other instances see his letters of June 26, July 21, 
Aug. 10, Sept. IS, Dec. 4, 1781, in the next volume. 
[66] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- Cf. no. 35, ante. 

2 The debates concerning prices began Feb. 15, and the act was completed Feb. 25. 
See no. 54, note 3, ante, and nos. 67, 71, 87, post. By the "promise made Deer. 14" is 
meant the resolution of that day relative to quotas of supplies. 

[67]! The text here used is that of the letter addressed to "His Excy the Govr. of 
South Carolina" (John Rutledge), kindly furnished by Mr. Fred M. Steele of Chicago, 
through the courtesy of Professor M. W. Jernegan. Other texts are: Mass. Arch., 
CCn. 76; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL; Md. Hist. Soc, Red 
Book, VH. 26; Arch, of Md., XLHL 434; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XIL 102 
(to New York) ; ibid., XH. 404 (to South Carolina) ; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 303 ; ibid.. Force Trans., Trumbull, XL 74. 

2 This circular was sent to the governors of all the states except Georgia, which 
was excluded from the arrangement "on account of her particular circumstances" (see 
the Journals, Feb. i). Feb. 29 the President sent the act to Governor Richard Howly 
also (no. 70, post). 



52 Continental Congress 

done to all the States and to prevent the great Inequality of Prices which 
hath happened in some Instances in different States and places for Arti- 
cles of the same kind and quality 

As it is not in the power of Congress at present to determine the just 
quota of each State, they have made provision in this as in former Acts 
that Justice shall be done to each State in the final Settlement of their 
accounts. 

It is supposed that each State will cheerfully take upon themselves to 
furnish, collect and deposite the provisions and articles assigned to them 
respectively which being done will supersede the necessity of purchasing 
Commissaries and quartermasters in the several States. 

In order to enable the States the more easily to comply with this act of 
Congress you will observe they are excused from paying into the Conti- 
nental Treasury two thirds of the Monies which they were called on to 
raise monthly for [Ihe use of]^ the United States by the Resolution of 
the 6th of October last. 

Congress have thought it expedient to form the Estimate of supplies 
as large as would be necessary for the most vigorous Exertion in any 
Case that may be with probability supposed ; but as the Scene of Action 
may change or from a Variety of other Causes and unforeseen Events 
the quantity of Supplies necessary to be furnished by all or any of the 
States cannot be reduced to a Certainty it is expected the Commissary 
General will give due notice to the several States of the kind and quan- 
tity of articles wanted from time to time, that they may be collected or 
deposited at the places assigned by the Commander in Chief. 

The Importance and Necessity of a substantial Compliance with this 
Act of Congress are so obvious that nothing farther seems necessary to 
be added to excite the most vigorous Exertions on the part of the several 
States to carry the same into Execution. 

68. John Collins to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. the 26, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I Wrote you the 20 instant " their had been then no mention of your 
affairs but on the 23 the Reports of treasury were Read, and two war- 
rants on the Treasury pass'd in favour of your Deputy which I make no 
doubt you have Received account of before you Receive these 

and mention was made about Regulations but were drop'd untill the 
incloasd plan was finished, and we had learned what affect it would have 
on the publick and your Department — it passed the finishing Stroak the 
25 and will be Emeaditly Sent to the differant States. I must Confess it 
appears to me like takeing a leap in the dark — and Crouding the Ship 
through a Strait amongst Rock and Sholes in a thick fog. we may Run 

3 The words in square brackets are not found in the letter sent to the governor 
of South Carolina. 

[68]"^ William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

- Presumably no. 61, ante, although that letter is dated Feb. 22. 



February, 1780 53 

the Ship a Shoar she may poke through ; I have incloased the plan and you 
will Judge for yourself.' 

at all times when your leisure will permit a line from you Will be 
agreeable. 

I am With unfain'd Regard yours 

JoH-N Collins 

69. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Feb. 28th. [1780.]* 
Dear Sir, 

The Report which I hinted at, to you in my last, has passed, and will 
doubtless be officially sent by the Post Tomorrow.' But, as Mr. Fessenden 
may get early to Boston. I inclose a Sketch which I made use of during 
the Debates. I do not chuse seperately from my Colleagues to descant 
upon the Principles of the Report. But I entreat that you would use your 
utmost Eloquence to promote this Business and every other essential to 
a vigorous Campaign. And I must confidentially entrust you with an 
Anecdote to prompt yr. Zeal. The Cheval'r De la Luzerne, from the 
purest Motives and a most cordial anxious Concern about the Affairs of 
America and the Alliance, was writing a circular Letter to the Govrs. 
and Presidts. of the respective States by way of friendly Stimulus, but 
his Delicacy led him to inclose his Sentiments to the Presidt. that the 
Opinion of the Delegates might be had. The Letter was a very good one ; 
but the Measure was not agreable,* for several Reasons which an old 
Veteran, as you have been tautologically called, will easily conceive, at 
least upon casting yr. Eye over the 6th Article of the Confederation. 
I own that I felt no Zeal of Jealousy on this Occasion. But since the mat- 
ter has been agitated and delicately quashed, I hope there will not here- 
after be any Room to say that Congress have not Influence with the 
States nor chuse to let the ^linister of France try his. He certainly has 
a Right to treat with particular States thro' Congress by the sd. 6th Arti- 
cle, in Implication. Surely then he may in that Chanel exhort and stimu- 
late to the Fulfillment of Measures recommended by Congress. However, 
This being not the Question now, I recur to my Entreaty that you would 
be earnest in promoting all measures for a vigorous Campaign. Tho' we 
were enjoyned Secrecy; yet the Minister had no Idea that the Govern- 
ments of the States should not know that there is some probability of an 
armed Negociation; when the Proposals made last y[ea]r by Spain may 
be again advanced. The Enemy therefore should not be allowed to hold 

^ See nos. 66, note 3, 67, ante. 
[69] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The letter is endorsed, "J. Lovell, Feb. 28th, 1778", and is found among the 
papers of that year. 

3 The resolutions of Feb. 25 relative to quotas and supplies. See nos. 66, note 3, 
67, ante. 

* The Journals contain no record of this matter; but see nos. 91, 92, 97, post. 



54 Continental Congress 

any Parts of the United States on the Day of Cessation of Hostilities. 
We may be assured of the Resources of the Realme of France being used 
for the Purposes of grand Diversions in our Favor as well as Coopera- 
tions here if we gtt into a Condition for Vigor. 

The order for this Day was to determine where we shall move to. That 
is put off for a Fortnight. I am well satisfied we shall not move at all.' 
Another order for this day was a report upon the Letter from our State ; 
put off till Tomorrow.*' It will cause much debating for I will strive to 
have something definite; whereas the Report touches only the charging 
all past Advances and Encreases of Pay as Deductions in the States Ac- 
count against the Officers and Men. But it ought to be known whether 
the whole is to be a continental Expence. 

I add herewith an Extract of the Ministers Communications. I give 
it to you as a Secret and no Secret to make the most judicious use of in 
yr. Power. I only say it is not a News Paper Business. 

Yrs. affectionately 

2Qth Mr. Brailsford arrived this morning and has delivered a Letter 
with Instructions about the Penobscot affairs ^ and Col. Allen the Agent 

Fessenden has dilly-dallied and will be chopping and changing on the 
Road therefore I send all by Post which I intended by him.^ 

70. The President of Congress to tpie Governor of Georgia 
(Richard Howly).^ 

Phi LAD A Feby 29, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 25th 
Instant calling on the several States for their respective Quotas of Sup- 
plies for the ensuing Campaign 

Although Georgia is omitted under her present Circumstances I have 
thought proper to transmit you the Act for Information ; and that your 
State may conform thereto as far as they shall be able to afford Supplies.^ 

^ See no. 22, note 4, and no. 26, ante. 
^ See the Journals, Feb. 15, 29, and no. 72, post. 

"^ Concerning the Penobscot expedition see the Journals, Mar. 22, Apr. 5, 6, 7, 8, 
and nos. 103, 105, 127, 131, 136, 138, 139, post. 

s Adams's reply, Mar. 25, to this letter and to that of Mar. 9 (no. 81, post) is in 
Writings, IV. 183. 

[70] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 306. 

2 The following letter from Governor Howly to General Lincoln (copied from the 
original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia) is apropos here: 

" Augusta Jany. the 23d, 1780 
" Sir., I reed, your letter covering some acts of Congress, and another of the i6th inst. 
respecting the publick monies. I laid them before the assembly, and inclosed j'ou will 
find their Sentim'ts on that head. 

" The matter of supplies in this place is necessary. I shall in a few days give orders 
for a parcel of Wagons to be Sent for Salt and Such other things as can be Spared. 

" I observed, in your favour, that you was informed combinations were formed to 
Supply the Confederals, only on certain conditions, and wished the civil to interpose, the 
Q'r M'r applied on that Occasion last novemb'r to the assembly then Sitting and a resolve 
was passed on the 30th of that month, fully empovvering the Q'r M'r to take Corn at 



February, I/80 55 

71. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell)/ 

Philadelphia Feby. 29th 1780. 

Sir, 

You will receive, from the President of Congress, sundry Resolutions 
which are the result of much deliberation; and such as the Necessity of 
our affairs, rather than choice, has determin[ed] us to adopt." This Ne- 
cessity arises from the state of our circulating currency; and from the 
impossibility of having recourse to further Emissions of paper on public 
credit. The currency is no longer capable of procuring any given quantity 
of supplies; because, it is impossible to say what quantity of it will be 
Necessary for purchasing the commodities required, whose prices rise 
beyond any imaginable proportion; and the press, being once shut up, 
cannot again be opened with any prospect of affording relief. 

The only resources, now, for furnishing the Supplies for the War, are 
the contributions of the States, and what may be obtained by loans. The 
latter, after many trials, is found to yield but little aid, and that little, 
extremely burthensome to the community. The former is the true and 
unfailing fountain of the Strength of a Nation, especially, a free One, 
but it is not in the power of Congress to call them forth, otherwise than 
by Requisitions to the several States ; and, if the States fail to comply, it 
will be utterly impossible to carry on the War. 

\\^hile Congress could raise supplies by means of Emissions on public 
credit, a failure of Exertions in any one or more of the States would not 
[only] have been fatal, but, since that can no longer be done, it is unques- 
tionably clear that a failure in any State, who furnishes considerable sup- 
plies, might be attended with consequences, in the last degree ruinous to 
the Cause we are engaged in ; and which is now happily drawing to a glori- 
ous conclusion. In a word. Sir, the Exertions of Congress are no longer 
competent ; and, unless the States exert themselves, the Cause is utterly 
lost ; and we shall be left in a situation the most wretched among human 
beings — that is. exposed to all the Oppressions and Insults of enraged, 
Victorious, and avaricious Tyranny. 

It is much to be wished that the contributions could be made in money, 
so as to answer the Exigencies of the war. Such a mode would be most 
easy in Execution, tho, perhaps, not equally easy and beneficial to the 
whole, for that part of the Community, which is near the principal Scenes 
of Action, would be able to demand, and have, a greater proportion of the 
public money for their produce; and, of course, pay their quotas with 
much greater ease than those more remote. So that, not only the diffi- 
culty of contributing would be unequal, but the quantity of Contribution 

6 Dollars pr. Bushel and forage 9 D'rs pr. Ct. [hundred-weight], and this priviledge was 
allowed, only for the confederal Service ; but probably, of this you had no notice. 

" It will give us Satisfaction to be Enabled to proceed with Alacrity in Support of 
the common cause. I trust the bravery and fidelity of our Citizens will always recommend 
them, in the first Qass of distinguished Patriots. Request the latest inelligence." 

[71]! N. C. Hist. Comm., original (in part; see note 3, below) and draft, both in 
the writing of Thomas Burke. 
2 See no. 67, ante. 



56 Continental Congress 

would be unequal also. Contributions in money must be always subject 
to this inequality, until some mode can be fallen upon for estimating the 
quotas in proportion to the value of the produce of labor; but this cannot 
be effected during the War. 

There is another objection to Contributions in Money, at the present 
period, which renders it altogether ineffectual. 

So urgent, and incessant are the demands of the public, for Necessaries 
to support an army, which must disband if not daily supplied, that those 
who pay taxes have it in their power to insist on any price they please, 
and, no doubt, will demand higher in proportion to the Tax they expect 
to pay. This alone is sufficient to render the taxes unequal to the Supplies, 
but if to the force of this principle be added the force of that attention 
which each Individual has to his own Interest, and always determines the 
Seller to take advantage of the Necessity of the buyer, the force, also, of 
the abusive System of public purchasing, which, so long as our Necessity 
continues cannot be corrected, and of the fluctuation which the Events of 
War always produce in the hopes and fears of men, when all these, Sir, 
are added, their united Operation will render it impossible to make any 
given Sum of our Money represent a given quantity of any Commodity, 
indeed we find, by experience, that all calculations of this kind are vain. 
For tho' the States should tax to the amount of all the Money in circula- 
tion, the urgency of the public demands, and the avarice of Individuals, 
would raise the prices to so enormous an heighth, before it could be col- 
lected, that the money would go but a very little way in purchasing sup- 
plies : so that tho' the Community should be oppressed by Taxes, the 
Necessary Articles for carrying on the war could not be obtained. • 

The contributions of the States must Necessarily be in the Specific com- 
modities wanted for the support of the war. The powers of Government 
which the States possess enable their Magistrates to procure them by a 
variety of Means, they can be obtained on certificates redeemable at a 
succeeding Assembly : for which redemption, a tax can be calculated, be- 
cause, the purchase is previously made, and the price known, and the 
holder can discharge the Tax by those very certificates. Some can cause 
them^ to be collected by Specific Contribution, and some, we hope, can 
obtain them by that most desirable mode of contracting. But, we need 
not suggest the various modes, and our anxiety for the success of this 
most Necessary Measure, has carried us into the mentioning those few 
we have Suggested, not any opinion that the general Assembly will have 
Occasion for our Advice in a matter, to which their own wisdom is. infi- 
nitely, more competent. 

We call it. Sir, a most Necessary Measure. We will venture to repeat 
that it is indispensible. We cannot see any thing that can be adopted, in 
lieu of it, that promises, even the most distant prospect of relief, and we 
hope from it, for many Essential advantages to the vmited States in 
general, and to our own in particular. As to the last, we shall only say that 
our Industry will be applied for the discharge of our part of the public 
burthens, at the same rate with that of the other States, which our local 
disadvantages would prevent were we to pay in money only. As to the 



February, lySo 57 

former, we hope the Measure will remove the public Necessity by the 
provision of Magazines previous to the want of them, that the supplies, 
being furnished by all, and the remote coming in aid of those more near, 
will prevent that excessive demand, and excessive advantage taken of the 
public, which were the Consequences of procuring them only in the Neigh- 
borhood of the Army. That the evil of a numerous Staff department, 
established in Such a manner as to enhance the most ruinous abuses, will 
be entirely removed. In a word Sir, will give us plenty of supplies, with- 
out incurring heavy public debts ; without giving partial advantages ; with- 
out causing partial burthens; without leaving us exposed to the abuses 
of peculation, or danger to our affairs from the precarious subsistance of 
our amiy. If these happy effects should flow from it, our resources will 
be as inexhaustible as our Industry. Money will attain to its true use and 
value, for, in Ordinary Commerce, no individual can be under such Neces- 
sity as the public who are maintaining a War for their very Existence. 
If prices of Necessaries continue high, those who want them must re- 
trench in the use of them ; or increase their Industry to enable them to 
purchase, the product of that Industry will no where find that Necessity 
which, at present, every one finds in the public. The Market of high prices 
must be sought among the affluent, who will thus contribute to the sup- 
port and increase of Industry', but, even among those prices will find limits 
beyond which they cannot go, and Commerce will so regulate itself^ that 
even paper money will find a certain fixed value as the general represent- 
ative of Industry — an Event which may in vain be looked for so long as 
the Necessity of the public is suffered to continue, by neglecting or failing 
to foresee and provide for the demands before they arrive. 

On perusing the Report it will be found that Congress have allowed 
liberal prices for every article and all as near as could be in the same pro- 
portions, the Prices of the year Seventy four were assumed from the 
best information that could be obtained, and fifty per cent were added in 
Consideration of the particular Circumstances of the \\'ar. The whole 
indeed will operate as a loan from the Staple States to the whole union 
of which they must afterwards be charged with their proportions and be 
creditors for the surplus, the States who have not staples, or fail to sup- 
ply, will be debtors to the whole Union, it will easily appear to you that 
it was Necessary to fix the prices in Specie because nothing that is fluc- 
tuating could measure with the whole of the amount of Supplies or the 
several proportional parts, and Consequently nothing else could be adopted 
for doing Justice to the whole or to each. You will find the quotas as- 
signed to North and South Carolina far beyond what is their supposed 
proportion but the prospect of a vigorous campaign in the southern States, 
the probability of great Armaments being there employed, the impossi- 
bility of supplying them with provisions from any other States, with 
other reasons which will occur to you, determined the Delegates of those 
States to assume the quotas as they now are. and induced Congress to 
make the Requisitions, the Same consideration will explain the Reasons 

2 The remainder of the original is missing. From this point the text is printed 
from the draft. 



58 Continental Congress 

for assigning the different commodities as they appear in the Resolves. 
We shall only observe that North Carolina assumed the flower because 
South Carolina could furnish none, and the Troops from Virginia and 
north Carolina cannot be Subsisted upon Rice. We will now Sir dismiss 
this subject, first praying leave to press its importance in the most Strenu- 
ous Manner on the General Assembly.^ 

72. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philada. the ist of March, 1780. 
Sir, 

We have been honored with your letter of the 13th of January last 
signed in the Name and Behalf of the General Assembly and enclosing 
one of the same Date to Congress ; and we embrace the earliest Oppor- 
tunity of transmitting a Resolution which They have passed in Conse- 
quence thereof." .... 

We perceive " it is the Expectation of the State that all the Expences 
(being in their Nature only a Fulfilment of the original Engagement of 
Congress to their Army to pay them a certain Sum as Wages) will be 
charged by Congress to the Debt of the United States and to the Credit 
of that State " : And in Compliance with the Desire of the Hon'ble As- 
sembly to know " whether this Matter has been settled, or considered, and 
what our apprehensions of it are ", We beg Leave to inform them that 
we do not recollect any Act of Congress which settles the Matter; but we 
conceive they have no Intention of conducting it agreeable to the Expec- 
tations of the Assembly. This Opinion is founded on the Debates of 
Congress previous to their passing the Resolutions of the 17th of Augst. 
last as well as on their late Resolve of the 9th of February respecting " the 
reasonable Expence incurred by any State in raising more than its just 
proportion of the Troops Serving in the Army ". And we apprehend it 
is the Intention of Congress that the Expence of making good the origi- 
nal Contract to the Officers and Soldiers shall be defrayed by each State 
so far as it respects " their just Proportion of the Troops actually Serv- 
ing in the Army from time to time ".^ .... 

73. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare),^ 

Philada. March 4th, 1780.^ 
Sir, 

We have the Hon'r to transmit you some extracts from the Communi- 
cations lately made by the Minister of France, respecting the disposition 

* Cf. nos. 54, 66-69, ante. 
[72]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 82 (in the writing of Lovell, signed by Gerry, Lovell, Holten, 
and Partridge). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 29, and no. 69, ante. 
' Cf. no. 42, a7ite. 
[73]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VII. 119. 

2 " Congress reed, a packet from France this day by way of Boston" (Samuel 
Holten, Diary, Mar. 4). See the Journals. 



March, 1/80 59 

and probable Intentions of the several Powers in Europe, by which it will 
appear Necessary for the States to exert every political Nerve in prepar- 
ing for a most Vigorous Campaign the ensuing Year; as well to Co- 
operate with our Allies, if Necessary, in offensive Measures, as for the 
defence of these States. We have no other recent intelligence from Europe 
worth Communicating.^ 

Our finance tho. much deranged are rather upon the recovery. 

We heartily regret the Necessity of asking such extraordinary aid and 
efforts from our fellow Citizens as Congress have by their late resolves, 
with Great reluctance, been obliged to do. 

The spirited and Patriotic exertions of the state upon former occasions 
gives us reason to hope they will not reject the proposed Measures. 

Every one here has a Psalm and a Doctrine in finance, and whenever 
any important Conclusions can with Certainty be Drawn, Shall lose no 
time in Transmiting the Intelligence. 

We have the Hon'r to be with great Esteem your Hon'rs Most obedt. 
and very Humble Servts. 

Nath'el Folsom 
Nath'l Peabody 

P. S. The last Wednesday in April next will be appointed as a day of 
Fasting etc. 

74. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia March 6, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... From the Intelligence your Excellency must have received from 
the southern Department it is presumed the Necessity of reinforcing the 
Southern Army hath called forth the Exertions of Virginia and the more 
southern States ' 

Your Excellency's Dispatches of the 9th Ulto. have been received and 
laid before Congress.^ 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 25, 26, 28, 31 ; also Luzerne to Washington Jan. 23 
{Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, II. 382), and Washington's reply Feb. 4 {Writings, 
ed. Sparks, VI. 457). Cf. the letter of the Rhode Island delegates Mar. i, in Staples, 
R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 274. 

[74] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, I. 341; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 306. 

2 Huntington transmitted the act of Mar. 6 respecting the filling up the con- 
tinental battalions. Letters of similar purport were written to the governors of North 
Carolina and South Carolina (Letter-Book, pp. 307, 308), and the act was also trans- 
mitted to General Lincoln {ibid., p. 309). The letter to North Carolina is in the Cas- 
well Papers, and in N. C. State Recs., XV. 351. 

3 Jefferson's letter of Feb. 9, which relates to the boundary controversy between 
Virginia and Pennsylvania, is in Official Letters of the Governors of the State of Vir- 
ginia, II. 97. See also ibid., passim (index, Pennsylvania), and Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII., 
passim (index, Virginia). 



60 Continental Congress 

75. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

r-^y Philadelphia March 6th, 1780, 

I had the honor of addressing you a few days since with my colleagues 
upon public business, which I hope came safe to hand. 

The British King has not thought proper to mention america in his 
late speech : I am at no loss how to acct. for it in my mind, for if he had 
observed upon the state of this Country as being in rebellion, I have no 
reason to think it wou'd be likely to answer a valuable purpose for him, 
at the several Courts in Europe at this day. His holding up his own im- 
mediate danger (no doubt) he apprehended wou'd be more likely to pre- 
vail with some of the powers in Europe to assist him, at least, to become 
mediators; and if they should, and the terms proposed by them cou'd not 
be complied with by Congress and her ally, the mediating powers would 
join with him in the war; altho' he may have no expectation of subjugat- 
ing america, yet he will be very loth that we should continue sovereign 
and independent, or treat with us as such ; and if he should be brought 
to treat with america as Independent. I suppose he will insist upon hold- 
ing such parts of the united states, as his armies may be then in posses- 
sion of; If this may Be considered as the state of our national affairs in 
Europe, it must appear evident, that all the exertions in our power ought 
to be made to drive the enemy from every part of these states. 

The enhanced prices of all the necessaries of life, the great demands for 
money, and the exhausted state of the public treasury, greatly embarrasses 
our affairs ; how far it is in the power of the Hon'ble Court to assist Con- 
gress, or what sums of money the good people can pay in, is best known 
to their immediate Representatives; But surely these are matters that 
require the greatest care and attention, as well as exertions. 

By letters from General Lincoln dated the 31st of January,^ which came 
to hand this day, we are informed that the enemy have arrived in force, 
in the State of Georgia, but have no particulars as to their numbers; It is 
supposed to be the Fleet that sailed from New York some time since. 

Congress have resolved to recommend to the several states, to set apart 
the last Wednesday in April next, as a day of fasting, humiliation and 
prayer. 

76. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress.^ 

^■^ Ph., March 6th, 1780. 

In the letter which I had the honor to address your Excellency on the 
1 5th ult ; ' from Saratoga I purposed personally to have explained my- 

[75]iMass. Arch.. CCII. 88. 

2 The letter of Lincohi mentioned in the Journals Mar. 6 is dated Jan. 29. 

[76]^ Library of Congress. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, f. 515; ibid., Washington 
Papers (autograph copy) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 407. Sparks prints 
this letter as if to Washington, in spite of the fact that the letter itself contains rather 
clear evidence that Schuyler was writing to Congress and not to Washington, and in 
spite of the further fact that in his letter of Mar. 7 to Washington (no. 77, post) he men- 
tions that he is enclosing for Washington's perusal a copy of the letter which he had 
written to Congress on the subject of his appointment. 

2 Schuyler's letter of Feb. 15 was read in Congress Feb. 28. 



March, ijSo 61 

self to Congress on the Subject of the appointment of the 21st of January 
last ^ but reflecting that notwithstanding the entire confidence I entertain 
of the honor and candour of every Individual Member of Congress, It is 
nevertheless possible that thro want of perpescuity * in Expressing myself 
or misapprehension in others, what I may verbally deliver on the Subject 
may be unintentionally Construed or repeated in a sense widely different 
from my Intentions — this Consideration Induces me to Convey my deter- 
mination in writing. 

Every reflection Sir I have made, since the receipt of Your Excellencys 
letter of the 24th January, on the appointment mentioned In It. has Con- 
firmed the conclusion I very Early drew that I could not Consistently with 
my honor and reputation accept of any employment under Congress In a 
Station either less honorable or less Important than that which I once 
had the honor to hold. And when the Circumstances which led to my 
quitting the Army shall recur to Congress, I trust they will acquiesce In 
the Justness and ^ propriety of this determination on my part. 

I do not mean Sir to Convey the most distant Idea that I Sollicit a 
restoration to the rank and place I held In the Army;® It is true that I 
quitted It with reluctance and that I have often since lamented that I was 
drove to the necessity of doing It, Yet the delicacy I entertain with respect 
to the feelings of others who might possibly Conceive themselves Injured 
by a perfect restoration of my rank, added to other Considerations have 
Induced me to lay aside every wish for a reappointment. But Sir as I 
am incapable of withholding any Services my Country may deem me 
Capable of rendering, as a reform In the Civil departments of the Army 
is of the highest necessity and as Congress have thought proper to apply 
to me for my Aid on the Occasion, permit me to tender them an offer of 
my services as a member of their house on a Committee to Consult with 
the Commander In Chief and the heads of the several civil departments 
of the Army, and to Adopt such Measures as will have a probable ten- 
dency to compleat the great Object of the resolution of the 21st January; 
As a member of such a Committee I should Esteem It my duty to visit 
every part of the Continent for the purpose of Introducing good order 
and a proper oeconomy and should deem myself fully rewarded for every 
possible Exertion In the Success of the business and the Approbation of 
Congress.'' 

I am Sir very respectfully 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient Hum'e Servt. 

Ph. Schuyler 

^ See no. 19, ante. 

* The word is thus written both in the letter sent and in the autograph copy. 

^ The words " Justness and " are not found in the printed text, but they are in 
the copy which Sparks used, as well as in the letter sent. Sparks doubtless found the 
words illegible. 

^ At this point in the autograph copy, though not in the letter sent, are the words 
" for altho ". 

" C/. no. "jy, post. 



62 Continental Congress 

yy, Philip Schuyler to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia March 7th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I arrived on Sunday but did not take my seat In Congress until this 
Morning as I deemed It prudent previously to adress them on the Sub- 
ject of their appointment of the 21st January which I did by letter Copy 
whereof I have the honor to Inclose for Your Excellency's perusal.^ I 
believe there is a determination not to Accept of any Services I may be 
able to render them In the line In which I have offered them. Many here 
affect not to see the propriety of the distinction I have drawn, but I shall 
be satisfied If the Candid and Ingenuous, who are not always a majority 
In or out of doors, shall discover that it is not one, without a diffirence. 

I believe It will be necessary for Gen. Greene to address Congress very 
pointedly on the Subject of the waggoners as I find a disposition In many 
to have them drawn from the Army, the reasons why they should not, 
If even the Army would after all be sufficiently in force, will be Obvious 
to him, and I wish him to Adduce them fully, to Corroborate what I shall 
deliver on the subject before his letter arrives.^ 

Our Finances are Completely deranged, a Committee of the whole 
have had them under Consideration for some time before my arrival, 
they have been on the business to day, without making any progress. It 
seems a paradox that the whole should be more Incompetent than a part, 
but I am so perfectly persuaded of It that I shall Strive to get It referred 
to a few. I have thrown together my Ideas on the Subject how they will 
be accepted I must leave to time tho I believe some good would result If 
they were adopted.* .... 

78. The Board of War to the Governor of Maryland.^ 

War Office March 7, 1780. 
Sir, 

We are alarmed and most feelingly disstressed at the Accounts we have 
just received from the Commissary General of Issues of the State of the 
Magazines of Provisions at Camp. Unless the speediest Relief is afforded 
it is by no Means improbable that the Army will be obliged to disband, 

[77]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to IVashington (ed Sparks), 
II. 411. 

-Schuyler's letter to Congress was read Mar. 6 (no. 76, ante). See also the 
Journals, Mar. 10; cf. nos. 86, 88, 98, no, in, 128, post. 

3 Schuyler possibly alludes to the action taken by Congress on Greene's letters of 
Dec. 12, 1779, and Feb. 16, 1780 (read Dec. 17 and Feb. 22, respectively). Mar. 4 a 
committee reported a draft of a reply to these letters, which, after amendment, was 
adopted Mar. 16. The letter sent, Mar. 16, is in tlie President's Letter-Book, p. 317. 
Cf. nos. 26, 61, 68, ante, 109, no, note 3, post. 

* The Journals do not record any meeting of the committee of the whole Mar, 
4 to 8. The discussion of the financial situation doubtless came up Mar. 7, upon a report 
of the board of treasury upon specific financial questions. In accordance with Schuyler's 
suggestion, the matter was referred to a committee Mar. 9. See, further, the Journals, 
Mar. II, 13 to 18, and no. 88, post. 

[78]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 176; Arch, of Md., XLIII. 444. 



March, I/80 63 

the Vicinity of the Camp and indeed the whole State of Jersey being 
exhausted by its Exertions for the Supply of the Troops this Winter. We 
have therefore most earnestly to request the Assistance of your Excel- 
lency and the Hon'ble Council upon this disagreeable Exigency and we 
beg you will cause as much Flour as possible to be forwarded that the 
Distress likely to fall on the Army and the dangerous Consequences which 
may probably attend it. may be prevented.^ 

We have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect 

your very obed Servants 

Richard Peters 
By Order 
His Excellency Govr. Lee.^ 

79. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Sir, 

We are honor'd by your Excellency's Favor of i8th last. The Minister 
of France knows very well, however wrong he may have deemed the 
Measure, that the seizing the french Flour was to relieve the exceeding 
great Distress of the Army, and we have never understood, or even heard 
it suggested, that the Conduct of the State was imputed to any other 
Motive. We have no Reason to think that he doubts the Attachment of 
Maryland to the Alliance, and have heard him express Pleasure at the 
Receipt of your Excellency's late Letter, which he says is fully satisfac- 
tory. ^^'e have set before him, in the clearest Point of View we cou'd, 
the Extent of your Powers which will not permit the Suspension of any 
Law, without an Exception for that Purpose, and that it is your Duty to 
see all Laws executed in the utmost Extent ; of all which he appears fully 
persuaded. The Consequences which he mentions to have imparted to one 
of us were, that as he found the Supplies were uncertain, and not to be 
depended upon, even after being purchased and stored, he could not, under 
such Uncertainty, invite a french Fleet to our Coast. We have ever 
esteemed it our Duty, and hoped we had discharged it, to communicate 
to the Governor and Council, in Recess of Assembly, all Matters of Im- 
portance acted upon in Congress which may relate to Maryland; there- 
fore are at some loss for the Meaning of your last Paragraph, as we 
know of no Matter of Importance, relative to the State, lately discussed 
which has not been forwarded." there is indeed a Report of a Commit- 

2 Cf. the Journals, Mar. 6 (report of board of war), and no. 79, post. 

^ The letter bears an endorsement, " Reced. by Thos. Sim Lee 6 oClock in the 
Evening of the loth of March". The reply is in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 107. The board's 
letter, embodied in a circular to the county commissioners, is ibid. 

[79] 'Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 52 (signed by Plater and Forbes) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLIII. 442. 

2 The letter to which the delegates are replying is in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 89, 
and relates mainly to the seizure by the state of Maryland of flour purchased for the 
French. See also ibid., pp. 41, 43, 44, 52, 58, 61, 66, 80, 87, 88, 93, 108, 113, 387, 396. 
401-402, 409, 421-424, 438, 439, 442, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 453-457- 



64 Continental Congress 

tee on the Application of Mr. Holker for three thousand Barrels of Flour 
over and above the Quantity last assigned, which, when passed, we shall 
not fail to communicate.^ 

Philadelphia March 7th 1780. 

80. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[March 8, 9, 1780.] 

8. I met the medical committee 

p. Congress has been in a committee of the whole on finance 



81. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

March 9, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... By some fatality the Letter of our Court of Deer. 2d never 
reached Congress but in a Copy two days ago ; " Nor had a Line from you 
or anybody else come to the Delegates on the Subject. The next Post will 
probably convey a Proclamation for Fasting etc. on the last Wednesday 
of April. ^ New York presses Congress hard upon the Resolves in regard 
to Vermont but I believe there will be much parrying. The plain Truth 
is the People of the Grants gave assurances, to our half Com'tee that 
visited them last Summer, of a Willingness to submit to a Dicision of 
Congress New York did the same. We asked others to follow. The 
Grant People now refuse. New York and N. H. are desirous of our 
going on. 3 States cannot vote two are represented by Members not 
here in Sepr. and Octr., Ellery and Burke who will not believe they have 
any right whatever to discuss the Independ'ce of Vermont. Others wish 
the Discussion 10 years off. Thus stands the Matter. But I heartily wish 
to know what Mass : has to say * . . . . 

82. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada March 10, 1780. 
Sir. 

I have been honoured with your Letter of the 8th Instant, with the 
Intelligence therein referred to received from Le Comte de Vergennes 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 6, 11, and no. 85, post. 
[80]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 90. 
[Sij^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The copy of the Massachusetts letter of Dec. 2, which was read in Congress 
Mar. 7 and related to the subject of the New Hampshire Grants, was transmitted by 
the council with a letter of Feb. 7 stating that the general assernbly had appointed a 
committee on the matter. See nos. 93, 103, f>ost ; also Adams to Lovell Mar. 5 and 25 
(Writings, IV. 180, 183). 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 11. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 2, 21 ; cf. no. 43, note 2, ante, and nos. 90, 93, 106, 108, 
post. 

[82]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 313. 



March, 1780 65 

and M. Gerard which you was pleased to communicate all which has been 
laid before Congress 

The Regard and Affection his most Christian Alajesty has been pleased 
to testify towards these United States in granting the Request respecting 
the Officers in the Department of Engineers is very pleasing and satis- 
factory. 

The kind Offices of M. Gerard and the Commandant at Martinique 
are very acceptable and claim particular Notice as evident Proofs of the 
Friendship and Regard which delineate the national Character of our 
good Allies.' 

83. John Collins to Xathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphl\, March the loth 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have nothing of Consequence to inform y[ou] the Committee ap- 
pointed to take into Considerati[on] your letter, Reported a day or two 
past, you w[ould] be Requested to Continue in your office of Ou[arter 
Master] General — the Commitioners to Regulate the De[part]ments of 
the army are here. A Committee of Congr[ess] Consisting of three are 
appointed to Join them [in] their Consultations, the Report of the 
Comm[ittee] on your letter is Refer'd to them, and what th[ey] may 
Produce is uncertain.^ I Shall not be very particular, as I am inform"d 
by Mr. ^^lichell y[ou] are Expected in this City in a day or two. 

I Shall be glad to see you and hope you w[ill] Calmly Reflect before you 
Resine your Post. 

my kind Regard to your Lade and all my good Frien[ds] 
I am with friendly Reg[ard] yours 

John Collins 
N.B. the Commit, is but this afternoon appointed. 

84. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[March 10, 11. 1780.] 

70. I met the committee on Finance twice this day. 
II. \ was with the com't of Finance the chief of the day. I dined with 
the minister. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. lO. Luzerne's letter of Mar. 8 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 540) does not however mention the extract of a letter from Vergennes. 
[83] 1 William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 The committee on Greene's letters reported a draft of a reply March 4, which 
was adopted Alar. 16, after having been referred to the new committee of Mar. 10, that 
is, the committee appointed to join with the commissioners provided for by a resolu- 
tion Jan. 20. See nos. 19, 61, 77, ante, and nos. 98, 109, no, note 3, post. 
[B^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls.. LVL 90. 



GQ Continental Congress 

85. The President of Congress to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philadelphia March 11, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
this Day wherein the States of Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut 
are respectively requested to deliver Mr Holker agent for the Royal Ma- 
rine of France certain specified Quantities of Flour, and other Provisions 
on or before the first Day of May for the use of the Marine of France 

which Articles are to be considered as part of the Quotas of Supplies 
called for from those respective States by the Resolution of the 25th of 
February last. 

As this Provision is wanted to supply the Fleet of our Ally in America 
it is not doubted the several States will readily comply with the Request 
of Congress." 

86. Philip Schuyler to } 



Philadelphia March nth 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I arrived here on Sunday, on Monday I advised Congress, that I could 
not consistent with my honor serve under the appointment they had been 
pleased to make. The other Commissioners were ordered to proceed in 
the business, but intimations having been given that my Aid was neces- 
sary, a Committee was appointed and I put on it.' As this does not com- 
port with my Ideas of propriety I continue to refuse. IVIen of Sentiment 
approve my firmness and delicacy, others are chagrined but dare not drive 
me to a pointed explanation, which I will never give otherwise than in 
writing, that my Constituents and all my Countrymen may see my 
Principles. 

The subject of Finance has for some time past engrossed the attention 
of Congress in a Committee of the whole, but paradoxical as it may seem, 
that a part should be more competent than the whole, it has been thought 
necessary to refer the business to a lesser Committee composed of Burke, 
Elsworth, Holton, Houston, Livingston and Schuyler.^ a Report will 

[85]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIT. 28; Arch, of Md., XLIII. 447; Library of 
Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, XL 80; (hid., President's Letter-Book, p. 316. The 
letter-book copy is addressed to the President of Pennsylvania, and bears this notation : 
" N. B. The like to the Governors of Maryland and Connecticut." 

- See Arch, of Md., XLIIL 127, 130-131. 

[86]i British Public Record Office, A. W. L, 189: 203 (newr ref., C. O. 5: mo). The 
letter is marked, " Copy No. 2 ", and bears the notation : " Rebel Intercepted Letters 
No. I and 2 taken at Paramus the 23d of March 1780 (No. i) In Major Genl. Robert- 
sons of 26 March 1780." It was printed in the Nczv York Royal Gazette, Apr. i, 1780. 
A text is in Doc. Col. Hist, of N. Y.. VIII. 788, where is found also General Robert- 
son's letter. The other intercepted letter was from Francis Lewis to Morgan Lewis, 
Mar. II, which was also printed in the Royal GazcttiC Apr. i, but is not found in Doc. Col. 
Hist, of N. Y. It is in P. R. O., C. O. 5:898. 

- See nos. 76, 7;^, ante. The committee which was appointed Mar. 10 brought in 
a long report Mar. 27. See also the Journals, Alar. 28, and nos. no, in, post. 

3 Nearly all these names appear in incorrect forms in the copy (as, for instance, 
" Burch", " Scuyler "). They are here made to conform to the spellings used by Schuyler 
in his letter to Washington Mar. 13 (no. 88, post). 



March, 1780 67 

probably be compleated by Monday, my object is a fixture of the present 
Circulating Medium at a given ratio, calling it in, speedily destroying it, 
a new Emission quot[a]ed to States and sent forth on permanent funds, 
the Quantum to be emitted to be proportioned to the periodical destruc- 
tion of the present Bills, the new ones to bear a Specie Interest payable 
at their redemption or in bills on France at the option of the holders. I 
believe the reports will bear this Complexion, but what transformation 
it will undergo in the House is impossible to determine, as every Man 
wishes to be thought a Financier and must have his Ideas. It will prob- 
ably be like Joseph's coat, a composition of patches party coloured.* I can 
say nothing yet about your Department, a few days will enable me to do 
it, and you will have the necessary communications, as far as shall be in 
my power to afford them, the Vermont business is not yet on the Tapis. 



87. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. 13th March 1780. 
Sir, 

You will doubtless have the resolutions of Congress, respecting the 
Quotas of men and Supplies, to be furnished by the respective States,'' 
officially Transmitted to you previous to the receipt of this Letter And 
on the 4th instant the delegates of N. Hamp're did themselves the Hon'r 
of inclosing you Extracts from Communications lately made by the Min- 
ister of France ; as also the answere Congress made to those Communi- 
cations, by all which you will be able to form some Ideas of the Necessary 
Measures to be taken for the ensuing Campaign, as also the situation, and 
views of the Allied Pozvers. 

The Numbers of men assign'd for New Hamp're to furnish is about 
one 6th part more, in my Opinion than would be their Just Quota. Yet 
as Congress did on the 9th ulto. Resolve, " That the reasonable expence 
any State hath incurr'd or may incur by raising and having in the Conti- 
nental Army, more than what shall hereafter appear to have been their 
Just proportions of the Troops actually serving in the said Army from 
time to time, shall be allowed to Such States and Equitably adjusted in a 
final Settlement of their accounts with the United States '', the Injury 
will not be so great, or in other words a prospect of future Justice will 
make the present Grievance more Tolerable. As to the apportionment 

* See the Journals, Alar. 9, 13-18; also nos. 88, 98. 100, post. 

5 It is uncertain to whom this letter was written. In his letter to Clinton Apr. 18 
(no. 141, post), Schuyler speaks of its capture, but he does not mention the name of his 
correspondent. What he says of " your Department " in this paragraph suggests Gen- 
eral Greene, but in the succeeding paragraph (here omitted) he alludes to some "financ- 
ing Ideas " which would, he thinks, benefit his state, uses the words "our Legislature", 
and otherwise writes in a manner which seems to indicate that his correspondent is a 
New Yorker. 

[87]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VII. 125. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 25. Cj. nos. 54, note 4, 67-71, ante. 



68 Continental Congress 

and prices of supplies, appear to me an Object of Very Great magnitude 
and ought to be thoroughly investigated. Tho I cannot say the amount 
of Supplies allotted to New Hamp're to furnish. Estimated at the rates 
affixed to them, very far exceeds their due proportion, Yet I must Confess 
I feel no Small degree of Anxiety when I take a short retrospect of the 
various Maneovres practiced in order to obtain those resolutions, Espe- 
cially that for affixing prices ; which must evidently appear to every im- 
partial person, well acquainted with the rates at which those articles were 
formerly, or are at the present day usually sold, in the various parts of the 
Continent, respectively Call'd upon to furnish the same, it was by no 
means founded upon those Just and impartial principals of equallity and 
reciprocity which ought, at all times, to Govern in every important deci- 
sion, as being the only Sure means of Cementing the Union of these 
States, Or whereby a Nation Can ever rationally expect to be Exalted. 

The ratio by which those prices in specie were pretended to have been 
determined was for all articles of American produce at 50 pr. cent Ad- 
vance upon the prices such articles were usually sold for at the places of 
delivery, in the respective States in the year 1774, And Articles Imported 
from foreign ports in the Same proportion with a reasonable additional 
Allowance for the Charge and Risque of Importation. 

Let us now examine how far this Rule has been observed? Indian Corn 
in the Southern States was formerly sold at from 21. to 24. 90ths of a 
Dollar per Bushel, it is now rated at 6yy2 QOths, which in stead of being 
50, is 200 per Cent advance. Rye, Oats, and Many Other Articles of Short 
forrage nearly in the same proportion ! The price of the best first Crop 
Hay at the Market was formerly about 6. or 7. Dollars per Ton, it is now 
rated at more than Cent, per Cent ^ advance above the former prices. The 
price of Merchan'ble flour in this City was formerly about Two Dollars 
per Cwt. Tho it was often Lower. Now rated at 4 Dollars and ^, which 
is 125 pr. Ct. advance — but enough has been said to Shew that such 
States, whose distance from the Theatre of JVar or other Circumstances 
will not Admit of furnishing their proportions, of these and many other 
articles rated in a Similar manner, will be Charged in a Specie Account 
from 700, to 150 per Cent advance above the former prices upon an aver- 
age. And it ought to be here observed, the various articles were assigned 
to the respective States previous to affixing the prices. 

Let us now pay a short visit to the Eastward, Say New Hampshire. 
Their delegates Consented to the article of beef or other ^leat equivalent 
supposing it possible to furnish that Article. They also Consented to 
same part of the Article of Rum not doubting but the price of both Arti- 
cles wou'd be rated in Just proportion, with Other Articles of Supplies 
Call'd for, and in hopes as the Sea port there was Open, it might be in the 
Power of the state to furnish at least a part of the Rum. but at the same 
time, they were the rather induced to Consent to that article, for want of 
ability to furnish Others, and more Necessary, Supplies, and Appre- 
hending, also, that a failure in furnishing the Rum, would not be attended 



■ " Centum per centum ". that is, one hundred per cent. 



March, 1780 69 

with so disagreeable Consequences, to the public, as a failure in many 
Other Articles of Supplies, and of course the State would Escape the most 
pointed Censures consequent upon Such neglect though unavoidable. 

But to the point. It is now time to enquire how. and in what manner 
That State is to discharge it Self from the enormous Debt bro't upon 
her in Consequence of the high, and unequal, prices affixed as aforsd. ? 
By furnishing Grass fed beef at 52 and Yi Dollars pr. Hundred wt. I 
mention Grass fed because those who wou'd wish to keep their Cattle till 
after the first of December for a higher price must begin to feed with 
Corn and other dry forrage, by reason of the winter Setting in, at least 
a month earlier there, than in Connecticutt and the States to the South- 
ward, which will be Such an additional and partial Expence I expect very 
little beef will be furnished from that State after the ist of November 

The price of Good beef at that Season of the year was heretofore ussu- 
ally about four Dollars pr. Hundred wt. and is now rated at five and a 
half Dollars per Ct. which is not 50* pr. Ct. advance from the Old price. 
And as to the Rum though I by no means pretend to be master of Mer- 
chantile affairs Yet I will Venture to assert that no man Can import that 
article, at this day, by Exporting flour at the price afifix'd, So as to be able 
to Sell the Rum here under about 2 Dollars 2^ths or three Dollars pr. 
Gallon if he Can for that the present Rule of barter here is from a Gal- 
lon to a Gallon and a half of Rum for one hundred of flour, hence it is 
obvious that my calculation upon this Article is well founded. And that 
New Hampshire must furnish Supplies at a very Great loss, when Com- 
pared with the allowances made for most part of the Articles to be fur- 
nished by Other States, or Else be Charged in an immoderate Special 
Debt ^ to the united States, upon interest, that will not only far exceed 
their Just proportion of the Necessary Expence of furnishing Such Sup- 
plies, but their ability to discharge! The loss that New Hampshire will 
Sustain upon a moderate Calculation by the unequal manner in which 
those prices are affixed upon the Supplies Call'd for the Current Year will 
amount at least to 50,000 Dollars in Sj^ecie while other States differantly 
Circumstanced will Gain in proportion to your Loss, and which mode if 
Continued but for a few years will entirely mortgage the State, upon this 
view of Things you will pardon me if, as a Citizen, I Venture to express 
my Sentiments upon a Subject So Vastly important in its Consequences 
And which So Essencially effects the interest of a State I have the hon'r 
to represent 

And hope it will not be Conceived that I have the most distant wish to 
retard, or discourage the State from furnishing all the Supplies in her 
powers, as the existance of the Army and Support of the Cause of Amer- 

* The copyist has here written "210", but it is evident from the context that the 
figures should be 50. Peabody's contention is that aUhough the new prices were to be 
approximately fifty per cent, advance upon the prices of 1774, in some instances the 
advance was as much as one hundred and fifty per cent., whereas in the case of grass- 
fed beef the advance (from four dollars to five and a half) was not as much as fifty per 
cent. The first " Ct." in the line is of course for hundredweight. 

^ The meaning seems to be, a debt in specie. 



70 Continental Congress 

ica very much depends upon the immediate and vigorous exertions of the 
Several States. Nor ought there to be any responsabiHty in Congress 
for the Consequences in Case of a faihire. my only Aim by this repre- 
sentation is to give you the Ideas I have upon the Subject, and if possible 
to induce the State to take Such measures in furnishing the supplies Call'd 
for as may reserve to the State or her Delegates in Congress the full and 
indisputable right, and Power, at any future period, when our public 
affairs will admit, of investigating the Subject and endeavouring to obtain 
a redress of the Greivance and Compensation of the injury Complained 
of; in Such Sort that no act the State may adopt Respecting the Subject 
may by any Construction whatever be deemed an acquiesscence in the 
System adopted by Congress before alluded to, for furnishing Supplies 
for the Army. 

It has Incessantly been my most Ardent wish, and aim, that Congress 
would fall upon Some Eligible Mode for freeing the public from the in- 
tollerable burden they have for a long time been Groa[n]ing and Travel- 
ling under even untill Now, in Supporting Legions of Continental Sine- 
cures who appear in Swarms like Locusts, upon the Land of Egypt, and 
not only draw Numberless rations ; but are in every other respect rioting 
upon the blood and Treasures of the virtuous Citizens (if any Such there 
be) in these united States. 

By making Calculations upon indisputable documents in my possession 
I am. with astonishment Convinced that there is not one moment to be 
lost, in retrenching public expenditures, loping off every Exuberance in 
order to introduce a more oeconomical System. It will be in vain for these 
States, in future, to attempt Sustaining the burdens She has but too long 
been Crouching under, and I have good reason to hope some Spirited and 
vigorous measures will immediately be adopted for effecting So desirable 
an object. 

Tho. in the present Situation of our public affairs, and the deranged 
State of our finances the Expenditures might be nominally very large in 
order to prosecute the war with Success, or negociate, for peace with any 
Tolerable degree of policy or advantage. 

However the present prospect in my private opinion, promises no other 
alternative, than abject Slavery on the one hand, or on the other, to excert 
every Nerve, to Carry on the war with redoubled vigor the ensuing Cam- 
paign, and I hope No Citizen of these States will hesitate, in hi[s] Choice 
a Single moment. 

I have the Hon'r to be Sir, with the most entire Sentiments of Esteem, 
Your Hon'rs most obliged obedt. And very Elumble Servt. 

Nathl, Peabody 

P. S. Mr. Livermore is determined to Set off for N. Hamp're as soon 
as the Traveling will permit and will be able to give full information upon 
many important matters. 



March, 1780 71 

88. Philip Schuyler to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia March 13th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last the business of Finance has been Committed agreable to 
my wish Livingston, Holton, Houston, Elsworth, Burke and Schuyler 
were appointed they have put the finishing hand to the business this day. 
I sincerely wish the supposed Sanctity of the day may have an Influence 
on the deed, the report will be delivered to Morrow ' The Great Object 
In view is Speedily to Call out of Circulation the present circulating 
medium, to give It In the Interim a permanent Value by assigning a cer- 
tain proportion to Each State for the purpose of redemption, to Emit 
new Bills on State Credit and to found them on Specific and permanent 
tax by Bond as a farther Security In case of the failure of a particular 
State to pledge the faith of the Confederacy, and to Issue them In a lim- 
itted proportion to those now In circulation and as these shall be destroyed, 
so as that their \sxc\ shall never be of old at 40 for i and new at par above 
ten Alillion In Circulation. The New to bear Interest payable In Specie 
at the End of Six Years or Annually by both, on f ranee ; 

Altho Congress found me determined not to accept any ofifice which 
would carry the appearance of my being their servant they had the In- 
delicacy to appoint me one of a Committee to assist Gen: Mififlin and 
Mr. Pickering for the purpose mentioned In the resolution of the 20th 
January'. I am determined not to Commit my reputation on a Business 
which I foresee from the Manner In which It will be Conducted, will 
neither redound to the honor of the agents or the service of the public, 
to say not a word of the Indelicacy with respect to others.^ .... 

89. John Mathews to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philadelphia March 14th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your very obliging and friendly favour yesterday, and im- 
brace this earliest opportunity of acknowledging it. 

It contains matter of high importance, and truely deserving the serious 
consideration of that body of which I am a member. Your observations 
instantly flashed conviction on my, before, bewildered senses, they at 
once evince the experienced soldier, and deep Politician, and I return you, 
Sir, my most sincere and hearty thanks for them. But alas ! either from 
the obstinacy, or some thing worse, of the men I have to deal with, I have 
very little hopes of stimulating them to any acts that will tend to the sal- 
vation of those devoted Countries. Were an angel from heaven to perch 
on the back of the Presidents Chair and proclaim the immidiate annihila- 

[88] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The committee's report was brought in on Monday, Mar. 13. From Schuyler's 
expression relative to the " sanctity of the day " it is inferred that he was writing on 
Sunday, Mar. 12, and not Mar. 13, the date given to the letter. Concerning this com- 
mittee see no. 77, ante, and nos. 93, 94, 98, 100. post, and the Journals, Mar. 9, 13-18. 

3 Cf. nos. 19, 76, 77, 86, ante, and nos. 90, 98, no, iii, post. 
[89]! N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XVII. 



72 Continental Congress 

tion of the southern States, unless something vigorous, and effectual was 
done, and even point out the mode, I sincerely believe, as soon as he had 
taken his flight, and the surprise had subsided, they would just sink again 
into the same torpid State in which he found them." As a proof of this, 
I will beg leave to inform you of what passed yesterday. I received your 
letter just as I was going to the house. I took the first opportunity after 
I got there, of informing them, that I had a few hours before received a 
Letter from a Gentleman, for whose opinion, I entertained a very high 
respect, and whose information was to be relyed on. And stated the con- 
tents of your letter, as matter of information and not opinion, thinking, 
by giving it this turn, to attract their serious attention. I thought my- 
self well justifyed in doing so, as your opinion had as much weight in 
my mind as if you had told me it was founded on information you had 
received from Genl. Clinton. I then took the liberty, by your permission, 
of proposing the plan of operations for the Southern Campaign, agreeable 
to your Ideas. I was asked, " from whom, and whence, I had my infor- 
mation, and whether I knew the person to be a AVhig '". I answered I was 
not at liberty to say from whom, or whence, I had my information, it was 
enough for them to be told it was undoubted. That the person was as 
good a Whig as any in that house.^ They for a little wdiile seemed to be 
alarmed, and I thought disposed to act like the Guardians of the United 
States. But as soon as selfishness, and the apprehension of danger to 
these States, from the adoption of such a plan, had repossessed their 
minds, every art and contrivance was made use of to silence the just de- 
mands of the southern States for support, and the business was at last 
got rid of, by the old, Stale trick of proposing a Committee to go to Camp 
to consult with the General. This I rejected with indignation, too well 
knowing it's tendency, that is, merely to save appearances, without the 
least intention of doing any thing. Thus you'll see, my Dr sir, how little 
is to be hoped from the best plan, that human genius can invent, whilst 
mens minds are warped by self-interest, and the danger is at a distance.* 



- Cf. no. 3, ante. 

^ The letter of Gates which Mathews read in Congress may be the same that 
Lovell refers to in his letter of Apr. i6 (no. 136, post). 

* The Journals contain no intimation of these proceedings. Schuyler also men- 
tions, in his letter to General Greene Mar. 22 (no. no, post), that a motion to send a 
committee to camp to confer with General Washington had been without effect, but he 
does not indicate the date when the motion was made. From this statement of Mathews 
it appears to have been made on Mar. 13. Similar motions had been made earlier, one 
on Jan. 10 by Gerry and Peabody, and one on Jan. 19 by Livingston and Gerry. Gerry's 
motion of Jan. 10 was upon a series of resolutions for the reduction of the army which 
had been offered by Livingston Jan. 8 and are printed in the Joitntats under Jan. 10. 
Gerry's proposition, in so far as it called for sending a committee to camp, was nega- 
tived, but Livingston's proposed resolutions were referred to a committee (Gerry, Liv- 
ingston, and Mathews), who took counsel of General Washington (see no. 8, ante). 
The motion of Livingston and Gerry, Jan. 19, was referred to a committee (Gerry, Liv- 
ingston, and Houston), who brought in a report the following day, recommending the 
appointment of a commission (one member of Congress and two outside commissioners) 
for regulating the staff departments, etc., and including a proposition that the commis- 
sion should repair to headquarters. This report was adopted. See the Jour)ials. Jan. 20, 
21, 22, and no. 19, note 3, ante. On Jan. 29 the committee of Jan. 10 on Livingston's reso- 
lutions laid before Congress Washington's reply to the committee. Jan. 22, {Writings, 



March, ij8o 73 

90. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia March 14, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been now five weeks in this city my time in Congress expired 
the last of Feb. Nothing is yet done about Vermont but delay from time 
to time. Massa. Bay is not ready and they with Connecticut and Rd Island 
I believe are all Vermonters, against us behind the curtain. However I 
dont give it up: on the other hand the prospect looks better and better. 
I think we shall make something very grand out of it : but perhaps not at 
this time. My being out of Congress is very detrimental, everything is 
transacted behind my back in a manner." 

As to news it is much in favour of America from every quarter. The 
Spaniards it is said have taken the English settlements on the Mississippi. 
The fleet that saikl from N. York for Georgia and Carolina are dispersed 
by storms, very few arived the 7th Feb., which is the latest account we 
have from thence. Ireland seems to be on the point of a revolution. 

The state of our currency is unfavourable, the talk of exchange be- 
tween paper and silver sixty for one. Beef is sold 5, 6, and 8 dollars a 
pound, and other things in proportion. Expenses are beyond imagination. 

Congress have in hand a plan for setting the money on a better footing 
whether it will succeed I can't tell. The plan is to emit 10 million Dollars 
to carry an interest of 6 per Ct. per An. to be paid in solid coin. This will 
it is thought make the paper as good as hard mony. 5 mil'n of this is to 
redeem all the present currency at 40 for one, the other 5 million is to carry 
on the war. 

The plan is warmly supported and as warmly opposed. There are other 
plans, but all are for making money to carry an interest to be paid in 
silver.^ .... 

91. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia 15th March 1780. 
Sir, 

We have the Honor to inclose You for the Information of the Gen- 
eral i\ssembly, a Copy of a Letter which We have lately received from the 

ed. Ford, VIII. 174), whereupon the resolutions and Washington's letter were referred 
to the board of war. On Feb. 19 the board brought in a report, strongly urging that a 
committee with ample powers should be appointed and that it should repair immediately 
to headquarters. See nos. 76, yj, 86, ante, and nos. no, in, post. The refusal of Schuyler 
to serve on the commission of Jan. 20 was equivalent to its nullification. Finally, on 
Apr. 6, a suitable occasion having offered itself, Livingston again moved for the appoint- 
ment of a committee to proceed to headquarters, and the motion was adopted. See nos. 
130. 132, 135, 141. 144. 145. note 2, post. 

[90]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 156; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 155a. 
- Livermore had been commissioned especially to prosecute the claim of New 
Hampshire against Vermont, and had been appointed a delegate to Congress mainly to 
facilitate that purpose. His credentials are in the Journals. Feb. 7. See no. 108, post. 
^ See no. 88, ante. 

[91]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 99 (in the writing of Gerry, signed by Gerry, Lovell, Holten, 
and Partridge). 



74 Continental Congress 

Minister of France, and of our answer to the same : ^ We submit it to 
the Consideration of the Hon'le Assembly, whether it will not be ex- 
pedient to prevent a Publication of both.^ 

92. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne)/ 

Philadelphia 15th March 1780. 
Sir, 

We were honored yesterday with your Letter " informing Us of the 
favorable Light in which his most christian Majesty has been pleased 
to view " the Reception You met with from the Council and State of 
Massachusetts during your Residence in Boston " ; and We are impressed 
with a grateful Sense of your friendly Disposition in acquainting his 
Majesty of the Zeal and Efforts of that State " in the common Cause ". 

We shall embrace the earliest Opportunity of transmitting this Infor- 
mation to the Legislature of the State, and have every Reason to beleive, 
that it will be highly pleasing to them, as We assure You Sir, it is to their 
Delegates. 

Any Civilities that could have been offered on the part of the State, 
would in our Opinion be but feint Representations of their Attachment 
to and Affection for your illustrious Sovereign, or of their Friendship and 
Esteem for his Minister; and be assured Sir, that nothing can be more 
endearing than the Disposition you have manifested, in thus cultivating 
a reciprocal Confidence between his Majesty and the State. 

We conceive ourselves authorized to say. that the Inhabitants of Massa- 
chusetts will use their utmost Efforts for bringing the present War to a 
speedy and happy Issue, and that the vigorous Exertions of our great Ally 
would operate as a powerful INIotive. if any was wanting to produce this 
Effect 

-The following is the copy (marked "Translation", in the writing of Lovell) 
of Luzerne's letter (Mar. 14) as transmitted by the Massachusetts delegates {ibid., 
ecu. 100). The reply of the delegates is no. Q2, post. Cf. Luzerne to Trumbull Sept. 24, 
1779. in A/fass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IL 439. 

" Gentlemen, I did not fail to inform his Majesty of the Reception I met with from 
the Council and the State of Massachusett during the Time I was in Boston. He was 
highly gratified by the Marks of Attachment which you were pleased to manifest to him 
upon that opportunity in the Person of his minister. He charges me to express his Sat- 
isfaction to the Representatives of the People of your State, and I eagerly seize this 
Occasion to acquaint you Gentlemen that I do not suffer the King to be uninformed of 
their Zeal and patriotic Dispositions nor of the Efforts which they propose to make for 
the Support of the common Cause, and I have not the least doubt but this Information 
will be fully as agreable to him as the former. I have the honor to be with the most 
perfect Attachment " 

2 Cf. no. 69, ante, and no. 97, post. 
[92]! Mass. Arch., CCH. 102 (in the writing of Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Lovell, 
Holten, and Partridge). The letter bears the notation, " Copy of a Letter from the Dele- 
gates of Massachusetts to the Minister of France ". 

- See no. 91, note 2, ante. 



March, 1780 75 

93. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, March 15, 1780. 
Sir, 

We were honored with your favor by General Schuyler, who arrived 
here the day after Genl. Scott, since which time we have not been able to 
bring on the business of the New Hampshire Grants, although it has been 
the order of the day for some time past ; the attention of Congress being 
almost entirely taken up, in endeavoring to establish their finances and 
prevent a further depreciation, which in these parts is at the rate of 60 
for I, with respect to specie; and much higher when compared with the 
necessaries of life. The plan before the house is generally, to call in all 
the money in about one year by taxes and destroy it, to be received in 
taxes at the rate of forty for one in specie. As fast as the old money comes 
in. new issues in the proportion of 20 for i, for the purpose of purchasing 
supplies or other expenditures of the war ; each State to appropriate funds 
for the redemption of the new money, and for the payment of the interest 
in specie. I expect the plan will be finished this week, and will be immedi- 
ately sent to the different Legislatures." The enclosed letters, though dated 
the 2nd of December were not received by the President till the last of 
last week, which makes some suspect they were antedated; as their dele- 
gates declared a few days before that they had no advice from the State 
respecting the controversy and that they would not put in any claim. ^ 
There is no doubt but they design if possible to cause delays and had 
rather the independence of those people should be admitted, than they 
should be under the jurisdiction of New York. I depend that next week 
this business will be taken up, and after passing a resolution against the 
independence of the Grants, a Court will be formed for the hearing of 
the parties that are ready. 'Tis likely New Hampshire and we can agree 
on the persons for the Court, which will save much time, although 'tis not 
likely they can suddenly be convened.* As we have so many members from 
our State here, and the expense of living is so enormous, I think it will be 
prudent for me to return, which I conclude to do as soon as the travelling 
will admit, which I trust will meet with your approbation. The Act of 
Assembly for limiting the boundaries of the State was agreeably received 
by a great majority of the States and was referred to a special Committee 
to report thereon ; which will be done soon as they find the House have 
time to receive it.^ 

I have the honor to be. Sir, 

your most obed. and very humble Servt. 

Ezra L'Hommedieu. 

* 

[93]^ Harvard Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSS., XII. 104. 

2 See the Journals. Mar. 18 ; cf. nos. 77, 86, 88, ante, and nos. 94, 98, 100, post. 

^ The reference is to a letter of Dec. 2 from the Massachusetts council, received 
by Congress Mar. 7. See no. 81, ante. 

* The Vermont question was taken up in Congress Mar. 21, but was immediately 
postponed, and was not resumed until May 23, See nos. 43, 81, 90, ante, 106, 108, post. 

^ See the Journals, Mar. 7, and no. 29, ante. The New York act, " to facilitate 
the completion of the Confederation ", which was presented Mar. 7, authorized the dele- 



76 Continental Congress 

94. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphia, 15th Mar., 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the hon'r to transmit to your Excellency an extract of a letter 
from the Council of the State of Massachusetts Bay, respecting the mak- 
ing good to the officers and soldiers of the army the original contract, and 
a resolution of Congress in answer thereto. Also a paper containing a 
recommendation for a general fast. Congress have for some time past had 
under consideration a plan for calling in the outstanding bills of credit, 
and introducing a stable medium of trade; it has been several times de- 
bated and recommitted. It was resumed yesterday in a committee of the 
whole and the principal parts of it pretty unanimously agreed to. I expect 
it will be compleated to-day or to-morrow." The Assembly of this State 
are waiting only for the completion of it. I have not time to state it to your 
Excellency, as Major Blackden, by whom I send this, is waiting; but it is 
similar to what I communicated in a former letter, with some improve- 
ments. We have no late news from Europe or the Southern States. 

95. John Armstrong to Joseph Reed.^ 

Carlisle 15th March 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have at some length lately wrote my Colleagues in Congress on the 
propriety and necessity of a limitation of prices by Authority, being daily 
more and more convinced, of the expedience of that measure, and that 
we have not another, possessed of sufficient energy and requisite dispatch, 
for the recovery and progress of our affairs — which are too important at 
this crisis to be risqued on the operation of slow or doubtful measures — 
nor have I any doubt but that the law if heartily and any how generally is 
gone into, will operate and have effect, as beside the requisitions of candid 
and disinterested men, even those who are much less so, begin to be 
alarmed at the near approaches of a total stopage of the circulation of the 
money, and earnestly wish for some certainty respecting it's value, of 

gates of the state to assent to limitations upon the western boundary of the state. It is 
printed in Clinton Papers. V. 499, with the date Feb. 18; but the certified copy (Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 67, vol. II., f. 250) bears the date Feb. 19, and a copy in Md. Hist. Soc, 
Red Book, VII. 66, has the same date. The committee to whom the act was referred 
appears to have made no report when, April 28, a " Remonstrance " of the Virginia 
assembly, dated Dec. 14, 1779, relative to the question of Western lands was presented 
to Congress. It does not appear from the Journals that any action whatever was taken 
on the remonstrance at the time, but June 26 the New York act, the Virginia remon- 
strance, and the Maryland instructions and declaration on the same subject, which had 
been presented to Congress May 21, 1779 (see vol. IV., nos. 285, 291, 293, 298, 330), were 
referred to a committee. This committee brought in a report June 30, which was the 
subject of discussion at intervals during the summer. See nos. 288, 422, post. 

[94]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, CoUeclions, seventh ser., III. 21. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 18; cf. nos. yy, 88, 93, anic. and nos. 98, 100, post. 

[95]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, VI." 



March, lySo 77 

which at present they have next to none. The topicks of argument in 
favour of this measure, must often have appeared to your excellency; 
arising not only from the necessity of the case, from publick and private 
utillity, but also from the baleful consequences which but too easily pre- 
sent themselves under the want of it. so numerous are the offspring of 
these different sources of argument, and so plain, that in writing to any 
wise and good man, I must check the variety of pointing them out, lest I 
shou'd abuse his time, or tacitly impeach his observation ; nor are politi- 
cal arguments (tho' fully sufficient) the alone supporters of the doctrine 
of a general limitation in the present hour, as those of a moral nature also 
fall into the consideration, altho' we hope there will be no occasion for 
their publick appearance. 

All the Objections I have yet seen to a regulating law. appear to be in- 
conclusive — an idle refinement of civil rights and lethargick timidity make 
up the best half of them — nor can the past efforts of the Massachusets- 
bay be thought sufficient, being without the present pulse of necessity, the 
sanction of Congress, or the knowledge of concurence in any other state ; 
no wonder then, that their efforts proved abortive. A crafty evasion or 
elusion of the Law, is the stronghold of it's opposers. to this disease, no 
doubt corrosives must be applyed. let them do it at the risque of some- 
thing considerable (but much less so than the safety of their country), 
perhaps the loss of Ears that refuse to hear, or some quick sensation to 
an unfeeling hand. In circumstances like ours, to call the above an Arbi- 
trary Law, is rather a reproach than a Compliment to government, the 
ultimate design whereof is the safety and happiness of the whole. There 
is also a different line of regulation incumbent upon Congress and equally 
necessary with that which respects the States as mentioned on the other 
side. The reformation of abuses and retrenchm't of all unnecessary ex- 
pences is a great salutary work, indeed some observant men of my ac- 
quaintance say it ought to be done previous to a limitation of prices, that 
it wou'd greatly contribute to the effect of that Law, and is the least en- 
couragement the States can have for their trouble in making and vertue 
in executing it, that after all, their property be not totally embezled thro' 
want of System and Economy. This is perfectly my own Opinion with 
this difference, that instead of either of these means taking any remark- 
able lead of the other in point of time, they ought to run hand in hand, 
but in the order of things the regulation or limitation of prices as the only 
basis of every other amendment shou'd first be known, for until some cer- 
tain value is affixed to the currency. Congress have no rule whereby to fix 
their Salleries, nor to make any other useful alteration with effect. I have 
used the name of Congress in this business of reformation, but well know 
they cannot do it to publick satisfaction, neither is it possible for the Com- 
mander in Chief of our Army, and except his advice in some particular 
cases and information in others, it is a shame to put it upon him, and what 
I hope in it's full extent he will not undertake. In short the States or their 
Executive Councils and they only are competant to this business — and 
some candid inspectors to make report, or other useful intelligence must 



78 Continental Congress 

at least be had from every County — this is not only essential to the gain- 
ing of facts, but by it the people will see that a reformation is intended ; 
for at present chagrin prevails so far, as to excite hard surmises and very 
disagreeable opinions, the business in question therefore clearly involves 
two Ideas — the one that it be rightly done, the other that as far as possible 
the body of the populace have evidence that it is so. by this means confi- 
dence in our publick councils may be restored, unanimity and alacrity ex- 
cited — the best means these, of securing our future efforts and payment 
of the publick debt. Congress ought fully and explicitly to authorize the 
States in the business above (as I have lately hinted to my Colleagues) 
and cannot be too early in advising the publick, that they will thoroughly 
inspect and reform such abuses as have been but too obvious even to vulgar 
sight. If any such resolution as this shou'd be made in Congress, I cou'd 
wish it dispersed in a number of hand-bills as the News-papers have not 
a general extent — considering it not only as a mean to animate the hopes 
of the people, but a good preparative to the limitation of prices by Law. 
especially if Congress shou'd think proper to express such desire.^ 

I long to hear from the General — how he views things, and from what 
Sources he looks for a remedy. Am too long a writing him but wanted an 
Opportunity. It's said that an application has been made to the Assembly, 
that what is called Coll : Flowers Regim't of Artificers or tradesmen 
shou'd be considered on a footing with the Pennsylvania line, or in other 
words, make a part of the State Quota of troops, the effects and views 
of this motion if gone into may be easily seen. I hope the assembly have 
not exposed themselves in attempting it. Nothing of the same size re- 
quires regulation more than the business of this place, but if the Board of 
War, under whose conduct it has always been, do not make the alterations 
themselves, this branch must fall in with, and be subject to the general 
line of reformation, whensoever that may happen. 

You must be puzled at the Alterations and new State-quotas talked of 
in Congress, of which I had a hint from Mr. Bryan — but no probable 
progress, nor uniformity of procedure, under any alteration whatever, 
can I possibly see short of a known or fixed value to our money, at least 
for some time. It is amazing to see how some otherwise judicious men, 
will venture to go on, and expect to succeed in the great business of 
America, without any rational foundation-data, or given point ! it is more 
than any Mathematician on Earth ever pretended to. General Green I 
hear is a sanguine asserter of the saving efficacy of deep Taxation, that 
alone is his infallible Nostrem — A deep delusion, a shameful error. Taxa- 
tion to the present demands of America is like the Gentlemans Dinner to 
his appetite, what he had was good, but neither enuff nor half enuff. 

I am dear Sir with perfect Sympathy and Esteem, 

Your Excellencys Most humble Servt. 

John Armstrong. 

2 Cf. nos. 12, 21, 52, ante. 



March, 1780 79 

[P. S.] Some time ago I wrote Mr. McClane,^ that I cou'd not possi- 
bly attend Congress sooner than the begining of May and the prospect 
of a late spring but farther confirms that deteniiination, but hope that a 
Supplement to the Bill may have passed this last session — not in the addi- 
tion of Dollars but of Delegates. 

Respects to the Ladies and to Coll : Petit if in Town 

96. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada Friday 3 C'k P. M. 17th march 1780. 
Sir, 

I have only time to observe that Congress have this moment received 
the following information, and may probably be depended upon as to sub- 
stance — viz : Mr Temple is comming out with the following propositions 
to Congress. G. B. to acknowledge the Independance of all the States ex- 
cept So. Carolina and Georgia, and that part of Massa. bay Call'd the 
Province of Maine, this together with So. Carolina and Georgia to be 
given to G Britain Mr. Temple to be allowed to Draw for whatever Sums 
of money he pleases. The following propositions were offered by the 
B. King and rejected by Mr. Temple viz. the United States to Join their 
Arms with G. Britain vs. Spain, if this cannot be obtained, the said 
States not to assist Spain against Britian. if this shoud be rejected then 
to make the best Terms on this Head he Can. 

This intelligence Comes from Hollan[d] to a Gentleman of high rank 
in this City by a letter dated 29 Deer. 79. The post waiting - 

97. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Friday March 17, 1780. 
D'r S'r, 

You will recollect what I told you of the wish of the Minister to write 
to the several States. He readily quitted the Scheme. But you will find 
he has taken an Occasion thro' us to speak to our State. I had sketched a 
Reply to him more general than what you will see transmitted, but I own 
the Example of Delegates from other States on various Occasions is a 
great Argument in favor of the particular manner which the Opinion of 
my Colleagues decided. It is not however necessary to publish that we 
are as partial as they." a Gentleman of high rank in this City is told from 
Holland Deer. 29th That Mr. Temple is coming out with the following 
proposals to Congress. " G Britain will acknowledge the Independ'ce of 

3 James McLene, delegate in Congress from Pennsylvania. 
[96]! N. H. Hist. Soc. Weare Papers, VII. 127. 

2 A letter in almost identical language, to Josiah Bartlett, dated " Friday 4th h P. M. 
17th M'h 1780", is in the Bartlett Correspondence, Dartmouth College Library. The 
Journals contain no record of the matter. Cf. nos. 97, 98, 116, post. 
[97]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
- See nos. 69, 91, 92, ante. 



80 Continental Congress 

all the States except Sth Carol'a and Georgia and the Province of Main 
w'ch are to be given to Great Britain. Mr. T is to be allowed to draw 
for whatever Sums of money he thinks proper ". The following were 
offered by the British King and rejected by Mr. T — " The U. S. to join 
their arms w'th G B. against Spain. If this cannot be obtained, the s'd 
States not to assist Spain against G Br. If this sh'd be rejected then the 
best Terms possible on this Head to be made ".^ 

I cannot say what Credit is to be given to this Information but I know 
the Hint will make you watch and put Things together as they turn up 
tending to prove or disprove the Story now told. 

I suppose you are convinced that nobody can tell what Value coninion 
Consent will from day to day put upon our continental Bills. 300 for one 
may be demanded next Week, tho' it is evident that there is not enough 
now for the Prices current. Something must immediately be done I hope 
we shall decide Tomorrow ; * and I doubt not the States will provide 
Funds. Pensylvania is most earnestly engaged in providing for her Quota. 
It behoves our State to be looking about for her Foundation whether in 
Plate or Lands or both. But I shall lose the Post if I do not drop any 
further Explanation. 

Y'rs 
JL 

98. Philip Schuyler to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 19th 1780. 

.... Advices tho not official have been received two days ago via 
Holland that Mr. John Temple was to repair to these states charged with 
propositions to congress from the Court of London, the Substance of 
which are an acknowledgment of our Independance, provided they retain 
Canada In all Its Extent — that we ceed South Carolina and Georgia and 
what they call the province of Main now part of the Massachusetts State, 
and that they also retain .Vcadia with Its dependencies — to leave us at 
Liberty to fulfil our Engagements with france but to observe a perfect 
neutrality with respect to them and Spain ' 

The report on Finance is agreed to without any Material alteration from 
what I think I stated in a former letter " 

The Committee appointed to Arrange the Civil departments in Con- 
junction with Messrs. Mifflin and Pickering have not yet reported, as I 
refused to attend I can only Judge of what It will be from the Ideas which 
Some of the Gentlemen have Communicated on the subject, which are not 
Consonant to mine.* .... 

^ Cf. no. 96, ante, and nos. 98, 116, post. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 18 ; cf. nos. 88, 90, ante, and nos. 98. 100, post. Holten 
records in his Diary under Mar. 18, " Congress agreed to call in all the paper currency 
by taxes" (Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 90). 
[98] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 96, 97, ante, and no. 116, post. 

3 See no. 88, ante, and no. 100, post. 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 27, and nos. 61, 7y, 83, 86, 88, ante : cf. nos. 102, 109, no, 
128, post. For a history of this matter, particularly in so far as appertained to the depart- 
ment of quartermaster-general, see G. W. Greene, Life of Nathanael Greene, vol. II., 
ch. IX. 



March, ij8o 81 

99. John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln (?)/ 

Philadelphia, March 19th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

The Committee have nothing new to communicate, therefore do not 
write by this opportunity.' 

I most anxiously wait for the arrival of Mr. Kinloch,^ or some express, 
to get some information of your situation, and the movements of the 
enemy, for we have received no accounts from your quarter since the 29th 
Tany. announcing the appearance of the enemy off our coast. We have 
had a variety of reports here respecting them, but on which not the least 
dependence is to be placed. I think it cannot be many days longer before 
we must hear from you 

100. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philadelphia March 20, 1786. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the i8th Instant calling upon the several States to bring in the Continental 
Currency by monthly taxes, or otherwise as shall best suit their respective 
Circumstances in proportion to the Quotas assigned to each State by the 
resolution of the 7th of October 1779, and making provision for other 
Bills to be issued in Lieu thereof under the restrictions and regulations in 
the Act. 

This Act is the result of much Labour and Deliberation, as the hap- 
piest Expedient that could be adopted to extricate these States from the 
Embarrassments of a fluctuating Medium and at the same time in some 
Measure afford the necessary means for supporting the ensuing Campaign. 

You will readily perceive the Importance of this measure and the in- 
dispensible Necessity of unanimity in the States in conforming thereto. • 

[99]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (copy). 

'A standing committee (originally Laurens, Marchant, and Holten) had been 
appointed July 8 to correspond with the commanding officer in South Carolina and 
Georgia (usually referred to as the commanding officer in the Southern department), 
that is. General Lincoln, and Mathews had been added to that committee Nov. 10. On 
Mar. 7 he had written a letter " In behalf of the Committee ", in which he says, " Yours 
of the 31st January we received the 5th Inst." (see no. 75, ante), and adds: "A copy 
of the act of Congress respecting the co-operation of the Spaniards with you in the 
reduction of Savanna and St. Augustine has been transmitted to the Governor of the 
Havannah." (The letter was formerly in possession of Mr. D. McN. Stauffer of Yon- 
kers, New York.) That letter and this of Mar. 19 were both no doubt addressed to Gen- 
eral Lincoln. The act of co-operation to which he refers was that of Dec. 16, 1779. See 
the letter of President Huntington Dec. 18, 1779, in vol. IV., p. 540. 

3 Francis Kinloch, who had been chosen a delegate to Congress from South Caro- 
lina Feb. I, took his seat Mar. 25. 

[ioo]i N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; A'. C. State Recs., XV. 359; Conn. State 
Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL; Library of Congress, Force Trans.. Trumbull, 
XI. 105; N. J. State Lib.; .V. /. Rev. Corr., p. 215; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIL 31; 
Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 318. 



82 Continental Congress 

It is requested that there may be no Delay in taking this Act under Con- 
sideration, and that the assembly if not sitting may be convened as soon 
as possible for that purpose, and that the Laws that may be enacted in 
pursuance thereof be transmitted to Congress without Delay. 

The new Bills will be struck under the Direction of the Board of Trea- 
sury and sent to the several States in due proportion. 

You have also enclosed an Act of Congress of this Day recommending 
the revision of such Laws as may have been passed making the Conti- 
nental Bills a Tender in Discharge of Debts, etc." 

loi. James ]\L\dison, jr., to James Madisox. sr.^ 

Philadelphia Monday March 20th. 1780. 
Hon'd Sir, 

The extreme badness of the roads and frequency of rains rendered my 
journey so slow that I did not reach this place till Saturday last." The 
only public intelligence I have to communicate is that the great and pro- 
gressive depreciation of the paper currency had introduced such disorder 
and perplexity into public affairs for the present and threatened to load 
the United States with such an intolerable burden of debt, that Congress 
have thought it expedient to convert the 200,000,000 of Dollars now in 
circulation into a real debt of 5,000,000 by establishing the exchange at 
40 for I, and taxes for calling it in during the ensuing year, are to be 
payable at the option of the people in Specie or paper according to that 
difference. In order to carry on public measures in future money is to be 
emitted under the combined faith of Congress and the several States, 
secured on permanent and specific funds to be provided by the latter. This 
scheme was finally resolved on on Saturday last. It has not yet been 
printed but will be immediately. I shall transmit a copy to you by the first 
opportunity. The little time I have been here makes it impossible for me 
to enter into a particular delineation of it. It will probably create great 
perplexity and complaints in many private transactions.^ Congress have 
recommended to the States to repeal their tender laws, and to take meas- 
ures for preventing injustice as much as possible. It is probable that in 

- See nos. 77, 86, 88, 93, 94, 92.. q8, ante, and nos. loi, 102, 104-109, post. 
[ioi]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Hunt, Writings of James Madison, I. 58. 

- In a letter to Richard Henry Lee, Mar. 20, William Shippen remarked, " Young 
Madison one of your Delegates came into Congress yesterday" (Univ. of Va., Lee 
Papers). "Yesterday" was, however, Sunday. Madison's first attendance was Monday, 
Mar. 20 ; therefore Shippen doubtless wrote on Mar. 21. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 18, and no. 100, note 2, ante. Samuel Chase wrote to 
Richard Henry Lee from Annapolis, June 9 : " Do 3'ou know when the Resolve for 
the Continental Bankruptcy, 18 March, passed that there were but ten States represented. 
five for and four agt the Measure, one state divided — three unrepresented" (Univ. of Va., 
Lee Papers). Qiase presumably obtained his information from George Plater, the only 
Maryland delegate in attendance, but in any case he was misinformed. There were eleven 
states represented, and the vote was six ayes, four noes, and one (New Hampshire) 
divided. Three states (Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina) had but a single dele- 
gate in attendance, but, while in the cases of Delaware and South Carolina one delegate 
could cast the state's vote, Maryland required two. Plater's vote (which was in the nega- 
tive) was accordingly ineffective. Georgia was the only state which had no delegate on 
the floor. 



March, 1/80 83 

the case of loans to the public, the state of depreciation at the time they 
were made will be the rule of payment, but nothing is yet decided on that 
point.* I expect to be more at leisure to write fully by next post. 

102. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 20th, 1780. 
Sir, 

The President will transmit to your Excellency the resolutions of Con- 
gress for sinking the continental bills of credit and issuing new bills on 
the credit of the several States, which we hope will be approved by your 
Excellency and the Honorable the General Assembly. 

It was judged impracticable to carry on the war another year with the 
present currency, and no other plan has been proposed that appeared so 
likely to relieve us from the embarrassments of a fluctuating currency as 
that which has been adopted by Congress. The depreciation here has been 
at the rate of sixty for one and in the Southern States from forty to fifty. 
Neither the scarcity or the collection of taxes have had any effect to ap- 
preciate, or fix, its value. 'Tis apprehended that the new bills will be ef- 
fectually secured against depreciation, from the smallness of the quantity 
to be in circulation, the funds provided for their redemption, the short- 
ness of the period, and the payment of an annual interest. The preparing 
them under the direction of the Board of Treasury, and the insurance of 
payment by the United States in case any State shall by the events of the 
war be rendered incapable of redeeming them, will give them a currency 
throughout the United States and be a security against counterfeits. 

This emission of bills will not only introduce a stable medium of trade, 
but increase the revenue the amount of five millions of dollars equal to 
specie. The six tenths of the bills to be emitted will enable the States to 
purchase the specific supplies called for by the resolution of the 25th of 
February last, and the remaining four tenths will supply the continental 
Treasury for paying the army, etc., while the States are collecting in the 
old bills by taxes ; and although it is recommended to collect in the conti- 
nental bills by monthly assessments, it may be expedient to give the people 
an opportunity of paying the whole at one payment. It may also he ex- 
pedient for the States to allow new bills to be exchanged for the old, that 
the old may be drawn out of circulation as soon as possible to prevent 
further imposition by counterfeits, and if there should be a scarcity of 
money people might be allowed to pay their rates in provisions, to be 
delivered at the magazines at the prices fixed by Congress. The new bills 
will be prepared and forwarded to the States as soon as possible. 

We hear that the Honorable Assembly have ordered a new emission 
of bills. We beg leave to submit to your Excellency whether it will not 

* See the Journals, Mar, 20, and nos. 102, 104, 105, post. Concerning the matter 
of the tender laws see the Journals, Feb. 14, 29, Mar. 11, 20. Concerning the payment of 
interest and principal of loan office certificates see no. 102, note 2, post. 

[102] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 26 (signed by Sherman and 
Ellsworth). 



84 Continental Congress 

be expedient to stop the issuing of them, and immediately adopt the plan 
recommended by Congress. We should be sorry to have that fail of the 
good effects expected from it by any act or omission on the part of the 
States. The same proportions are kept up in the present requisitions as 
in the resolution of the /th of October last, wherein Connecticut is rated 
much too high, but hope that wont prevent her compliance, at least to the 
amount of her quota, which would be about one twelfth part, in case none 
of the States were disabled by the events of the war from raising their 
quotas. Perhaps her quota in present circumstances would be more than 
one eleventh part of the whole. Repeated assurances have been given by 
Congress that those States which do more than their proportion shall be 
equitably compensated. 

There is a report before Congress for fixing the rate in specie at which 
the loan-office certificates shall be paid.- 

It is expected that a new regulation of the Quarter Master's and other 
staff departments will soon be established on the most economical plans 
whereby much expence will be saved. They will be accommodated to the 
late regulation of making the purchases by the States. The prices of the 
specific articles to be furnished by the States were estimated at about 
50 per cent above the prices in 1774. They include all expences of pur- 
chasing and delivering them into the magazines. The motives for adopt- 
ing that measure were, the rendering the supplies more certain and equable 
arnong the States, and to prevent frauds and abuses, and the aid of the 
States in procuring supplies was found to be absolutely necessary.^ 

By a letter from General Lincoln of the 22d ultimo, we are informed 
that part of the British forces that left New York were landed on 
St. John's and James's Islands, near Charlestown, the numbers not ascer- 
tained, but he thinks there is a good prospect of making a succesful oppo- 
sition to them. Mr. Lawrence ^ expected to sail for Europe the 26th of 
Feby. 

103. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Presidext of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^^y Philadelphia 20th March 1780. 

Since the receipt of your letter of Feby. 9th the attention of Congress 
has been so engaged with the Affairs of the army and Finance, as to pre- 

" The report was brought in Feb. 17. The motion there referred to was no doubt 
the motion of Roger Sherman Jan. 4, which was referred to Sherman, Houston, and 
Forbes. The index to the Journals erroneously assigns this committee to Bache's letter. 
On a further motion of Sherman, Mar. 21, the report of Feb. 17 was recommitted, and 
Schuyler was substituted on the committee for Forbes, who was ill and died four days 
later. A new report, drawn bj' Houston, was brought in Mar. 25. For the course of the 
matter see the Journals, Mar. 28-31, Apr. 18, 24. 25, 27, May 2 {cf. May 20, 24), June 
20-22, 26-28. Cj. nos. 120, 128, 142, 281, 286, post. 

3 See nos. yy, 88, 98, note 4, ante, and nos. 102, 109, 128, post. 

* Henry Laurens, chosen commissioner to Holland Oct. 21, 1779. He did not 
however depart upon his mission until Aug. 13, 1780. For some account of the reasons 
for this delay see Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 353-368; also Laurens's letters to the 
committee of foreign affairs, Jan. 24, Feb. 14, 24, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., HL 467, 
494, 516. Meanwhile he was again elected (Feb. i) a delegate to Congress, and occupied 
his seat in that body for a short time before sailing for Holland. 

[103]! Mass. Arch., CCH. 104 (in tlie writing of Gerry, signed by Gerry, Lovell, 
Holten, and Partridge). 



March, 1780 85 

dude an Opportunity of making any propositions respecting the expendi- 
tures of the State in the penobscot expedition ; but we hope this Business 
will not be much longer delayed. The Resolution mentioned in your Let- 
ter would be useful on this occasion, and not being able to find it in the 
Journals, after the most careful Examination thereof, We are under the 
necessity of requesting you to point it out.^ We are nevertheless convinced 
of the Justice of the claim, and shall prefer it to Congress by the earliest 
Oppertunity. 

104. James Lovell to John Adams/ 

March 21st 1780. 

.... It is recommended to redeem the continental Currency at 40 
for I and to model the Tender Laws equitably. It is a Thing of uncertain 
Event and the Bal'ce of Blessings and Cursings consequent cannot shortly 
be fixed. It is one of those Decisions about which much very much may 
and will be said on both Sides. I believe that most of those who said nay 
here on the Determination were glad it was carried agt. them. I cannot 
see how the Continent can suppose that Congress has any seperate Inter- 
est to guide their Determination on this important Point." 

yrs. aflf'ly 

J Lovell 

105. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

2 1 St of March, [1780.] 
Dear Sir, 

.... You will find we have been forced, by the enormous artificial 
Depreciation added to the natural, to come to a decisive Recommendation 
about the Redemption of the present nominal Debt at an equitable Ratio ; 
and consonant Measures as to the Tender Laws.' If our People of Mass. 
are paying as the People of Pensylv. They will be glad to have some Bound 
set to a cruel Fluctuation. I am astonished whenever the Post arrives to 
find I have not a single Line from you, in particular that you have not been 
minute about Vermont or the Resolve of Congress on which the Penob- 
scot Expedition was founded.^ There is no great Task in finding Re- 
solves of a quite contrary Spirit, but my Eyes and Head have suffered in 
Search of what is possitively asserted in a Letter from our State of Feb 
9th. I wish one of the 4 Delegates there had pointed to the Date. I do 
not comprehend Mr. W^ard in that Number. 

We can only go upon the Reason and Justice of the Mass. Claim to be 
reimbursed. 

- Concerning the search for the resolve alluded to see no. 105, post. Concerning 
the Penobscot expedition see the Journals, Mar. 22, Apr. 5-8 ; also no. 69, ante, and nos. 
105, 127, 131, 136, 138. 139, post. 
[104]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 18, 20; cj. nos. 100, loi, 102, note 2, ante. 
[105]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See no. 100, ante. 

3 See Adams's letters to Lovell Mar. 5, 25 {Writings, IV. 180, 183), and nos. 19. 
81, 103, ante. 



86 Continental Congress 

I find nothing more favorable than the ist Resolve at the Head of the 
25th Page of the ist Vol. the bottom of Page loi with the Top of 126, 
Near the Bottom of 127 in Regard to X Carolina. 

The 4th Paragraph Page 171 is ag'st us also the 2d Resolution from 
the Bottom of 235 and what relates to the River Delaware. I shall be 
much ashamed to find that I have overlooked so important a Resolve if it 
really exists.* .... 

106. Samuel Livermore to the President of Xew Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia March 21st, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Our plan of Finance has at length passed the Congress ; but not just as 
I expected. As it is lengthy and you will have it officially transmitted I 
need not copy it. It keeps up the idea of forty for one : but as it proposes 
sinking the whole paper Currency in six years, I fear the burthen will 
prove too great : it depends on the several states adopting the plan by Acts 
of assembly for that purpose, which it is tho't will not be complid with." 

Vermont business hangs by the eyelids, Massa. Bay not ready. ^ I am 
tired of waiting and must set out as soon as travelling will permit.* .... 

107. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia March 21st 1780.^ 
Sir: 

In our last letter we informed your excellency that the haughtiness of 
Great Britain had determined her to try her strength another campaign.^ 

It is unnecessary to say it behoves the United States to be fully prepared 
to resist her greatest efforts ; but it is our duty to tell you plainly that unless 
immediate and essential relief is given to our embarrassed finances it will 
be impracticable. The sinews of war must be braced, and more regular 

* Lovell was presumably using the Aitken edition of the Journals (1777). His 
references accordingly appear to indicate the following resolves, although some of them 
require an exceedingly liberal interpretation to make them applicable to the Penobscot 
case: Oct. 8, 1774: May 15. 1775 (respecting New York): June 23, 1775 (respecting 
New York); June 26, 1775 (respecting North Carolina); July 18, 1775 ("That each 
colony, at their own expence ", etc.); Nov. 4, 1775 (closing, "the expence to be paid 
by the said Colony"). 

[io6]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 160; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 558. 

- See nos. 100, loi, ante, and nos. 107-109. post. 
3 Cf. nos. 108, 126, 127, 138, 187. 188, post. 

* Livermore's term as delegate had already expired. See no. 90, ante. He took 
his departure shortly afterward. See no. 147. post. 

[i07]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 82; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 287. 

- As printed in Staples this letter is dated Alay 21, but the contents clearly show 
that it was written in March. Moreover Collins, who signs the letter with Ellery, was not 
in Philadelphia May 21. He obtained leave of absence May 10, and Ellery says in his 
letter of May 16 (Staples, p. 286) that he "left this place last week, and, it is said, has 
gone home ". 

3 Probably the letter of Mar. i (Staples, p. 274). 



March, lySo 87 

and more ample supplies bro't into the Treasury than it hath received for 
months past or our military preparations must cease and the most perni- 
cious consequences ensue. 

Congress have long seen with alarming apprehensions the crisis to 
which a continued depretiation of our paper currency would one day re- 
duce our affairs. 

They have given frequent and faithful warnings to the several States ; 
and have exerted every power on their part to avert the impending mis- 
chief ; but to little or no purpose. The evil like an uncontrouled torrent 
hath advanced on with rapid progress, and now threatens to overwhelm 
us. Under these circumstances Congress have thought it necessary to 
adopt a new plan of finance; and have accordingly come to the decisive 
resolutions which we now have the honour to inclose to you.* 

The main objects of them you will readily perceive are ; by one opera- 
tion to give an establishment to the paper medium, to realize the nominal 
debt of the United States, and find supplies for the treasury 

io8. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, March 21, 1780. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to refer your Excellency to some important 
resolutions which passed Congress on Saturday, and will be transmitted 
to you by the President.' whether their effect will be such as we wish, 
time alone can discover. Our hopes are sanguine, as the minutes of Con- 
gress will shew that we unanimously concurred in them, we think it proper 
to lay before your Excellency our reasons, not only as a justification of 
our conduct to our constituents if contrary to our expectations the meas- 
ure should not meet with their approbation, but in order to explain more 
fully the principles upon which the determinations of Congress were 
formed. The continued and rapid depreciation, notwithstanding the pres- 
sure of taxes, which was severely felt in many places ; the exhausted state 
of the public treasury; the utter impossibility of procuring a supply in 
any other way, adequate to the demand by taxation, even if the people 
could have submitted to have their burthens doubled upon them, called 
aloud for some firm and decided alteration in our system of finance. In 
vain we endeavored to borrow in aid of the taxes, the monied interest 
availing themselves of our necessities refusing to lend, though we offered 
them near fifty per cent advance on sterling bills. This evil increased upon 
us every day, and loans become more difficult when the depreciated state 
of the currency reduced the relative quantity below what was necessary 
as a medium of commerce, in which situation of things no person would 
lend unless upon such a premium as would be sufficient to indemnify him 
for the capital drawn from trade ; and even then- only slowly, and in small 

* Doubtless the resolutions of Mar. i8. 
[io8]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 107. 

- See the Journals, Mar. 18, and no. 100, note 2, ante. 



88 Continental Congress 

quantities, as the necessities of the public daily giving him hopes for more 
advantageous terms. 

In this situation nothing was left us but some firm and decided meas- 
ure, or public bankruptcy and ruin. We flatter ourselves the part we have 
taken will do justice to individuals as far as it can be done with safety, and 
enable the public to make those exertions on which the happiness of its 
members depend. The farmer will acknowledge the propriety of a measure 
which compels him to pay to the public no more than the value of what has 
been received to his use, and the money holder if he reasons justly, will 
be satisfied with the real worth of the commodity with which he pur- 
chased that money, instead of a visionary wealth which every hour dimin- 
ishes in his hands, and which must have vanished into air, as the cause 
on which it was borne could no longer be supported. The continuation of 
the tax to the amount required, though desirable and to be complied with 
if possible, must however be limited by the situation of every State. 
Perhaps with us it may be advisable after the establishment of funds, to 
take in part of the old by exchange for the new emissions in order to 
lighten the tax ; perhaps too it might be advantageously funded upon our 
confiscated estates and back lands. The resolution to receive specie and the 
new bills at 40 times the nominal value of the bills of credit now in cir- 
culation is founded upon a belief that that is about the average value at 
which it was received by the present possessors of them, this may indeed 
bear hard upon individuals, but in so great a work it cannot but be, that 
private interests must yield to public utility. It may be asked, what will 
secure the new emissions from depreciation? We answer, first the reduc- 
tion of the whole debt to so moderate a compass as to render the payment 
of it easy; second, the funds on which they are to be issued, which it is 
expected will be sufficient to convince the creditor of the public that his 
money rests on a firm basis. These are the only securities a community 
can give, and these have always been sufficient, if a State did not either 
outrun its resources, or neglect to apply them to the maintenance of public 
credit. We flatter ourselves the State will see the necessity of such estab- 
lished system of taxation as will enable the public creditor to calculate the 
value of his security, without which a paper credit must always fluctuate. 
Besides the advantages which we have already stated as the probable con- 
sequences of this measure, and those more obvious benefits that arise 
from throwing off an unjust and cumbrous load of debt which threat- 
ened for ages to clog the industry of our people, From having some fixed 
standard by which to ascertain the pay of our officers, civil and military, 
from checking the idleness and dissipation which a fluctuating medium 
always occasions, and from banishing their baneful spirit of jobbing and 
speculation, which disordered Finances and a heavy public debt never fail 
to give birth to. 

We had reasons arising from the peculiar situation of our State which 
attached us to the measure. We had little room to hope that Congress 
would make us those allowances in the liquidation of the public debt, 
which as we conceived, our distresses entitled us to: since, though they 
acknowledged the weight of our present burthens, yet they seemed to sup- 



March, lySo 89 

pose and perhaps with some degree of justice that our future resources 
were fully sufficient to enable us to bear any proportion of the debt, which 
by the terms of the confederation could be imposed on us. Had they there- 
fore under this impression adopted any system of appreciation for which 
taxation was the basis, our State would have been unable to tax in pro- 
portion to its neighbors, would necessarily have fallen a sacrifice to that 
appreciation. From this evil we are now happily secured, since whatever 
time our necessities may oblige us to take for the redemption of the public 
debt, we are assured that the value of money cannot increase to our ruin. 
We have dwelt thus long upon this subject, because we are sensible that 
a measure in which numbers are interested must have many difficulties to 
struggle with, and impressed with its necessity and importance, we wish 
to bespeak for it the support and patronage of the State. 

The business of the Grants still drags on heavily; ^ at present we are 
prevented from proceeding by the sickness of one of the representatives 
from [Maryland, whose absence breaks up the Congress, if agreeable to 
the Spirit of the resolutions of Sept'r last, the States that are interested 
in the controversy should stand aside. We shall omit no opportunity of 
bringing it on, when a convenient season offers. 

We have the honor to be with the highest respect and esteem. 
Your Excellency's most obt. humble Servts. 

Jno. Morin Scott. 
Wm. Floyd. 
Ph : Schuyler. 
RoBT. R. Livingston, 
Ezra L'Hommedieu, 

109. John Collins to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia, March the 21st, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

I Received yours of the 19th this afternoon, would incloas'd you this 
days paper but make no doubt you will Receive it per post in which you 
will find what accounts we have from Carolina. Europen News we have 
but little, none but what has been published, we may expect another Cam- 
pain Except the Irish affairs diverts our Enemies from it, and if they 
should, it will be happy for this Countrey. 

the Committee fror Regulateing the Quartermasters and Commissarys 
Department have Given in their Report but it has not as yet been Read. 
I will send you a Copy as soon as it is.^ you say you are Exceeding sick 
of your Deparm't and wish to git out of it if it Could be don in Charrec- 
tor. I make no wonder at it, for I know it must be Extreem troublesom. 
I am not able at preasent to give you any advice, but would Readley do it 
if I Could, but I will make this Observation, Popularity once lost justly 
or unjustly, is not easely Regained by the best of men. you are in the 

2 See the Jouriials, Mar. 21 ; cf. no. 106, ante, and nos. 126, 127, 138, 187, 188, 
post. 

[log]! William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 
2 See no. no, note 3, post. 



90 Continental Congress 

prime of life, let not a little dificulty Discorage you. if I can be of any 
service to you you may depend I will serve you as far as is in my power. 

Congress has finished their plan of finance. I will send you the scheem 
per next post. We have goan on the plan adopted by the New England 
States to git rid of their Oald tener, a silver Dollar is to pay 40 paper Boi- 
lers for taxis, and as the money now in Circulation is paid in, it is to be 
Distroyed, and new money issued Carring 5 per Ct. intrest. I hope the 
Scheem will answer as well as it did in New England, but the Event must 
be left to time.^ 

I have not had one line from Rhode Island since I left it. Should be 
glad to hear how the people at large Relish my leaving the State in the 
manner I left it. 

my Respects to your Lady. I am with Regard yours 

Jno. Collins 

no. Philip Schuyler to Nath.\nael Greene/ 

Philadelphia March 22d 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday I was favored with Yours of the i8th Instant. 

On the first day I took my seat In Congress I enquired what Measures 
had been adopted towards a plan for the Military operations of the Cam- 
paign, finding none and being Informed that the propriety of Sending 
for General Washington and you had already been agitated and deemed 
unnecessary. I waved saying any thing on the Subject, and advised the 
General of It, Stating at the Same time the line of Conduct which I had 
pursued with respect to the appointment they had made me as one of their 
Commissioners to arrange the Civil departments of the army, that letter 
his Excellency had not received when Yours was written but as I am In- 
formed It went by a Safe Conveyance from hence. It is probably before 
this come to hand and the General will advise You of Its Contents. Since 
writing that letter the necessity of a Conference with the General and You 
appeared to me to have Increased and It was moved but without Effect — 
this I forgot to advise his Excellency of In my last and Intreat you to do 
It for me." 

There never My Dear Sir since the Commencement of the Contest was 
an hour In which as It appears to me our Affairs were more Critical, and 
perhaps our Councils were never weaker, our Exertions less and torpor 
Greater. I have fruitlessly rang every change on this Subject but despair 
of Inducing measures which have a tendency to extricate us from the 
present distresses and which surround us on all quarters. 

Assailed on the one Side by duty and affection to my Country, on the 
other by those Sensations which cannot permit me to Join in wounding 
the feelings of those I Esteem I am agitated by a dillemma the most dis- 
agreable possible, that You have been treated with Indelicacy and dis- 

3 See no. 100, ante. 
[iio]i Collection of the late James H. Manning of Albany, N. Y. 

- Concerning the proposition to send a committee to camp see nos. 8, note 2, 19, 
note 3, 89, note 4, ante, and nos. iii, 128, 130, post. 



March, I/80 91 

respect I am unhappily too well aware of, that my assent to the offensive 
measures has never been given You will believe, that I have proposed a 
line of Conduct on their part which promised to make Attonement I assure 
You of. I have depricated the Idea of appointing others to form a Sys- 
tem for Your Conduct In the department which You Conduct, and have 
repeatedly recommended to give You power without limitation In the 
business and all that Confidence which It is for the public Interest you 
should have, and without which no man can Effectually Serve It. what 
will be done to Morrow when the report of the Committee and Commis- 
sioners is made I cannot say. I shall be totally Opposed to the Enacting 
of any System whatever, even If I should approve the principles of the 
System, for I wish You to be perfectly free of every Shackle. If they 
enter Into my Views former Sins will In a great measure be done away 
and I shall In that case not think It Inconsistent with my feelings to 
recommend, or with Yours to Continue Your attention to the Important 
department. If you can Continue without a Sacrifice of reputation, you 
will Conceive It Your duty so to do both from public and private Consid- 
erations. In the last I allude Specially to our friend the General, what 
must be his Situation with a New Man and most probably an Incompetent 
one, In a department the head of which, must of necessity be Confiden- 
tially trusted on a variety of Occassions. 

I am happy to find Your sentiments on the Subject of the new adopted 
mode for obtaining Supplies so perfectly Coincident with mine. I have 
more than once openly and without reserve declared that It would draw 
In Its train the ruin of the Army. Letters from Colo : Blaine already tend 
to verify the Assertion, and many Members begin to think with me on the 
Occassion. perhaps It will Introduce a reformation; that It may, and 
that Such measures may be adopted as will Secure us Your Services I most 
Earnestly wish and will most Strenuously Contend for. Let me Intreat 
You to take no hasty decided measure ; Your Country is in danger. Your 
General and Your friend In distress, and Your friends here feel for both 
of You.^ Adieu. I am D'r Sir with truth and Esteem Your most Obedt 
Hu[mble] Servant 

P Schuyler 

III. Philip Schuyler to George \V.\shington.^ 

Philadelphia March 22d 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I do not recollect If [I] advised you that the propriety of a Con- 
ference with Your Excellency had a second time been Insisted on, and 
that the same opinion as on the first was prevalent.' 

^ Cf. nos. 26, 61, 77, log. ante, and nos. 120, note 3, 128, 156, t>osf. See also 
Washington to Schuyler Mar. 22 and 31 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VI. 489, VII. 3). to 
Greene Mar. 26 {ibid., VI. 492), and Greene to Washington Mar. 31, Apr. 2 {Letters 
to Washington, ed. Sparks, II. 422, 426). Other correspondence between Washington and 
Greene on the subject is in the Washington Papers. 
[ 1 1 1 ] ^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 
- See no. no, note 2, ante. 



92 Continental Congress 

Messrs. Sherman and Jones are to morrow to report the System they 
In Conjunction with Gen: Mifflin and Mr. Pickering have formed for 
Conducting the Civil department of the Army. I am afraid (from what 
I have learnt) It will not only be Inadequate but If adopted wound, or 
rather give additional Soreness to the wounds already given the O. M : G. 
as I do not Concieve In our present Circumstances that any System how- 
ever Judiciously Compiled can apply I shall do my endeavours so far to 
overturn the proposed one as that If even good, It shall only go as recom- 
mendatory, this may probably make some attonement for the Indelicate 
Inattention which Gen : Greene has Experienced. I have Intreated him 
to take no hasty decided Step and have taken the liberty to point at the 
Consequences of a change In that department at this Conjuncture.^ 

112. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 23, 1780.^ 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 2 1 St Instant, Recommending to the Governments of the several States 
to suspend making new Appointments of Officers in the Regiments of 
their respective Lines except when the Commander in Chief or Com- 
manding Officer in the Southern Department shall deem such appointment 
indispensibly necessary.^ 

The Design of this Act is to aid the Intentions of Congress in retrench- 
ing the supernumerary Officers as soon as Circumstances will admit with- 
out doing Injury or Injustice to the Officers.* .... 

113. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 23d, 1780. 
Sir, 

We are honored with your Excellency's dispatches of the loth instant, 
by Brown, and shall pay due attention to the several matters and instruc- 
tions therein communicated. In particular, with regard to debts due in 
Connecticut for beef purchased under the late Commissary General Wads- 
worth, we shall again urge in Congress, as we repeatedly have done, the 

3 C/. nos. 98, no, ante, and nos. 128, 130, post. The report on the quarter- 
master's department is in the Journals, 'Slav. 27. 

[ii2]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 320; ibid., Washington Papers; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VIIL 142. 

2 " Congress have adjourned to Saturday, tomorrow is good Friday" (Holten, 
Diary, Mar. 23). 

3 Cf. no. 113, post. 

4 The letter-book copy has this notation : " N. B. The same excepting the last 
paragraph to New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts Bay, New Hampshire, General 
Washington, and Genl. Lincoln." Th'e additional paragraph to Governor Trumbull sum- 
marized the action respecting Jesse Brown, the express rider. The letter to Washington 
also omits this paragraph respecting the design of the act. 

[iiSl^Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HL 30 (signed by Sherman and 
Ellsworth). 



March, 1780 93 

necessity of furnishing money to discharge them. But, Sir, there have 
been many and urgent calls for money which it has been impossible for 
Congress, with a nearly exhausted treasury, to comply with : and the same 
difficulties will remain so long as the several States are dilatory in col- 
lecting their quotas of money, or when collected apply it to other pur- 
poses than the payment of continental warrants. 

The reduction of the battalions in the continental army is a matter now 
before Congress, but is attended with difficulties. Tho' oeconomy pleads 
strongly in favour of the measure, yet it is doubtful whether there will be 
sufficient time to adjust and settle an intire new arangement of the army 
before they may be called to take the field ; and as every new arangement 
is also found to be a new source of discontent, it is the opinion of some 
to postpone this reduction until there shall be fewer other causes of dis- 
content in the army than at present. It has also been observed that should 
the battalions not be reduced at this juncture, yet considerable savings 
may be made by the several States forbareing to fill up vacancies in their 
respective lines, which are already numerous should they not become more 
so. Our endeavours however shall not be wanting to carry our instruc- 
tions upon this head into efifect." .... 

114. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 23, 1780. 
Sir, 

Permit me as a private citizen to express my wishes that the late reso- 
lutions of Congress on the subject of finance may meet your Excellency's 
approbation and support." Your Excellency must have long seen with 
alarming apprehensions the crisis to which a continued depreciation of the 
paper currency would one day reduce our affairs. It is now. Sir, just at 
hand. Without more stability in the medium, and far more ample sup- 
plies in the treasury than for months past, it will be impossible for our 
military preperations to proceed, and the army must disband. The pres- 
ent moment is indeed critical, and if let slip the confusion and distress will 
be infinite. This. Sir. is precisely the point of time for the several Legis- 
latures to act decidedly and in a manner that the world will forever call 
wise. It is now in their power by a single operation to give a sure estab- 
lishment for publick credit, to realize the publick debt at its just value, 
and, without adding to the burdens of the people, to supply the treasury. 
To furnish one common ground to unite their exertions upon for the 
accomplishment of these great purposes, your Excellency will easily per- 
ceive to be the spirit and design of the resolutions above referred to. They 
speak a language too plain to need any comment. I will only add concern- 
ing them that they have been the product of much labor and discussion : 

-See the Journals, Mar. 20, 21, 25; cj. nos. 8, note 2, 11, 112, ante, and nos. 145. 
172, 206, post. 

[114]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., III. 28. 
2 The reference is to the resolutions of Mar. 18. 



94 Continental Congress 

and tho' some States may have reason for thinking they are not the best 
possible, yet they are the best Congress could agree upon ; and should these 
be rejected I confess I do not well see on what ground the common exer- 
tions of the several States are to be united and continued hereafter. 

Your Excellency will forgive me the very great freedom of this letter, 
and permit me the honor of subscribing myself, 
With the highest resj^ect, 

Your Excellency's most obedt., humbl. servt. 

Oliv'r Ellsworth. 

115. The Secretary of Congress (Charles Thomson) to the 
Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philada. March 23, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am honoured with your letter of the loth instant, accompanied with 
sundry state papers, for which I thank you and shall have them deposited 
in the office. My view is to have as compleat a collection of the public 
papers of every State as I can deposited here, where the delegates from the 
several States may have access to them, and as the governments are new 
and doubtless many experiments must be made in legislation before they 
can reach perfection, I would wish to have the first essays as well as those 
perfected by experience. The former may to a legislator in another State 
be almost as useful as the latter. They may serve as landmarks and teach 
him the folly of repeating or attempting a similar law in his own State, 
and thus by the experience of one benefit may redound to all.' 

I now enclose you the Journal of Congress for Feby. last, and am, with 
due respect. 

Your Excellency's most obedient humble servt. 

Chas. Thomson. 

116. Thomas McKean to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Dear Sir, 

Your esteemed favour, of the 1 5th last month, with extracts from your 
much injured brother's letter, to the President of Congress, and the copy 
of Doctor Berkenhout's letter to yourself, inclosed, came safe to hand.- 
Next to the approbation of my own conscience, it has always been my wish 
to obtain that of the wise and good, and I confess I am happy in having 
yours. I flatter myself the time will shortly come, when the honest labor- 
ers in the cause of freedom and their country, will at least meet with the 

[iiSl^Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 32. 

- See no. 31, ante. 

[ii6]iAm. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, II. 138, no. 38; Lee, Memoir of Richard Henry 
Lee, II. 176. 

- Lee's letter of Feb. 15 to McKean is not found in Letters of Richard Henry Lee 
(ed. Ballagh), but he had evidently enclosed to McKean a copy of the pamphlet con- 
taining principally Arthur Lee's letter of Feb. 10, 1779, of which he had had 500 copies 
printed and had been distributing. See his letter to Samuel Adams Jan. 18, to Governor 
Trumbull Jan. 22, to Roger Sherman Jan. 22, and to Arthur Lee .A.pr. 24. Ibid., II. 168, 172, 
173. 175- 



March, lySo 95 

reward of being known ; and when also the double-dealing artful pre- 
tenders will be discovered 

There has been a virtuous band in Congress from the beginning of the 
present contest, but they were never so few, or so much opposed as just 
after you and your good brother left us. In the Winter and Spring of 
1 779 there w'as a cabal whose views I could not fathom ; there were some 
possessed of restless spirits, and who endeavoured to set member against 
member, and the Congress against the states, particularly Pennsylvania 
and those of New-England, and the states agst. Congress. Every artifice 
was used to instil prejudices against all our foreign Ministers and Com- 
missioners, particularly your brothers, and I really believe, if I had not in 
April last gone off the Bench into Congress, in the face of a Vote of the 
Assembly of Pennsylvania, that they would have been recalled without 
exception. My fears were that at that critical period, when it had been 
propagated in Europe, and some uneasiness discovered on that score by the 
court of France, that we were listening to overtures from Great Britain, 
a change of men might have implied a change of measures and given some 
countenance to the report ; and for this reason I thought it wrong to recal 
any Gentleman in such a conjuncture. The vote was taken with respect to 
Doctor Franklin, and being determined in the negative, it was postponed 
as to the rest until I was absent on the circuit.^ Places I saw were sought 
after [by some ?] and vacancies were necessary for the purpose of obtain- 
ing them, but I could not think this was the only thing in contemplation ; 
tho' I may have been mistaken, as harmony seemed to be restored in some 
measure, upon the appointment of Messrs. Jay and Carmichael. The death 
of Mr. Drayton, and the considerable change about that time of the mem- 
bers, several of them not having been re-elected, left us pretty quiet ever 
since, tho' prejudices still too much prevail. 

When I reflect on the assiduity, the zeal, the fidelity, the abilities and 
patriotism of Doctor A. Lee, I cannot help deploring his fate, and repro- 
bating the ingratitude of Congress ; but Sir, it is with pleasure I can assure 
you, that he has many unshaken friends still remaining in that Body, who 
have never seen him, and who esteem him only for his public virtues. I 
profess myself one of these, and he has at least my warmest thanks for his 
substantial services rendered to my country. 

I cannot think it any reflection on a Gentleman's heart, that he has been 
mistaken in entertaining too good an opinion of another, nor am I at all 
surprized that even you should have been led into an error with respect to 
Doctor Berkenhout, after perusing his letter, and knowing his insinuating 
address ; but I shall say no more on this head, as I am really appologizing 
for myself. 

^ It would appear from the Journals that McKean came into Congress Apr. 22, 
1779. cast his vote against the recall of Franklin, and immediately took his departure. 
See these Letters, vol. IV., pp. 173 n., 174 (Fell's Diary, Apr. 23, 1779). In a letter to 
John Adams Nov. 8, 1779 {ibid., p. 510), McKean says, "Doctor Franklin, I really 
believe, would have been recalled last April only for myself ". The letter to Adams and 
the statement to Lee, above, would seem to suggest that McKean was an active par- 
ticipant in the proceedings of Congress during April of that year, whereas the Journals 
record only a brief attendance on one day, Apr. 22. 
II 



96 Continental Congress 

The deranged state of our finances has given us infinite trouble and 
concern; A new plan has been adopted, which is published in the News- 
Papers, to which I shall refer you — if it can be carried into execution it 
will be a great relief to us ; and I see nothing else left but for every Whig 
to exert himself in its support. 

There is no great prospect of peace, tho' the late intelligence from 
Europe is otherwise favorable. I suspect that Mr. Temple/ (who came 
over in 1778 with Doctor Berkenhout,) will shortly venture here again 
with propositions (perhaps secret) to acknowledge the Independence of 
the States, except South Carolina and Georgia, and that part of Massa- 
chusetts, formerly called the Province of Main, on condition of our neu- 
trality between Britain and Spain — he is to have power to draw on two 
merchants in London, of his own nomination ad libitum. This is not mere 
conjecture or report ; but it may not be attempted to be carried into execu- 
tion, as I think, upon the best reflection he must despair of success. Can 
they suppose that these States will be so perfidious to one another, or to 
the auxiliary of their Ally — that they are so corrupt, so base ? Can they 
be taught to believe, that a virtuous people can grow so extremely wicked 
by a war of five years continuance? Nemo repente fitit turpissimus. 

Philadelphia March 25th 1780. 

117, Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[March 25-27, 1780.] 
2^. The Hon. Mr. Forbes, a member from the State of Maryland, 
deceased. I dined with the minister of France. 

26. I attended the funeral of Mr. Forbes. Colo. Hendley ^ arrived 
here. 

2/ Congress had letters from Mr. J. Adams. 

118. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 
Dear Sir Philadelphia March 27th 1780. 

Nothing under the title of news has occurred since I wrote last week by 
express^ except that the Enemy on the ist of March remained in the 

* Cf. nos. 96-98, ante. 
[117]! Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 91. 

2 This was doubtless Col. David Henley of the firm of Otis' and Henley. A 
memorial in behalf of his firm was presented to Congress May 24. See, further, the 
Journals, May 26, June 17, 28. It happens that a letter from Samuel Adams to James 
Lovell in behalf of the firm was written on the day of Henley's arrival in Philadel- 
phia, although Adams does not mention that he had gone thither. The letter is in 
Adams's Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 142, among the letters of 1779. It is in fact 
one of three additions to Adams's letter of Mar. 25, 1780, to Lovell (ibid,, p. 183). 
See no. 132, post. 

[ii8]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings of Madison (ed. 
Hunt), I. 59. 

The Madison Papers listed as Accession 1081, acquired by the Library of Congress in 
1910, were not used by Dr. Gaillard Hunt in his edition of Madison's Writings (New 
York, 1900-1910), although they had been used by Henry D. Gilpin in the Papers of 
James Madison (Washington, 1840). Gilpin however made many omissions from the 
letters, and Hunt only reprinted such texts of those letters as were found in the Papers. 
Accordingly, while there are numerous excisions from the letters as printed in the pres- 
ent collection of Letters, many passages have been included which are not found in the 
printed texts named. 

2 This letter has not been found. 



March, 1780 97 

neighbourhood of Charlestown in the same posture as when the preceding 
account came away. From the best intelligence from that quarter there 
seems to be great encouragement to hope that Clintons operations will be 
again frustrated. Our great apprehensions at present flow from a very 
different quarter. Among the various conjunctures of alarm and distress 
which have arisen in the course of the revolution, it is with pain I affirm to 
vou Sir. that no one can be singled out more truly critical than the present. 
Our army threatened with an immediate alternative of disbanding or liv- 
ing on free quarter; the public treasury empty; public credit exhausted, 
nay the private credit of purchasing Agents employed, I am told, as far 
as it will bear, Congress complaining of the extortion of the people; the 
people of the improvidence of Congress, and the army of both ; our affairs 
requiring the most mature and systematic measures, and the urgency of 
occasions admitting only of temporizing expedients, and these expedients 
generating new difficulties ; Congress from a defect of adequate States- 
men more likely to fall into wrong measures and of less weight to enforce 
right ones,^ recommending plans to the several states for execution and 
the states separately rejudging the expediency of such plans, whereby the 
same distrust of concurrent exertions that has damped the ardor of patri- 
otic individuals must produce the same effect among the states them- 
selves — an old system of finance discarded as incompetent to our necessi- 
ties, an untried and precarious one substituted, and a total stagnation in 
prospect between the end of the former and the operation of the latter. 
These are the outlines of the true picture of our public situation. I leave 
it to your own imagination to fill them up. Believe me Sir as things now 
stand, if the States do not vigorously proceed in collecting the old money 
and establishing funds for the credit of the new, that we are undone ; and 
let them be ever so expeditious in doing this, still the intermediate distress 
to our army and hindrance to public affairs, are a subject of melancholy 
reflection. Gen. Washington writes that a failure of bread has already 
commenced in the army ; and that, for any thing he sees, it must unavoid- 
ably increase. Meat they have only for a short season and as the whole 
dependance is on provisions now to be procured, without a shilling for the 
purpose, and without credit for a shilling, I look forward with the most 
pungent apprehensions. It will be attempted I believe to purchase a few 
supplies with loan office certificates ; but whether they will be received is 
perhaps far from being certain; and if received will certainly be a most 
expensive and ruinous expedient. It is not without some reluctance I trust 
this information to a conveyance by post, but I know of no better at pres- 
ent, and I conceive it to be absolutely necessary to be known to those who 
are most able and zealous to contribute to the public relief. 

March 28.* 

Authentic information is now reed, that the Enemy in their passage to 
Georgia lost all their Horse, the Defiance of 64 guns which foundered at 

5 The words between " Congress " and " recommending " are not in the printed 
text ; nor, in the next sentence, the word " true " before " picture ". 

* This addition of March 28 is not in the printed text. The remainder is a sum- 
mary of John Adams's letter of Dec. 16, 1779. Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 427. 



98 Continental Congress 

sea, three transports with troops, although it is pretended these troops and 
the men of the Defiance were saved, and one transport with Hessians of 
which nothing has been heard 

119. James Lovell to Samuel Adams/ 

March 28th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We are really in Pain here continually about Supplies of every 
Kind. No Man can tell what will be the Event of the Measures recom- 
mended to the States. It lays with the Farmer to say whether he will at 
any Rate furnish the Army. He may see now that his Labors are not 
mortgaged for Generations to make Silver and Gold of That which by 
general Consent has been reduced to meer Rags a second Time. The whole 
daily Allowance which you mention " will not here purchase two Pounds 
of Mutton, the Price of that Article being from 13 to 15 Dollars pr. lb. 
Indeed, Sir, I am totally unable to go on at this Rate. For if I could do 
without any Cloathing myself will my whole Income give Food alone to 
my Dependents ? Yet they look for Raiment also from my Labors. 

You will have accounts from your military Officers in regard to the 
Wants of the Army. Transportation is the grand Difficulty at this Period. 
Our public Horses have been starved for Want of Forage tho' there has 
been given to that Department almost Paper enough to litter the whole 
number. 

By Mr. Partridge ^ I shall send my Accounts his Expenditures being a 
just Test of mine lately; and as to former Time the moderate Footing will 
be sufficient 

120. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia Mar. 28th, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... The report for ascertaining the value of the loan office certifi- 
cates is to be taken into consideration to day.^ a report was made Yes- 
terday by Commissioners for a new arrangement of the Quarter Masters 
department, and for forwarding the Supplies procured by the Several 
States, to the Army.^ We have no news from the Southward but what is 
included in the Paper enclosed. I expect to return home next Week. 

[iigl^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The reference is to Adams's letter of Mar. 5 (Writmgs, IV. 180), which 
Lovell mentions in the beginning of his letter as " received yesterday ". In it Adams 
says : " I wish you would send your Account of Time and Expences to the Assembly. 
Twenty five Dollars pr Day and Expences were allowd to me for the year 79. I inform 
you of this that you may judge whether the Allowance for Time and Service is raisd 
in Proportion to other things." 

3 Partridge took his departure Apr. 9. See no. 131, {^ost. 

[i2o]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 165; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, 

P- 574. 

~ See no. 102, note 2, ante, and nos. 142, 281, 286, post. 

3 See nos. 19, note 3, 110, note 3, iii, ante. The report of the committee and 
commissioners, which is found in the Journals under March 27, is characterized by 



March, J /So 99 

Schuyler (no. 128, post) as "'the first part of a voluminous system" (it occupies 38 pages 
of manuscript and 18 pages of printed text). The committee was instructed to confer 
on the subject with General Greene, who had come to Philadelphia the day before, hav- 
ing been urged to do so by General Washington, to endeavor to bring matters respect- 
ing his department to a full explanation and conclusion (Greene to President Huntington, 
Apr. 3). Greene had for several months been setting forth to Congress and to Washington 
the difficulties of his situation, and as long ago as Dec. 12, 1779, had asked leave to 
resign (see vol. IV., pp. 539, 542, 543, and the Journals, Dec. 17. 1779). That letter, as 
well as a subsequent one of Jan. 13, had been referred to a comrnittee, and when Greene 
had waited another month for an answer and received none he wrote Congress again 
(Feb. 16). Referring particularly to his letter of Dec. 12, he said: "This representation 
is, I trust, too important not to be deemed worthy the particular notice of Congress. 
I shall be obliged to consider its being unanswered as a full proof, that it is their wish 
the Agents should all be dismissed ; and that all further provision for future operations 
be discontinued; and shall govern myself accordingly. I ever have thought, and still 
think myself bound to accommodate my conduct to the views and wishes of Congress, 
whether implied or expressed, as far as the nature and circumstances of the trust com- 
mitted to my care will admit." This letter was referred (Feb. 22) to the same commit- 
tee to whom the previous letters had been assigned. It was not however until Mar. 4 
that the committee offered the draft of a reply, and it was not until Mar. 16 that the 
reply was adopted. Extracts of Greene's letters of Dec. 12 and Jan. 13 are in Greene, 
Life of Greene. II. 259, 264. 

Writing to Washington Mar. 22, Greene said : " I shall set out early in the morning 
for Philadelphia ; but can plainly see, little is to be expected from it ; unless it is dis- 
missing myself from the department ; which I most devoutly wish." He adds : " I am 
very confident there is a party business going on again; and as Mifflin is connected 
with it, doubt nothing of its being a revival of the old scheme." Ibid., p. 274. 

Mifflin himself furnishes contributory evidence that Greene's opinion was at least in 
part correct. Mar. 23 he wrote to General Gates : " I have been three Weeks under the 
character of State Cobbler — our Report will go in To Morrow. It is founded on some 
of your old Ideas which we found must in Spite of Envy and Pride and Malice come 
again in Fashion" (N. Y. Hist. Soc. Gates Papers, XVII.). The next day being 
Good Friday there was no meeting of Congress, and the report does not appear to have 
been presented until Monday, Mar. 27. The following day (Mar. 28) Greene wrote to 
Washington : 

" Yesterday I had a conference with a committee of Congress. The public is insol- 
vent to all intents and purposes. The treasury is without money, and the Congress 
are without credit The best people in Congress think the new system for draw- 
ing supplies from the States, will be found totally incompetent to the business. There 
is a new arrangement of the Quarter Master Department made by Mifflin and others, 
and now under consideration before Congress for adoption. The scheme is too complex 
and tedious, for such heavy and pressing demands as are frequently made upon the 
Department. I am told it is to be confirmed without alteration. General Schuyler and 

others think it will starve the Army in ten days General Schuyler and others 

consider it a plan of Mifflins, to injure your Excellencys operation. Mr. Shearman and 
Mifflin are in close league in the business. I am now fully convinced of the reality of 
what I suggested to your Excellency before I came away." Library of Congress, Wash- 
ington Papers ; Life of Greene, II. 275. 

March 31 Greene again wrote to Washington, commenting in particular upon the 
situation in Congress. Among other things he said : " The business of finance is yet a 
matter of speculation. Nothing can be determined upon it from present appearances. 
Most people are silent upon the subject ; and this I interpret into a favorable symptom. 
I find the measure passed in Congress but by a majority of one; and the Members are 
more split and divided about the matter now, than any other order of men; indeed 
some of them reprobate the measure 

" Nothing is done on the Quarter Master Department. The new System I mentioned 
in my last, is yet undecided on. The more I view it the less I like it, and the stronger 
my conviction is, that it is calculated not less to embarrass your Excellency, than to 
disgrace and injure me" (ibid.; Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, II. 422). See, 
further, nos. 128, 156, post. 

* The paper enclosed by Sherman was probably either the Pennsylvania Gazette 
or the Pennsylvania Journal of Mar. 22, each of which contained an " Extract of a letter 
from Charlestown (South Carolina), Feb. 25, 1780. Arrived by an express last Saturday 
night ". The item mentions the distribution of the British army, supposed to be under the 
command of Sir Henry Clinton, at Port Royal, John's Island, Stono Ferry, and James 
Island, with a table of distances to Charleston from various points. The American de- 
fenses, it is stated, are being strengthened, although the forces are too weak for such 
extended lines. 



100 Continental Congress 

121. Abraham Clark to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philada. March 30, 1780.- 
Sir, 

There is now stored at or near Squan a quantity of Blankets designed 
for the use of the Army ; These with other Articles of Cloathing are under 
the direction of the board of War 'till put under the care of the Clothier 
General. How and from whence those blankets came to the above place, 
I am not able to inform your Excellency, but it appears they are of Brit- 
ish Manufacture and on that Account liable to seizure, and it is said that 
a Number of the Inhabitants of New Jersey having knowledge of the said 
goods are determined to avail themselves of the Law authorizing Seizure 
in case of removal ; This embarrasses the board of War. The Law eluded 
[sici to impowers the Commander in Chief of the Army or your Excel- 
lency to grant pass ports for tlie safe conveyance of any goods even in 
case they Actually come out of the Enemies Lines. As those blankets are 
the property of the United States, and at this time much wanted, the 
granting of a pass port for their safe removal appears a Necessary and 
Justifiable measure, for the obtaining which, the Secretary of the board 
of War will wait upon your Excellency, which I presume your Excellency 
will not hesitate in granting, or advising the Commander in chief of the 
Army to do it, that the board may proceed in the business with Safety.' 

122. John Dickinson to Arthur Lee.^ 

Sir, 

.... As to the Subject of your last, I count it a real Misfortune, that 
an Apprehension of Duty to my Country in discharging a Trust reposed 
in Me, should compell Me to act in such a Manner as to give pain to a 
Man I sincerely esteem, and to draw Complaints from one whom I affec- 
tionately wish to oblige, and to the utmost of my power to honour. 

Do not imagine. Sir, that the " arts of " your " Enemies " have erased 
from my mind those favorable Sentiments I have ever entertained of You, 
since I have had the Pleasure of your Acquaintance. 

Your Friends can witness, that throughout the Debates in Congress 
relating to You, I allways bore open and faithful Testimony of the Abil- 
ity, Zeal, Courage, Integrity and Diligence manifested by You in the sup- 
port of our Cause; and that in Confirmation of what I said, I mentioned 
your Correspondence with Me in very dangerous Circumstances on points 
of the last Importance. 

[121]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Under Mar. 30 Samuel Holten records in his Diary, " Mr. Maderson and 
Mr. Killosh dined with us ". They were doubtless James Madison and Francis Kinloch. 

3 This letter (original) was transmitted to Washington by Governor Livingston 
Apr. 3, with the remark that, as it was an affair wholly pertaining to the army, it seemed 
most proper that the passport should come from General Washington, but that he was 
ready to lend his concurrence if Washington deemed it necessary. Washington trans- 
mitted the passport to Governor Livingston Apr. 4. 

[i22]iN. Y. Pub., Lib., Misc. MSS.. Dickinson; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Trans.. V. 20; 
R. H. Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, IL 313. 



March, I/80 101 

They also can testify, that I more than once in Congress exprest an 
earnest Concern, that the Question to be voted on was so worded, that if 
determined on one side, it would seem to injure You, and actually pro- 
posed an Alteration of the Question. 

Your Brother Colonel R. H. Lee will do Me the Justice to acknowledge, 
that I laid my Difficulties before him, prior to the Decision and desired, 
that your Friends might all unite [in] procuring You some other Appoint- 
ment than that to Spain, that in Consequence of some Intelligence You 
had in Holland, which he mentioned to Me, I proposed to him an Employ- 
ment there at present and that I represented to him the Impossibilty, in 
my Opinion, of supporting in Congress the Commission to Spain. 

In mentioning these Things I cannot forbear saying, that it appeared 
plain to Me, that if some of those who truly loved You, had not mingled 
too refined a Policy with their Affection, the Vote would not have look'd 
so severe as it does : Nor, when they perceived, that some Gentlemen who 
thought the employing You in Spain unadviseable, were at the same Time 
averse to any Resolution that might tho only by Implication reflect on 
your Honor, they seemed to expect some Advantage even from the Harsh- 
ness of the Question. 

But, while I thus interested Myself in what concerned my Friend, the 
Conduct You object to was influenced by two Reasons, that leaving the 
Qualities of your Head and Heart unimpeach'd, would have led Me to the 
same Conclusion, if You had been my Brother. Those were, a Coolness in 
the Court of Versailles towards You, and the Diflference with Dr. Frank- 
lin. When it was considered, that the Connection between the Branches 
of the House of Bourbon is so intimate, and that a Harmony between 
Ministers who are to negotiate with them, especially on the same Subject, 
and those most momentous ones, is so necessary, all private Regards gave 
Way to the Superior Force of public Obligations. To wound, and mourn, 
falls to the Lot of more than " Brutus "." 

Kent March 30th, 1780 ' 

123. The Board of Admiralty to the Commissioners of the 
Navy Board of the Eastern Department.^ 

March 31, 1780. 
Sirs, 

The enclosed are Copies of Papers sent by Captain John Orde senior 
Officer Commanding the British Ships of war at Halifax, directed to 
Congress and by them referred to this Board, who are of opinion that you 
Gentlemen should make a strict enquiry into the truth of these allegations, 
and report thereon to this Board as soon as may be. By Captain Ordes 
letter it is probable the Owner of the schooner may be at Boston, if so, 

2 For the proceedings in Congress to which this letter chiefly refers see the 
Journals, March to June, 1779, passim. 

3 Dickinson was chosen in December, 1779, a delegate for the state of Delaware 
but did not attend during the period covered by this volume. 

[123]! Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee and Board of Admiralty, II. I75- 



102 Continental Congress 

and the facts relative to the Clandestine taking of said Schooner be true, 
the Boards opinion is that she should be restored to the owner with all 
reasonable damages that have accrued to him by said Capture, but this 
should by no means be made a Continental Charge, as the Privateer 
Revenge was private property.^ Your letter of the 24th of November 
mentions a Box of types. Paper and other Materials for Counterfeiting 
the Currency, taken by Captain Nicholson and lodged in your custody. 
It is the direction of Congress that the same be forwarded in a secure way 
to the Treasury office in Philadelphia. The Board have yesterday reported 
to Congress a plan for furnishing you with Money, by the Sale of Rum 
and sugars in the possession of Mr. Bradford, that you may be enabled to 
supply Colo. Langdon etc : ^ I am directed again to urge your transmitting 
the general Accounts, and also that you will furnish the Board with the 
names and present condition of the Packet Boats under your direction. 

I am Sir's 

Your Hble servant 

John Brown Secy 

124. Elbridge Gerry to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia 3d April 1780. 
Sir, 

I was honored on the 22d of February last, with your Letter inclosing 
a Resolution of Congress of the same Date ; " and having since been fre- 
quently informed by Members of the House, that there was a general Dis- 
position therein, to consider with Candor my Letter of the 19th Feby last, 
I have patiently waited more than a Month for an Answer to the same. 
I have also omitted to communicate the affair to the State which I have 
the Honor to represent, lest their Harmony with Congress might be inter- 
rupted at a Time when the publick Interest renders it necessary, that every 
State should support them, but seeing no longer a prospect of being 
restored to the privilege of a Member, or even of having my Claim to it 
considered, painful as it is to contend with a Body of which I have long 
been a Member, or to adopt any Measures which may appear inconsistent 
with an ardent Desire to promote their Dignity and Honor, I am never- 
theless constrained by a Sense of Duty to my Country and Constituents, to 
enter into a full and free Discussion of this Subject, and to close it with 
Congress. 

The Decission of Congress " that I was not in order in requiring the 
Yeas and Nays on a Question of Order " was, as I conceive, clearly against 
the Rules and Usage of the House, referred to in the Letter last men- 
tioned : Congress have undoubtedly a Right to alter these whenever they 
think it expedient, but they will give me Leave to deny their Authority, for 

- The letter of Captain Orde, which was read in Congress Mar. 27, has not been 
found. 

3 Such a report is found under Mar. 29; see also the Journals, May 27, June 13. 
Cf. no. 38, ante. See also Out-Letters, II. 165. 167, 180, 184. 194. 206, 210, 211. 
[124]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. X., f. 211. 

- See nos. 55, 59, ante. 



April, I/80 103 

determining that a Member is out of Order, when he conducts agreably to 
both, had Congress at that Time tho't it necessary, and actually passed 
a Resolution to discontinue the Yeas and Nays on Questions of order, still 
it is difficult to conceive, that as impartial Judges, they could determine a 
^Member to have been out of order, for using that privilege previous to the 
passing of such a Resolve. 

If that Decission was intended as an Act for discontinuing this privi- 
lege, it may be necessary to enquire, how the States are to be informed of 
the Conduct of their respective Members in Congress? or, by what Means 
the Fountain of the Confederacy is to be kept pure, and Members sup- 
ported in the faithful Discharge of their Trust? perhaps it will be said, 
that the privilege of requiring the Yeas and Nays is still continued, 
excepting on questions of Order, and is sufficient for the purposes men- 
tioned, but the Answer to this is plain, that the Conduct of Members may 
thus appear on all propositions decided by Congress ; but will be concealed 
on all Motions by them suppressed, which is the particular Greivance 
now complained of. under such Circumstances, if a Alember makes a 
Motion, and a Majority are disposed to be arbitrary, they may call him 
" to order ", and silence him. whilst strictly conforming to the Rules of 
Usage of the House — they may thus prevent propositions, however use- 
ful and necessary, from being considered by Congress — they may for par- 
tial or private purposes, devise and pass plausible Resolutions, and refuse 
to consider Motions for detecting the fallacy of, or for amending them — 
they may continue to debar particular Members from the Use of their 
privileges, and, by preventing Entries on the Journals, may conceal from 
the States, the Conduct of themselves, and others, in the premisses. 
Whereas, by continuing the Yeas and Nays on Questions of Order, every 
Member may have an Oppertunity to check or expose such arbitrary pro- 
ceedings : and the Stigma will rest on those who adopt them. But what is 
the Sense of Congress, and of the several States on the Subject, in the 
Articles of Confederation? therein it is expressly provided, "that the 
yeas and Nays of the Delegates of each State on any Question, shall be 
entered on the Journal, when it is desired by any Delegate " : from whence 
it is evident, that no Member can be deprived of the privilege of having 
the Yeas and Nays on a question of Order, when the Articles of the Con- 
federacy are fully ratified, without a direct Violation thereof. 

If on the other Hand, the Decission was not intended to discontinue 
this privilege. I am no longer at a Loss for the Reasons of its not being 
entered on the Journals ; because it would thus become a general Rule, 
and equally affect the several Members, but the proceedings of Congress 
on this occasion, will still appear extraordinary; for they have not only 
adjudged a Member to be out of order, whilst strictly conforming to the 
Rules and Usage of the House, but leaving these unaltered, which establish 
the contested privilege, they have in Effect determined, that Congress 
have a Right to support some, and restrain other Alembers in the Use of 
the same privilege, and have thus impaired that equal Representation in 
Congress, which is considered by the States so essential to their Liberties. 



104 Continental Congress 

With Respect to the Resolution of Congress of the 2 2d of Feby last, 
relative to the Mode of hearing a Member who thinks himself aggreived, 
It may suffice to shew, that it does not apply to the present Case, the Re- 
solve is as follows " That any Member thinking his privilege infringed 
by anything said or done in the House, ought of Right to be heard in his 
Place ". It appears by the Journals of that Date, that the Words " and 
not otherwise " were moved as part of the original Proposition, and re- 
jected by a Division of the House: by what Rule of Construction then 
does the Resolve determine, that a Member shall not " be heard " unless 
" in his Place["] ? but should even this be admitted, yet it is presumed, 
that Congress did not mean to subject a Member to an ex post Facto Act, 
which under the appearance of regulating the Mode of supporting his 
Claim, materially affects the Claim itself. When an essential privilege of 
a Member is infringed by Congress, and he cannot obtain Redress, it be- 
comes his Duty to appeal to his Constituents ; and how is he to make his 
Conduct appear, if in defending his privilege he is confined to the Mode 
prescribed by the Resolve? should he propose in his place any Entry to 
be made on the Journals. Congress may prevent it : and if he is unguarded 
in his Expressions to the House, they may order the same to be recorded, 
whilst those of other Members to him, however exceptionable, may pass 
unnoticed, an Instance of this happened at York Town, and may occur 
to the Memory of a Gentleman now in Congress, who will do me the 
Justice to acknowledge, that with him I then opposed such ungenerous 
proceedings : but if his opinion is altered, as it appears to be on this occa- 
sion, he has undoubtedly a precedent to support it. indeed had the Re- 
solve applyed, what it proposes has been done in the present affair, and 
without Effect : for it is well known, that the Member in his place, repeat- 
edly required the Yeas and Nays on the Question of order; that, when the 
Right was disputed, he produced in its Defence, the Rules and Usage of 
the House ; and that he considered the Decision, as having the appearance 
of an arbitrary proceeding. It is evident by the Journals, that when the 
Resolve was under Consideration, a paragraph for taking the Sense of 
Congress on Matters of privilege " in preference to any other Business " 
was expunged from the original proposition, by a Vote of the House: 
this, together with the Resolve itself, which involves a plain question of 
privilege in Disputes about the Mode of claiming it, has eventually been 
the Cause of deferring an Answer to my Requisition of the 19th of Feb- 
ruary, untill Gentlemen have had an oppertunity of carrying thro' their 
favourite plan, then under Consideration. And if it was the Intention of 
Congress, by that Vote to negative the paragraph, a Majority of the House 
may at any Time avoid the opposition of a Member, by depriving him of 
his privilege and obliging him to submit to the Greivance, or with draw 
from the House during their Pleasure. Upon the Whole, Sir. Is it not 
evident from undeniable Facts, that a Member of the House has been 
thus compelled to an explicit Remonstrance against their proceedings? 
that he has contended merely for the essential privilege of manifesting 
his Conduct in Congress ? that he is justly responsible for his own, but not 
for another's Conduct? that in claiming his privilege, he has neither re- 



April, I/80 105 

ceived that Support nor Attention, which as a Member he had a Right 
to expect? and that he is under the disagreable Necessity of submitting to 
a dangerous Attack, made thro him. on the Liberties of the House, or of 
referring the Matter to his Constituents ? these are Considerations which, 
however veiw'd by the House, are weighty in his Mind, and have made 
it his Duty to adopt the alternative, whilst he thinks himself deprived of 
his Seat in Congress.^ 

I have the Honor to be Sir, with the highest Respect, 

your most obedient and most hum. Servt. 

E Gerry 

125. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia April 4th 1780. 

I received your Excellencys favour of the 8th of march and advert to 
the contents of it.^ 

.... Now, Sir, if we have any men belonging to our State in Col. 
Sherburn's regiment, in the guards, etc., etc., whose times do not expire 
by the last day of next Sept., and I imagine we have, they must be counted 
towards our quota, and of consequence, included in the number of our 
men, as well as those in Greene's and Angel's regiments, and therefore if 
the supposition I have made proves true, we shall not have one-half of 
our quota to raise, if about one-half of it is now in Greene's and Angel's 
regiments. I have been the more particular because I should be very sorry 
to have a State whose quota is disproportioned to its abilities, attempt to 
do more than is required of it. Sensible that our quota was too large 
I moved and urged that it might be reduced to 700, but could not get Con- 
gress to agree to it. When the Arrangement was made at York Town, 
One regiment only was assigned to us : ^ and, perhaps if we had not been 
so forward to raise a regiment of blacks, without the request or even the 
knowledge of Congress, one regiment only would now have been required. 
Our State hath sometimes, by too great an ardour injured itself 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 3, 15, 17. The letter was read in Congress the same day, 
whereupon a motion was made by Gerry's colleague, George Partridge, and seconded by 
Peabody of New Hampshire, that the letter be taken into consideration the following day, 
but the motion met with a negative. On Apr. 15 however a motion by Schuyler and 
Livingston that Gerry be heard Apr. 17 on the subject of his letters prevailed, and Gerry 
was so notified by the President. Gerry's reply, Apr. 17 (no. 137, post), read in Congress 
the same day, without being a point-blank refusal to present himself in Congress, appears 
to have effectually discouraged Congress from taking any further action upon the matter. 
[125]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 88; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 277. 

2 Governor Greene's letter is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 276. It mentions 
a resolve of the Rhode Island assembly to raise 810 men including those in Colonel 
Greene's and Colonel Angell's regiments, which were about half the number called for. 
Ellery quotes the paragraph of the resolve of Congress (Feb. 9) defining the application 
of the provision with regard to quotas, and then proceeds as in the extract quoted. Cf. 
no. 142, post. Governor Greene's reply to this letter, Apr. 17, is in Staples, p. 279. 

3 Cf. Ellery to Governor Cooke, Mar. i, and Apr. 5, 1778, ibid., pp. 165, i68. 



106 Continental Congress 

When the account hinted at conies forward I shall exert myself to have it 
paid, and shall take notice of the bounties we have proposed to pay, and 
make use of every other argument to accomplish the wishes of the State 
which my invention can suggest.* .... 

126. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

<-,. Philadelphia April [4, 1780.]^ 

Your Excellencys letter of the 9th ult : Covering the Resolution of both 
houses of the Legislature of the 8th March, and Your Letter to Congress 
were delivered on Yesterday. 

The President read Your Letter and a Committee was appointed to re- 
port on It. from what passed In the house on the Occasion we have not 
a doubt but the requisition on the part of the State will be fully complied 
with.' 

We shall do ourselves the honor to address you on the Subject of the 
Vermont business In a few days.* 

We have the honor to be with the highest Sentiments of Respect and 
Esteem 

Your Excellency's Most obedient Servants 

Jno. Morin Scott 
Ph : Schuyler 
RoBT. R. Livingston 
Wm. Floyd 
Ezra LHommedieu 

127. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^^. Philadelphia April 4, 1780. 

.... The committee that has under consideration the afifair respect- 
ing the charges of the Penobscot expedition have not yet reported, but 

* The remainder of the letter pertains chiefly to a matter brought before the 
board of admiraUy by Governor Greene. The governor had stated that the Pigot galley, 
a vessel in Rhode Island waters, " was so rotten and so dull a sailer, that she was unfit 
for service ", and proposed that she be sold and another vessel purchased for a cruiser. 
Ellery did not believe that Congress would be disposed in any case to provide the cruiser 
desired, especially in view of the fact that the treasury was in such a state that " they 
have it not in their power to purchase a piece of one ". " Indeed ", he added " we have 
two vessels on the stocks, and for want of money, we cannot eyen launch them." He 
was convinced that the board of admiralty was in favor of selling the Pigot and likewise 
that the proceeds would not be used for purchasing a new vessel but would be applied 
to the ships now building. He had therefore induced the board to continue the vessel 
in the service for the present and would put off as long as he could any determination 
upon the governor's request. See, further, Greene's letter to Ellery Apr. 17, and no. 
150, post. 

[126]! Library of Congress, U. S. R. (in the writing of Philip Schuyler). 

' A part of the date has been torn off, but the letter is endorsed : " April 4th 
1780 Letter from the Delegates in answer to the Govr. of the gth ulto. cov'g Resolution 
of Legislature respect'g the rais'g of Men for the Defence of the Frontiers." 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 3, 4; cj. ibid., June i, and nos. 128, 179, 209, 214, post. 

* See nos. 127, 1-^8. 187, 188, post. Cj. nos. 106, 108. ante. 
[127]! Mass Arch., CCIL 121. 



April, 1780 107 

when I consider, it is no more than just, that the United States should pay 
the reasonable expences I don't even doubt, but that Congress will be of 
the same opinion and determine accordingly." 

The business respecting the New Hampshire grants (so called) is not 
to be taken up till nine states are represented in Congress, exclusive of the 
states which are supposed to be interested, and it is not my expectation that 
it will be determined upon at present, nor my desire that it shou'd till after 
the war/ .... 

128. Philip Schuyler to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia April 5th 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

On the 3d Instant I was favored with Your Excellency's letter of the 
30th ult. I have for ten days successively deferred writing In hopes that 
I should have been able at last to have advised you that public business 
was closely attended to In this quarter, and that we had adopted measures 
to disencumber us from that variety of embarrassment we experience, 
but alas ! we have made little or no advances. 

Mifflin Pickering Jones and General Sherman have furnished the first 
part of a Voluminous system for the quarter Master department. The 
Second part is to direct the Commissary General of Issues in the discharge 
of his Duty, and the third will point at the regulations for the Hospital. 
I do not mention the purchasing Department because that is to be abol- 
ished the States are to do all ; As General Sherman roundly asserts that 
System will strike off four thousand Officers from the Civil departments, 
as It is replete with absurdity and petitess " It will pass into a law unless It 
should be thought proper to Confer with the Commander In Chief on the 
Subject.^ There has been some wicked work respecting a Certain appoint- 
ment which Gen : Greene will advise you of Verbally. 

The Gentleman I have last mentioned addressed Congress in a letter 
of the 3d Inst, wishing for their Sense on his General Conduct in the 
Q Master department, a Resolution was proposed. That Congress had full 
Confidence In his Integrity and ability, and requesting his future exer- 
tions, this brought on much debate, amendments were moved, and the 
house got Into heats, and an adjournment was deemed necessary to give 
the Members time to Cool. A member more zealous for the Generals 
reputation than prudent Observed that he was an Officer In whom the 
Commander In Chief had the highest Confidence, that he was the first 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 22, Apr. 5-8; cj. nos. 103, 105, ante, and nos. 131, 136, 138, 
139. post. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 21 ; cf. no. 126, ante, and nos. 138, 187, 188, post. Holten 
further mentions that Mr. Partridge is about to return home, and in his Diary under 
Apr. 9 he records, " The Hon. Mr. Partridge left us ". 

[i28]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
II. 427; Greene, Lije of Nathanael Greene, IT. 257, 278 (extracts). 

- There is Httle doubt that the word is " petitess ". This word and the preced- 
ing " and " were omitted by Sparks. Cf. no. 120, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 27, 28; cf. nos. 98, 102, 109-111, 120. note 3, ante, and 
nos. 130, 132, post. 



108 Continental Congress 

of all the Subordinate Generals In point of Military knowledge and ability, 
that In case of an accident happening to Gen : Washington he would be 
the properest person to Command the Army, and that General Washing- 
ton thought so too another Observed that, he had a very high Opinion 
of G. Greens Military abilities, that he believed the General had too, but 
that he believed no person on Earth was authorized to say as much as 
the words, above scored, Implied I mention this that your Ex : may 
guard against any Misapprehensions which this may occassion with your 
Officers ; Gen : Greene will Inform you who delivered the Imprudent 
Speech.* 

Yesterday Your Letter of the 2d was read.^ there appeared a disposi- 
tion in many to leave the whole business which was the subject of It, to 
Your discretion. Great part of the Morning was Spent on the Subject 
before the resolution took place which will be transmitted by the President. 

Some days since I moved for a Committee to prepare a letter to the 
States to call on them for Exertions more Competent to the Great Object 
we have In view after some altercation a Committee was appointed. 
Elsworth Muhlenberg and Schuyler composed It They prepared the let- 
ter and reported, but some Gentlemen were averse at the decisive plain- 
ness with which we Intended Congress Should address the States whilst 
others Contended that we should Speak still more pointedly, after a whole 
days Debate, the letter was recommitted." 

* See the Journals, Apr. 4 ; cf. ibid.. Mar. 28. There is no definite clue to the 
identity of the member who made the " imprudent speech ". Greene's letter to President 
Huntington Apr. 3 gave a resume of his previous representations and stated that he had 
been waiting a whole week for an answer from the committee concerning matters which 
he had presented for their consideration, and that, as he found he was not likely to obtain 
an answer, he proposed to set out for camp the day after tomorrow (that is, Apr. s) and 
there wait the issue of the business. The Journals record that the letter was read Apr. 4, 
although the endorsement says, "read the same day" (that is, Apr. 3). See Greene, 
Life of Greene, II. 277-279, particularly the extract of Charles Pettit's letter to Greene, 
Apr. 8. Greene also wrote to Washington Apr. 3, stating the situation, and then adding this 
comment : 

" The new System for regulating the Quarter Masters department, is now debating 
before Congress, and as the members are generally unacquainted with the nature of the 
business, I am perswaded it will pass. I foresee the djsagreeable consequences that it will 
produce ; and have only one consolation upon the matter ; which is it will open a door 
for me to get out of the department. I have advised many Members of Congress to send 
a committee of the best informed Members of their body to Head Quarters ; and there 
with the Heads of the Departments and such General Officers as it may be necessary to 
consult in the business, fix upon a plan pro£erly adapted to the Service, and the nature 
of the Country. But I am perswaded it will have no efifect, as I am convinced the plan 
now before Congress is connected with other designs, of a private and personal Nature." 
Washington Papers. 

When it was decided to send a committee to headquarters, Mifflin and Pickering were 
thanked for their services in connection with the arrangement of the staff departments 
and the remainder of the business was referred to the newly appointed committee (Apr. 
14). This committee presented on June 17 a revised system, which, after some further 
revision (see the Journals, June 19, 30, July 5, 6), was adopted July 15. See nos. 156, 
257, 258, post. 

5 According to the Journals Washington's letter of Apr. 2 was read in Congress 
Apr. 5, and the consequent resolution is found under that date. Under that date also 
Samuel Holten sets down in his Diary, " Congress approved of Gen. Washington's send- 
ing Maryland and Delaware troops to So Carolina" (Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 91). 
Possibly Schuyler's letter should have borne the date Apr. 6. 

® What Schuyler here relates concerning the proposed letter to the states is only 
the beginning of the difficulties encountered in putting that communication into accept- 



April, ij8o 109 

I have entreated Gen : Greene to remain a day or two longer In town, 
that I may be able to advise w'ith him on the measures necessary to be 
pursued to prevent the 111 Consequences of his being driven to the neces- 
sity of a resignation which I conceive would at any time be an Event to 
be much lamented but In the present Conjuncture ruinous 

129. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia April 7th 1780.^ 
Sir, 

I have the honor to Intreat your Excellency to lay before Congress the 
Inclosed bill drawn by Major General Sullivan on me, the receipt of 

able form. Schuyler's motion, which was seconded by Roger Sherman, " that a committee 
of three be appointed to prepare and report a letter to the executive powers of the sev- 
eral states, stating the necessity of procuring and forwarding immediate supplies of 
provisions, etc., for the army ", was made Mar. 28. The draft reported by this com- 
mittee, the text of which is in the Journals, Apr. 4, is in the writing of Oliver Ellsworth. 
Schuyler says it was recommitted. It was in fact referred to a new committee consist- 
ing of Livingston, Burke, and Mathews. This committee made its offering Apr. 7 but 
appears not to have been able to get its letter accepted, for " after debate " it was recom- 
mitted. The text of this draft does not appear to have been preserved, but on Apr. 10 the 
committee submitted another draft, drawn by Burke, which will be found in the Journals. It 
is not recorded what consideration was given to the latter that day, but it was finally taken 
up Apr. 20, debated, and referred to still another committee, namely, Ellsworth, EUery, and 
Clark. This committee in turn brought in a draft on the following day, but which one of the 
committee wielded the pen, whether Ellsworth again tried his hand, the Journals do not 
state. At all events, it was " debated by paragraphs, and sundry amendments made ", and 
was then referred to W'illiam Churchill Houston " to re-draught the same with the amend- 
ments ". Houston presented his draft Monday, Apr. 24, "which was read and agreed to". 
The circular letter is found in the Journals of the day, printed in the same type as the body 
of the Journals, not in a smaller type, as is usual in the case of embodied documents. 
Numerous texts of the letter exist. It is printed, for instance, in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 
203, and in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 480. As addressed to the governor and the legislature 
of Mar\-land it is in Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book. VII. 35 ; to Massachusetts, in Mass. .\rch., 
ecu. 160: to Connecticut, in Conn. State Lib.. Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 159; 
to New York, in Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. iii. 

[ 129] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, vol. III., f. 519. 

2 The Journals of .'^pr. 7 record the presentation of a bill in favor of Mrs. Mary 
Carew drawn by James Willing on Robert Morris, William Smith, and Henry Laurens 
(members of the committee of commerce in 1777). This was referred to the committee of 
commerce, but no further record of the matter appears in the Journals. On May 11, how- 
ever, a memorial from Mary Carew was presented but this memorial has not been found. 
A deposition of James Searle, made Oct. 31. 1785, although the proceedings concerning 
which he deposes are referred by him to the " year one thousand seven hundred and 
seventy eight or nine", probably appertains to the bill and the memorial presented at 
this time (see vol. IV., p. 32 n.) The deposition (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., I. 89; 
Etting Coll., VI. 69) follows : 

" James Searle of the City of New York Merchant aged forty seven years and upwards 
being produced as a witness on the part of the defendant and examined on the behalf 
of the Plaintiff deposeth as follows 

" Imprimis, To the first Interrogatory this deponent sayeth that he does not know the 
Plaintiff but is well acquainted with the defendant whom he has known about forty years. 
That he well knows James Willing the brother of the Defendant and has known him about 
fifteen years. That the said James Willing was a prisoner in New York in the year 
one thousand seven hundred and seventy eight or nine. That this deponent heard Mary 
Carew the wife of the Plaintiff say at the time of her application to a Committee of 
Congress called the Commercial or Secret Committee that she had supplied James Willing 
when a prisoner with necessaries and further sayeth not 

" Secondly, to the 2nd Interrogatory this Deponent says that in the year one thousand 
seven hundred and seventy eight or seventy nine and during the captivity of James Willing 
this deponent and Francis Lewis and John Fell Esquires were Members of a Committee 
of Congress called the Secret or Commercial Committee. That he well remembers that 



110 Continental Congress 

the Indian in whose favor It passed is Indorsed. In the present State of 
Affairs I should have deferred the application for a reimbursment to a 
future day and have added this to the other Charges which I have against 
the public for Specie advances since the adjustment of my accounts in 
1777 had I not found It beyond my power to repay the person from whom 
I borrowed the money under a promise to replace It at an early day.^ 
1 have the honor to be with very sincere Esteem and respect 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient Servant 

Ph : Schuyler 

130. Philip Schuyler to Alexander Hamilton/ 

^ J-,. , Philadelphia, April 8, 1780.^ 

.... The pride, the folly, and perhaps, too, the wickedness of some 
on a certain floor, combine to frustrate every intention to promote the 
public weal, and relieve my amiable Chief from his well-grounded anxiety; 
the few that feel for him, and are alarmed at the critical state of our pub- 
lic affairs, in every department, within as well as without, have not been 
able to carry a measure which they believed would have had salutary con- 
sequences. They have now proposed that a Committee should repair to 
head quarters, invested conjointly with the General, with a kind of dic- 
tatorial power in order to afford satisfaction to the army, and to arrange 
the great departments thereof. Livingston, Elsworth, and Matthews, are 
appointed to prepare Instructions. Some good may result, if gentlemen 
who love the General, are not jealous of the army, and of a generous turn 
are sent ; but should General Sherman ^ be at the head of the Triumviri, 
the General will be tormented with a thousand little propositions which 
Roger has thrown together, and which he entitles a System. I shall not be 
sent on this business, " because, it would not be proper to send a person 
who, as he has been in the army, will probably have a bias in its favor ". 
This reasoning is conclusive.^ .... 

Mary Carrew presented a bill of exchange to this Committee of which this deponent was 
Chairman drawn by James Willing on Robert Morris William Smith and Henry Laurens 
Esquires who had composed a former Commercial or Secret Committee of Congress. That 
to the best of this deponents recollection the sum contained in the said bill was one hundred 
and fifty pounds or thereabouts. That this deponent informed Mary Carew that Con- 
gress were not possessed of any hard money And that this deponent in the name of the 
Committee offered to pay the said bill to the said Mary Carew by an order on the Con- 
tinental Treasury at the exchange then current in Continental money. That the said Mary 
Carrew absolutely refused to receive such money saying that it was of no use to her in 
New York James Searle. 

" The above named James Searle before me Jas. Duane Comr." 

3 The letter was referred the same day to the board of treasury, whose report, 
dated Apr. 8, was presented Apr. 13. This report, which concerns also a letter from 
General Greene Apr. 5 and referred to the board Apr. 6, is endorsed: "2d part passed 
April 13, 1780. 1st part referred to Mr. Schuyler [erased] Mr. Ellsworth Mr. EUery 
[erased] June 5 Mr. Houston Mr. Holten." See the Journals, June 5. 

[130]! Works (ed. Hamilton), I. 135. 

2 Under this date Holten records in his Diary, " Mr Livermore and his son set 
out home ". 

3 Here, as in the letter of Apr. 5 (no. 128, ante), Schuyler applies the title 
" General " to Sherman sarcastically. 

* The question of sending a committee to headquarters had been brewing for 
three months. For its earlier history see no. 89, note 4, ante; cf. nos. 8, note 2, iii, 120, 



April, I/80 111 

131. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

lySo, March 22. The Delegates of the State of Massachusetts Bay, in 
Pursuance of their Instructions contained in the Letter of Mr. President 
Powell of February 9th, moved the following Propositions, vizt!^ .... 

Congress determined to commit the Propositions with a Copy of the 
Instructions, almost in whole, as they were presented by the Delegates, and 
it appeared to be much the Sense of the House that this Business should 
produce general Resolutions. But the Delegates of that State found them- 
selves obliged to combat the Report of the Com'tee as quite throwing out 
of Sight the Point aimed at in the Propositions moved. 

lySo April ^tli. The Committee to whom was referred a Motion of 
the Delegates of Mass : Bay with sundry Papers from that State reported 
the following Resolutions, viat.^ .... 

an Amendment was obtained of fzvo for one Million,* and an Addition 
was gained to the last Resolve as follows, " and that continental Pay and 
rations be allowed to any Body of Militia not exceeding 800 men which 
the State of Massachusetts Bay may judge necessary to be raised by them 
for the Defence of the Eastern Part of that State.^ 

Mr. Partridge ® will tell you all the Turnings and Twistings and Botch- 
ings that were attempted to be made in the first Resolution ; which, being 
connected with the Preamble would have wrought as an inferred Exclu- 
sion of the Wishes of Mass. with Regard to the particular Expedition with 
its naval Expences. 

Yr. affect'te 

JL 
Apr. 9th. [1780.] 

ante. The motion to which Schuyler refers was made Apr. 6 by Livingston (seconded by 
Searle). The instructions were offered Apr. 11. adopted Apr. 12, and the committee 
appointed Apr. 13. Concerning the " warm debates '' on the question see the extract of a 
letter from Luzerne, in Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks). Vll. 15. See, further, nos. 
132. 135, 141, 142, 144, 145, pas). 

[131]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- The motion of the Massachusetts delegates is in the Journals, Mar. 22, but there 
it contains the addition to the third proposition which, as mentioned by Lovell. was later 
obtained. In the copy of the proceedings transmitted to Adams by Lovell, as also in a 
copy of the motion transmitted to the council by the delegates (Mass. Arch., CCIL 144). 
this third paragraph contains only the general proposition, " That an Expedition be forth- 
with adopted for dislodging the Enemy from Penobscot". See nos, 69, 103, 105, 127, ante. 
and nos. 136, 138, 139, post. President Huntington transmitted the resolves of Apr. 8 to 
the president of the Massachusetts council Apr. 14. Mass. Arch., CCIL 140; President's 
Letter- Book, p. 328. 

3 The report was brought in Apr. 5 and was under consideration Apr. 6, 7. and 8. 
Under the latter date in the Journals will be found the several paragraphs of the com- 
mittee's report, Lovell's transcript of which is here omitted. Against the first paragraph 
(see the Journals, pp. 339-340) Lovell has written. " lost by a division ". Against the 
second paragraph (Journals, p. 341) and also against the third (p. 342) he has written, 
" passed ". See also Partridge's defeated amendment, Journals, p. 340. 

* In Lovell's copy of the committee's proposal of a warrant (second paragraph 
of report) " tivo" (underscored) is written above "one". 

■^ In addition to the fact that neither of the copies of the motion transmitted by the 
Massachusetts delegates contains this clause, this statement of Lovell makes it evident 
that the clause was not in the motion as originally made. 

" Partridge was doubtless the bearer of this letter, as he took his departure the day 
it was written. See nos. 119, note 3, 127, note 3. ante. 



112 Continental Congress 

132. James Lovell to Samuel Adams/ 

April nth 1780. 
Sir, 

I have this morning reed, your Favor of March 25/30 ^ but it is not 
possible for me to give you a Tenth of the Portion in Return. I will attend 
to all the Points; but, on Mr. Partridge's Return and Conversation you 
will know I have rigid Attendance to perform in Congress, and to the full 
as much Duty out as ever. Wherefore you are not to expect many Letters 
from me. I am now standing at a Window to scratch this while Esqr. 
Burke is speaking. We are about sending a Com'tee to Camp the In- 
structions for them are under Debate.^ A Reduction will be one of the 
Points on which they will have discretionary Power, late in the Season 
as it is ; and altho' we lately put off a Report of the Bd. of War on that 
Subject till Deer, ist — 80,* a Preparitory Dulcedo was yesterday passed 
relating to the Staff of the Army, but it was not possible to go into a De- 
tail of Regulations respecting them so as not to throw Money away upon 
D D D D D's.^ But you may depend upon it that every Thing proper will 
be done for the deserving Classes of the Staff upon the Principles which 
have governed us as to the Line.® .... 

This will prove agreable to our State on the Principles already adopted 
by the Court as signified to Congress 

133. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Phil.\delphia April 15th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honoured with your Excellency's favour of the loth of 
March, also, with your several Letters of the same date to the Delegates 
of Connecticutt with the papers and Acts of Assembly to which they refer 
which have been duly noticed. - 

[132]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Adams's letter of Mar. 25 is in Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 183; the additions, 
dated Mar. 26, 27, and 30, respectively, are ibid., pp. 142-145, that is, they are printed as of 
1779 and as separate letters. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 6, 11, 12, 13; also nos. 89, note 4, 128, 130, ante, and nos. 
135, 141, 142, 144, 14s, post. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 25, and nos. 8, note 2, 112, 113, ante. 

5 Probably Lovell alone knew what these letters were meant to signify. 

^ Lovell is here alluding to what Adams says in his note of Mar. 27, namely, that 
members of the medical staff are as much entitled to consideration on acount of deprecia- 
tion as officers of the line, and that proper provision should be made for them. See the 
Journals, Sept. 22, 23, 30, 1780, June 11, 1781. He then quotes the resolve of April 10 
respecting compensation to the line of the army on account of depreciation, and that for 
the appointment of a committee to report upon the question of compensation to the staff 
on the same account. The last paragraph of the letter here quoted of course refers to 
these resolves. 

Under the date Apr. 10 Holten sets down in his Diary : " I dined with the minister. 
Congress agreed to make good to the officers and soldiers their pay on account of the 
depreciation of the money." Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVL 91. 

[133]^ Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL 141; Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, vol. XL, part IL, p. 141. 

2 Trumbull's letter of Mar. 10 to the Connecticut delegates is in Mass. Hist. Soc., 
Collections, seventh ser., HL 17. In compliance, he says, with the resolutions of Congress 



April, 1780 113 

Congress have lately pass'd an Act making general provision for the 
Exchange of Continental bills of the proscribed Emissions.^ I have there- 
fore return'd Doc'r Metcalf's money by Judge Sherman who set out yes- 
terday for Connecticutt. It is hoped some one or more delegate will soon 
arrive from Connecticutt. 

I must beg liberty to refer to Mr. Sherman for Intelligence as he will 
have the honour to wait on your Excellency by the time this comes to hand 
and can give more particular information than could be contain'd in a 
Single Letter. 

The late act of Congress for calling in by Taxes the present Conti- 
nental Currency * is very important and it appears to me the State that is 
foremost in the measure will probable \^sic~\ receive the advantage but in 
no case can Suffer any disadvantage by taking the lead. 

We have no intelligence from S. Carolina since the 14th March. Some- 
thing of importance may soon be expected from that quarter. 

My time is so incessantly employ'd in the Indispensible engagements 
allotted to me at present as obliges me to confide in my Collegues to Trans- 
mit to your Excellency and the State we have the honour to represent 
most of the Intelligence which is not Official — and I doubt not my par- 
ticular Situation and confinement will plead an excuse for me in omitting 
what in other circumstances would Justly be deemed a neglect. 

134. Oliver Ellsworth to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philada. Apr'l 15, 1780. 
D'r S'r, 

I am favored with your letters of the 21st of March and of the 2d and 
3d of the present month. 

I know your scituation and have done what I can to releive it — the re- 
sult you have by Capt. Champion." You would have less difficulty in ob- 
taining money if Congress had it to give you. they are as much embar- 
rassed for want of money as you are or can be. I should however have 
met with less opposition in obtaining warrants for you if I could have con- 
tradicted assertions that you had shewn no evidence to the Treasury of 
the mony's being paid over which you had already reed, tho' I do not 
believe there was a member present who had the least suspicion that you 
had misapplied a shilling. To pave the way therefore for further advance- 
ments I wish you could transmit to the Tre[a]sury the w[arran]ts of 
your Deputies or copies of them, for the monies you have paid them, 
which I think must be official proof that there is no money in your hands. 

the general assembly had appointed a committee to inquire into the commissary's and 
quartermaster's departments. The letter is especially critical of the methods which Con- 
gress proposes to employ for securing supplies. He remarks, for instance, " Congress 
surely have not so soon forgotten the unhappy events which brought on the necessity of 
feeding an army from hand to mouth, and the consequent excessive prices so detrimental 
to the interests of this country ". 

3 The act of Mar. 28. 

* The act of Mar. 18. 
[134]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 14. 



11-i Continental Congress 

135. Thomas Burke to Cornelius Harnett/ 

Philadelphia, Apr. 15, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

I have had from you, very lately, a letter which announced to me your 
safe arrival at your own home." .... I will not trouble you with a de- 
tail of the proceedings of Congress, but will enclose you papers which 
contain our New Money Act, which, together with the call for specific 
supplies, the Requisition for quotas of Troops, a Resolution for making 
good the pay of the Army, and a resolution appointing a Committee of 
three, Schuyler, Matthews and Peabody, to go to camp with powers to 
adopt and carry into execution any plan respecting the Quartermaster's 
and Commissary's Department, constitute all the business of great conse- 
quence which has been completed. The last appears to me to be a contriv- 
ance to prevent our making any considerable alterations in those depart- 
ments, and to give consequence to a certain Individ.^ in whose personal 
qualities and Individual Utility and importance Congress have found 
much business and much altercation and embarassment.* 

136. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. April 6th [i6th] 1780.- 
Dear General, 

.... I send you the February Journal without its Disgraces of Yea 
and Nay in long Borders. 

A Letter of yours has lately been read in Congress on yr. Request. Pray, 
had you been counted a Horse Stealer or a Jockey, or what, that you chose 
to have that formal Communication ? ^ 

[135]^ A^. C. State Rccs., XV. :i67. 

- Harnett's letter to which Burke is replying is dated Feb. 22 and is ibid., XV. 341. 

3 The allusion is doubtless to General Greene. Concerning the committee to go 
to headquarters, see nos. 128, 130, 132, ante, and nos. 141, 142, 144, 145, post. 

* The letter as printed ends here. A letter from Joseph Reed to Gen. Nathanael 
Greene, Apr. 17, contains the following passage respecting the committee: 

" Since you left us nothing very important has occurr'd except the Appointm't of a 
Committee to go to Camp which I suppose has or will soon arrive there. It was justly 
expected that as the Burthen of the War and Weight of Supplies lays between Connecticut 
and Virginia the middle States would have been particularly attended to in the Appoint- 
m[ent] but it has been otherwise and the remote Ends of the Continent have furnished 
each one who [though] they may be very proper Persons otherwise can know little of the 
Resources and Circumstances of these States. An Attempt was made to add 2 more but it 
failed it therefore becomes the more necessary that in your Deliberations (for I find you 
are not to be excluded from this Conference) your Measures should be such as to draw 
a pretty general Approbation of these States so far as the Execution depends on them or 

the Effect will not correspond with the Intention I send you confidentially the 

Instructions of the present Committee from which you will judge of Circumstances here. 
They certainly show more Wisdom and Prudence than was exhibited in another Com- 
mittee whose ReiKjrt you will have before vou." Library of Congress, U. S. R. 
[136]! N. Y. Hist Soc, Gates Papers, XVTI. 

2 This letter is endorsed, "Lre: from Mr. James Lovell dated Philada. i6th April 
1780 ". 

3 Possibly the letter referred to by Lovell was that read by Mathews Mar. 13. 
See no. 89, ante. 



April, 1780 115 

Congress will not say that the Penobscot Expedition was rightfully or 
wrongfully undertaken or that the reasonable Expences of it shall or shall 
not be paid by the Continent, Xor w-ill they attempt to direct an Expedi- 
tion against the Post now held by the Enemy in that Quarter.* .... 

137. Elbridge Gerry to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia 17th April 1780. 
Sir, 

Perceiving by the Resolution inclosed in your Letter of Saturday last, 
that Congress have assigned this Day to '' take into Consideration the 
Matters stated in my Letters of the 19th and 22d of Feby. last and 3d 
Instant " I think it necessary to inform them, that as my Sentiments are 
fully expressed in the said Letters. I propose not to take up the Time of 
the House with further Observations on the Subject, nevertheless, being 
always desirous of meeting the Inclinations of Congress, I shall attend 
them, on Notice that they think it expedient, and have the Honor to be 
Sir with great Respect 

your most obedt. and most huml sevt. 

E Gerry ^ 

138. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia april 17th 1780. 
Dear S'r, 

.... on my arrivel at this Place the Deprishation of the Currency 
wase So Rapped, the inhanced Price of all the nesesareys of life wase so 
Grate that it Seemed imposable to go on a month longer with our Public 
affairs, w-hich drove us to Preportion the Subsistance of the army on the 
Several States, and to new Regulate and Establish the Currency, Since 
which money appresheats and Produce is falling and our Public affairs 
ware a more favourable aspect.^ 

as to Vermont there wase Several Violent attempts by the Delegates of 
new york and newhampshier to bring the matter before Congress but 
without the least appearance of Success.^ 

we Produced our Credenshalls, the acts of the lagislatuer impowering 
Congress to do every thing they had requiered of us, Seting forth at the 

* Cj. no. 131, ante. 
[137]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. X., f. 223; Mass. Arch., 
CXLII. 224. 

- See the Journals, Apr. 15, and nos. 55, 59, 124, ante. No action was taken upon 
this letter beyond having it read, and the affair was for the time being dropped. Gerry 
nevertheless remained in Philadelphia until June 3 (Holten's Diary). Meanwhile he 
presented to Congress one other communication (Alay 18), but upon another matter (see 
no. 180, post). In the following September however he laid his controversy with Con- 
gress before the Alassachusetts assembly (Sept. 14, 22, nos. 431, 447, post). To the copy 
of the letter of Apr. 17 which he then transmitted to the assembly he appended the fol- 
lowing note : " N. B. Since the above the Letters have not been taken into consideration 
by Congress, nor any Measures adopted relative thereto." 

[138]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, vol. IL, i779-i790- 

2 See the Journals, Feb. i, 4, 5, 9, Mar. 18, and no. 100, ante. 

2 Cj. nos. 106, 108, 126, 127, ante, and nos. 187, 188, post. 



IIG Continental Congress 

same time the grate Expence the State had been at by Complying with 
there Request but all to no Purpose * I wase informed by individuals that 
what had been done on that affair wase Done by Coaxing and driveing, 
therefore I have no Expectation of any Settlement till after the war is 
over if I Can believe the Present members, but all this is but my Private 
Judgement and I wood not have it made Public 

Mr. livermore left this Place the 8th Instant who will give you a more 

Peticeular account to home [whom] I wood Refer you I hope 

genl. Whipple will be hurred on and that I may be Releved Soone. 

the massechuces have made applecation to Congress by there Delegats 
to Know whather thay wood Pay for the Cost of the Expedishon to Per- 
nopscut and to allow them to keep back Part of this years tax on that 
account the latter wase Complied with we had Newhampshier Put to 
the trial with them but faild the members thought it wase time anough 
when the State made application.^ 

Remember me to all my old f rinds and believe to be as much Conserned 
for the Public as ever I am with Sincer Respect your 

Very Hum'le Servent, 

Nathl. Folsom 
To the Hon'le Josiah Bartlet 

139. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia April 17, 1780. 
Sir, 

We have the Honor of forwarding at this Time a Warrant for two 
Millions of Dollars granted for the Use of the State before Mr. Partridge 
left Philadelphia but not then carried through the necessary Forms. 

The inclosed Extract from the Journals with the Information which 
our Colleague ^ can give will prove how the main Point relative to the 
Expences on the Penobscot Expedition was left undecided. He will also 
enable the General Assembly to judge whether it was proper for the Dele- 
gates to push strenuously for a Decision of that Point during the then 
apparent Temper of Congress, or to wait for further Directions from the 
Court.^ 

We have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir 

Your most humble Servants 

James Lovell 

S HOLTEN 

[P. S.] Mr. Gerry had stepped abroad after approving [this] letter 
and the Bearer could not [wait his return] . 

4 The New Hampshire act referred to is in the Journals, Feb. 7. 

5 Cf. nos. 103, 105, 127, 131, ante. 

[139]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 143 (in the writing of Lovell). 

2 George Partridge, who left Philadelphia Apr. 9. See nos. 119, 131, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 8, and nos. 103, 105, 127, 131, 136, 138, ante. 



April, 1780 117 

140. James Lovell to Augustin Mottin de La Balme.^ 

Philadelphia April 17th 1780. 
Sir, 

I inclose to you certified Copies of the Letters which you brought from 
Europe to the President of Congress. I think it needless to add Copies of 
those which you delivered to Genl. Washington and to the Committee for 
foreign Affairs containing similar Accounts of your military Accomplish- 
ments and very reputable conduct in Life." .... 

141, Philip Schuyler to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia April i8th 1780. 
(Private.) 
Dear Sir, 

The news papers announce all the foreign intelligence received by Con- 
gress and something more, except that of the Enemy's Intended plan of 
operation for the opening campaign which we believe we are possessed of. 
I enter not into a minute detail, least this letter should miscarry; let it 
suffice to observe to your Excellency, that I think it will, on their parts, 
evaporate as the last did especially to the Northward, if Supplies can be 
furnished for the army. To the Southward, I fear they will make an 
extensive penetration into South Carolina, for I have no great hopes that 
the troops in Charlestown will be able to make effectual! opposition. I 
wish they may not be caged; all was well there on the 21st ult. but a pri- 
vate letter of a later date advises that the Roebuck had passed the bar and 
would have her Cannon on board in ten hours. If this is fact, we shall 
soon have some serious Intelligence from thence. 

The Enemy have published one of my Letters which they took from 
Mr. Crane at Paramus ; ^ one to your Excellency, another to Mrs. Schuyler 
and a third to Colo. Lewis have not yet appeared in print ; their view in 
publishing mine appears to be to announce to their friends that we were 
under some difficulty with respect to our Finances, for it otherwise af- 
forded them little consolation. 

Maryland and Delawar continue unrepresented, so that the Vermont 
business still hangs by the Eyelids. 

[140]! British Museum, Add. MSS. 21844, f. 275; Library of Congress, Stevens fac- 
similes. 

2 This letter is endorsed. " Lettre de Mr. Lovell de la Phyladelphie le 17" Avril 
1780 a Colonel Balme, recue a Quebec 4""* Deer. 1780". La Balme was made lieutenant- 
colonel of horse May 26, 1777, and colonel and inspector-general of cavalry July 8. In 
October following however he resigned. Mar. 5, 1780, La Balme wrote Washington that 
he intended travelling in the South and asked for a certificate of character, to which 
Washington replied, Mar. 14, that he was unable to comply with the request. Lovell's 
letter indicates that La Balme had made a similar request of Congress. For some account 
of his activities in the Illinois country during the latter half of the year and of his death 
at the hands of the Miami Indians see Alvord, in Illinois Hist. Colls., H. Ixxxix-xciv, and 
Mich. Pioneer and Hist. Colls., vol. XIX., passim. His papers were captured and sent to 
Quebec, hence the above endorsement. 

[141]! Clinton Papers, V. 642. 

2 The letter of Mar. 11 (no. 86, ante). 



lis Continental Congress 

Mr. Livingston is gone into Jersey.^ I am one of a committee directed 
to repair to the army: for the purpose of arranging all the staff depart- 
ments thereof ; * this business and that of visiting the different posts east 
of Jersey will take much of my time, so that General Scott will be left 
alone, and altho our business will not suffer in his hands, yet sickness may 
prevent his constant attendance; would it not, therefore, be prudent to 
hasten Mr. Duane on. I hope your Excellency has received the act of 
Congress allowing pay and subsistance to the men to be raised for the 
defence of our frontiers.^ 

Please to make my respects acceptable to Mrs. Clinton. I am, D'r Sir, 
your Excellency's most obedient Servant, 

Ph. Schuyler. 

142. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Ap'l i8th 1780. 
Sir, 

Your excellency, in a letter of the 8th of last march informed me, that 
the account of the State against the United States was very large and that 
it would soon be forwarded. The sooner it comes to hand the better.'' 
Very lately a draft was reported on our State for five hundred thousand 
dollars in favour of the late Comm'y Genl. I opposed it with all my might, 
told Congress that a warrant for that sum would exhaust the last farthing 
of the debt due on our quota of taxes, and that I daily expected that the 
State would present their accounts and demand a very large ballance. In 
this way I got it reduced to one hundred thousand dollars.^ The people 
urge so pressingly the payment of their debts, and it is so necessary to 
preserve or rather recover credit, that warrants are continually issueing 
wherever there is any prospect of their being answered. The want of 
punctuality in paying their taxes, where the quotas were large, has depre- 
tiated the money greatly, and greatly embarrassed our affairs 

A Comm'ee hath lately been appointed to repair to head quarters to 
arrange departments etc., etc., etc. Inclosed is a copy of the instructions 
given to them: which points out their business more particularly than I 
could do it by a relation. It is expected that great advantage will result to 
the public from this measure.* 

3 He evidently departed on this journey that day, for he was in Congress Apr. 17. 
See, further, nos. 149, 168, 177, post. 

^ On this same day President Huntington transmitted to Washington the act 
appointing the committee to headquarters, together with the instructions to the com- 
mittee. See nos. 128, 130, ante, and nos. 142, 144, 145, post. 

^ The act of Apr. 4. See no. 126, ante; cf. nos. 212, 213, post. 
[142]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 99; Staples, R. I. in Coiit. 
Cong., p. 280. 

- See no. 125, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 14, 15. 

•* See the Joitrnals, Apr. 6, 11, li, 13, and nos. 130, 135, 141, ante, 144, 145. post. 
.\ letter from Ellery Apr. 15, to the committee at headquarters, who had not however yet 
left Philadelphia, is pertinent here : 

" I have a brother belonging to the state of Rhode Island, etc., whose name is Christo- 
pher, and who is as honest a fellow as your humble servant, but ten times as active; and 
capable of conducting business with propriety and to advantage in the Quarter Master 



April, I /So 119 

Congress have too passed an act for making good to the line of the 
army and the independent corps thereof, the deficiency of their original 
pay etc. This I also take the liberty to inclose to your excellency.^ These 
are the most material acts which have passed Congress ; since I last had 
the honour of writing to you. 

We are upon a plan of liquidating the value of Loan-Office certificates, 
determining to do justice to the holders of them as exactly as possible; 
when this is agreed to I will transmit it.*' 

As I have done I mean to give every information, and to perform every 
service in my power, which may be beneficial to the State, so long as I shall 
continue to represent it in Congress ; and whenever my constituents shall 
please to displace me, I shall go out with the satisfaction of having dis- 
charged my duty at least with firmness and integrity. 

143. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

r.- Philadelphia April i8th 1780. 

Before we had the Plonor of receiving your Letter of March 19th by 
Doctor Eustis Congress had taken up the Subject of Compensation for 
the Staff Department of the Army on the Ground of a depreciated 
Currency. 

The inclosed Papers will discover the present Stage of that Business 
and the Proceedings of Congress in Consequence of a Commitment of 
your Letter. W'hen the Committee to whom That was referred shall have 
made their general Report we shall do ourselves the Honor to communi- 
cate the Result, which we hope will be satisfactory to the Honorable 
Assembly." 

We are with great Respect Sir 

Your most obedient Humble Servants 

E Gerry 
James Lovell 

S HOLTEN ^ 

or Commissaries departments. If he can be employed in our state in either of those, or 
any other department without jostling out a worthy officer, and in a reputable station I 
should be glad ; therefore I would be much obliged if any vacancies should be made and 
be filled by you, that you would appoint him, or recommend him where you may not 
have the appointment. By so doing you will oblige the public and Your humble Ser- 
vant" (copy in Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, f. 264). See vol. IV., 
no. 56. 

^ See the Journals. Apr. 10, and no. 143, post. 

" See nos. 102, 120, ante, 281, 286, post. 
[i43]iMass. Arch., CCII. 150 (in the writing of Lovell). 

2 See no. 142, ante. The Massachusetts instructions (dated Mar. 29) were referred 
Apr. 12 to a committee which had been appointed Apr. 10, to report a proper compensa- 
tion to the staff of the army in consequence of the depreciation of the currency. It was 
the proceedings of these two days on the subject which the delegates transmitted. May 
ID the committee reported " as their opinion that it would be premature to proceed upon 
the business before the Committee that is sent to Head Quarters shall have reported". 
Accordingly the question, which was further stirred by memorials and otherwise, becomes 
closely connected with the activities of that committee. See, for instance, nos. 350, 355, 
357, 421, post. 

3 Holten's entry in his Diary for the following day, Apr. 19, is, " It is five years 
this day since the war commenced. I dined with the President of Congress ". Essex Inst. 
Hist. Colls., LVI. 92. 



120 Continental Congress 

144. John Mathews to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia April i8th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favour of the 7th Inst, the 13th. Whatever may be the 
fate of South CaroHna, I have this consolation, that I have done my duty 
to my Country, by pointing out in time the means for it's preservation, 
and had the remedy at that time been applyed, I have little doubt of it's 
having proved effectual, let it's loss fall on those shoulders whom it of 
right ought to do, and let them, if they can, acquit themselves to the Union, 
to their Allies. The subject is too melancholy to be dwelt on. 

We have no European news except the affair of taking the Spanish 
Ships off Gibralter, which you have in the public papers. As to Domestic, 
I know of none. 

A Committee of Congress are appointed — Genl. Schuyler, Mr. Peabody, 
and myself — to regulate the staff departments. What success we shall 
meet with, or whether we shall do any good, time only can shew.^ That 
there are abuses, and very gross ones, no body doubts, and it's high time 
some inquiry was made into them. 

I am D'r Sir with much Esteem and Regard 

Yr. most Obedt. Servt. 

J NO. Mathews. 

145. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
Commissary-General of Issues.^ 

April 19, 1780. 

Ordered. That the Commissary General of Issues, or his Deputy in the 

Middle district, be and are hereby directed, on the first day of may next, 

[144]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS.. no. 49, vol. III., f. 151. 

2 See nos. 130, 132, 135, 141, 142, ante, and no. 145, post. The regulation of the 
staff departments was only one of the committee's functions. See their instructions in 
the Jonrn-als, Apr. 12. For the additional powers conferred on the committee see the 
Journals, May lO, and nos. 166. 183, 187, 201, f>ost. The members of the committee 
departed for headquarters Apr. 25 or thereabouts. See no. 149. note 2, post. 

[145]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11 (Committee Book, 1780, Pro- 
ceedings of the Committee appointed the 13th of April, 1780), p. 286; ibid., no. 39, vol. 
IL, f. 95 (copy). 

- This document is headed " In Committee of Congress, for arranging the staff 
departments of the Army, retrenching expences, etc." This was the committee appointed 
Apr. 13 to proceed to headquarters to confer with the commander-in-chief on the subject 
of a reduction of the regiments, etc. The resolve for its appointment was taken x\pr. 6, 
the instructions (first debated Apr. 11) adopted Apr. 12. The committee is sometimes 
referred to as " the Committee at Camp ", sometimes as " the Committee of Co-operation ", 
but is usually designated as the Committee at Headquarters, and that designation is here 
used, although the committee had not yet proceeded to headquarters. As this order and 
that next following show, the committee began its work of retrenchment before it left 
Philadelphia. In fact, after the enlargement of its powers, May 19, retrenchment was not 
the primary task of the committee, and the policy of reduction was completely abandoned 
by Congress May 30. Concerning the steps leading to its appointment see nos. 8, note 2, 19, 
note 3, 89, note 4, 130, 132, 135, 141, 142, 144, ante. See also nos. 146, 149, 156, 162, 164, 
166-169, 172-174, 185-187, 194, 195, etc., post. 



April, lySo 121 

to abolish the Office of magazine keeper at the Post of Philadelphia and 
to discharge from that service the following persons — Vizt.^ .... 

And That the business lately done and transacted in that Office, be for 
the future transacted by the Assistant Commissary of Issues, who shall 
be allowed one additional Clerk, if necessary to enable him to discharge 
the duties thereof.* 

146. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
Quartermaster-General/ 

In Committee of Congress, 

April 19, 1780. 

Ordered, That the Quarter Master General, or his deputy in the City of 
Philadelphia, do, on or before the ist day of May next, discharge from 
the public service the following Persons employed under his direction in 
the City of Philadelphia — Vist. 17 Carpenters, One Assistant store keeper, 
One Assistant Barrack Master, and his Clerk and 4 Messengers, and that 
he do make return to the Committee of the names of the persons so dis- 
charged, and also of those retained in the service in the places before 
mentioned.^ 

147. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. 20th April 1780. 
Sir, 

Inclosed you will have a Letter of advice which I reed, from the Com- 
missary General in consequence of what I had done to prevent Congress 
from passing Resolves derogator}' to the State of New Hamp'e occasioned 
by the State Treasurer's protesting some Draughts on him in favour of 
the Commissary's department, information of which Circumstance was 

Transmitted to Congress by your Hon's Letter of the ^ and also 

by Mr. Cylers Complaint all which raised a very Considerable storm but 
understanding that considerable stores were actually Purchased in the 

3 Here follows a list of 19 names of persons to be discharged, with the occupation 
of each. No. i of the list is George Baker, keeper of the magazine. 

* The order was signed by the three members of the committee, Schuyler, Mathews, 
and Peabody. 

[146]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 286; ibid., no. 39, vol. II., 
f. 96 (letter-book copy). 

2 The order was addressed to the " Quarter Master-General or his Deputy in the 
City of Philadelphia ", and was signed by the three members of the committee, Schuyler, 
Mathews, and Peabody. See no. 14s. ante. On the same day the committee appointed 
Soiomon Maxwell superintendent of provisions at Christiana, Delaware, authorizing 
him to keep one cooper in constant employ and to employ others from time to time as 
necessity may require, for which additional service he was to have " such reasonable 
allowance" as shall hereafter be settled by Congress on the general arangement of the 
staff departments. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 97 (copy), no. 11, p. 287 
(letter-book copy). 
[147]^ N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 13. 

2 Weare's letter was to Jacob Cuyler and bore date of Mar. 7. See the Journals, 
Apr. 3, 4. 



122 C ontinental Congress 

western parts of your State, was induced to advise that Mr. Cyler Trans- 
fer the aforsd. Draffts to Majr. Jon'a Child as the money was to pass 
through his hands hoping it might be in the power, as I was sure it was 
the incHnation, of the State to answer the Draffts. I have only to add upon 
this subject That if this Transaction should not be disagreable to the 
State those drafts may be paid in preference to any of a later Date as 
several Drafts are since sent on for payment. Mr. Livermore can give 
you many particulars respecting the premises. 

P. S. I inclose also a Letter from the auditor Genl. respecting an 
eroneous Charge vs. the State of N. H. 

148. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philada. April 23, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 1 8th Instant with Copies of sundry Papers therein referred to No. i 
and No. 2. by which you will be informed that a Suit at Law is said to be 
instituted in Yoghogania County against Colo. Broadhead Commanding 
Officer at Fort Pitt, in consequence of Orders given by him to some of 
the Troops under his Command to take Possession of a House occupied 
by Edward Ward and Thomas Smallman Esquires which he judged neces- 
sary for the Safety of that Post. 

You will observe that by the Act enclosed Congress have resolved 
Colonel Broadhead shall be supported in any Acts or Orders which the 
Nature of the Service, and the Discharging his Duty as Commanding 
Officer at Fort Pitt hath made or shall make necessary with which I have 
no Doubt the supreme Power of Virginia will concur, and that proper 
measures will be adopted to prevent Colo. Broadhead his being unjustly 
vexed on Account of any Orders or Act by him given or performed, in 
the necessary Discharge of his Duty as Commanding Officer." 

149. John Mathews to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia April 24th 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

If it is in your power I should be extremely happy you would meet us 
at Head O'rs in the course of two or three days, that we might have an 

[148]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 334. A similar though not 
identical letter to President Reed of Pennsylvania is ibid., p. 335, and Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VIIL 202. 

2 The resolves of Apr. 18 were in consequence of a letter of Colonel Brodhead. 
Feb. 2y, to Richard Peters, secretary of the board of war, which was read Mar. 29 and 
referred to a committee. Some of the propositions of the cornmittee, who appear to have 
ofifered a report as promptly as Apr. i, were rejected (see the Journals. Apr. 18). Brod- 
head's letter is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIIL 119. "With it he transmitted copies of his 
orders to the assistant quartermaster and the Maryland corps with regard to taking post 
in the house referred to, and it was copies of these and of Brodhead's letter that con- 
stituted the sundry papers transmitted by President Huntington. A corresponding letter, 
Apr. 22, to Brodhead, is in the President's Letter-Book, p. 334. 

[149]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 



May, I/80 123 

opportunity of confering on some matters highly important to the Inter- 
ests of these States. If it will not be convenient to you to meet us at the 
above place, I must take the liberty of intreating your return to Congress, 
where the exertion of your abilities was never more necessary, than at 
this time. The loss of South Carolina (which we must every moment 
look for) will involve in it consequences truely alarming to the Union. 
.... can you at such a time find in your heart to leave us ? For heavens 
sake, deprive us not of your assistance at such a time. Let me repeat my 
earnest request my worthy friend for your return to Congress, that your 
Country may reap the benefit of your abilities at this alarming crisis. I 
have a thousand things to say to you, which prudence forbids being com- 
mitted to paper, but will reserve in hopes of seeing you at Camp." .... 

150. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, May 2, 1780. 

Sir: 

Nothing new in the congressional line hath taken place since our last 
but what will have reached your Excellency's hands before this. 

The frigate Confaderacy arrived here last Saturday from Martinico, 
and confirms the account of the arrival there of 16 sail of the line, with 
a considerable body of troops ; so that now the French have a decided 
superiority in the West Indies 

P. S. Mr. Ellery hath received your Excellency's letter respecting the 
Pigot Galley and will lay the same before the Admiralty board. - 

151. John Collins to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia, May the 2d 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I Received yours of the 29 yesterday morning, the atmosphere was 
Cover'd with mistey Clouds, and my apprehe[n]tion Cloudey as the at- 
mosphere, and your Observation aded to the Gloom allready taken great 
hold of my mind ; your letter brings to mind what I Wrote you more than 
a year past, that ouer dan[ger] was intarnal. I saw many at the helm of 

~ Mathews was one of the committee appointed Apr. 13 to proceed to headquarters 
(see no. 145, ante). Livingston had not only made the motion, Apr. 6, for the appoint- 
ment of the committee, but was one of the committee appointed the same day to prepare 
instructions for that committee, and he personally drafted those instructions (see the 
Journals, Apr. ii, 12). Washington also expressed a wish that Livingston might have 
been one of the committee with whom he was to confer (letter to Duane, May 14; see 
no. 166, note 3, post). Livingston was presumably somewhere in New Jersey at this 
time (see no. 141, ante) but he did presently come to headquarters and shortly after- 
ward (May 16 or earlier) returned to Congress, induced thereto by the news of approach- 
ing aid from France. See nos. 168, 177, post. The committee doubtless departed for 
headquarters Apr. 25, as none of them appears among the yeas and nays of that day. 
Peabody's departure is at all events recorded by Holten under Apr. 25, " Mr Peabody 
set out for headquarters. I rode out with him 5 miles ". 

[150]! R. L Hist. Soc, MSS., IIL 90 (signed by Ellery and Collins) ; ibid., Collec- 
tions, VL 254; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 281. 
- See no 125, ante. 

[151]! William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 



124 Continental Congress 

the Great Ship much adhear'd to that talked by Rote as Parats Sings a 
tune without knowing its meaning — Very ignorant of the great business 
necesary to keep the Ship a float, but let us not dispond all danger pro- 
duceis not Emeadi't death. I have seen dangers and am Still in existance, 
I have been amongst Rocks and Sholes in tempestious weather, and have 
seen my Ship Sink under me, and was not Drown'd. (but I lost my Ship) 
the hull of the Ship in which we are imbarked is still Strong and good, 
but I exp't for want of proper Shrowds and Stays, will Carry away her 
thirteen masts, but if she should, we will Rig her anew, with fewer masts 
and more Shrowds and Stays. I have no fear but she will weather the 
Storm, allthough she may Suffer in her Sails and Rigin, the damages may 
be Repaired when the Storm is over.^ 

I have no more to say you will understand me I design to leave this 
City on thursday or fryday next, if I am not prevented by the poverty of 
the treasury my political Servitude ends this day, tomorrow I shall be free 
from all political engagements to any Set of men liveing. 

I shall take my Rout through Morris Town, and Spend an hour in 
Camp, 

I am with the most friendly Regard yours 

John Collins 

[P. S.] An Express arrived here Sunday Last with Dispatches from 
General Lincoln, the 9th of Apriel, the Substance of which is that the 
Enemy Crossed Ashley River in force on the 29th of March, and en- 
camped about 3000 yards from ouer lines ; Seven Ships of War pass'd 
Fort Moutrie the 8th of Aprel and anchored near fort Johnston with- 
out any injury except the loss of on[e] topmast. I shall not be praticular 
as I Suppose a Coppy of General Lincolns leter will be forwarded to 
the General. 

J.C, 

152, Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[May 3, 1780.] 
J. Reed, a letter from Mr Peabody. The medical committee met in my 
chamber.^ 

153. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin,^ 

May 4th 1780, 
Hon'd Sir, 

I cannot write with official Authority nor have I time to enlarge now 
upon our public afifairs owing to the particular Circumstances of the Mass : 
Delegation which forces me to attend in Congress ^ and the Vessel will 

2 Collins had been a sea-captain before he turned statesman, 
[iS^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 92. 

2 Peabody was a member of the medical committee and likewise a member of 
the committee which had recently been sent to headquarters. 
[153]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XVIII. 64. 

2 That is, it required the presence of both Lovell and Holten to cast the vote of 
the state. With regard to Gerry see nos. 55, 59, 124, 137, ante. 



May, jy8o 125 

probably sail before our Adjournment this Afternoon. I refer you to the 
Journals and Gazettes together with Mr. Robert Mease's Conversation.* 

Be assured of my greatest Respect for your Character and my sincerest 
wishes for your Prosperity, being, Sir, Your Friend and most humble 
Servant 

James Lovell 

154, James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 4th May 1780. 
My dear General, 

We are in anxious suspense for the fate of Charles Town 

We are exerting every Means in our power to expedite the March of 
the Reinforcement destined for Charles Town. It is committed to the 
Joint Efforts of the Board of War and the Treasury and I hope every 
obstacle is surmounted. I have but one wish left that Virginia may on so 
decisive and interesting an Occasion be able to detach a Body of Militia 
which in Conjunction with the Continental Reinforcements will be suffi- 
cient to support the Communication between the Town and Country and 
harass the Besiegers in their Rear. The Reluctance against the Southern 
Service, tho' easy to be accounted for, is much to be deplored ; and I recon- 
cile myself to the Embarrassments which our weakness in that Quarter 
superadds to all our other Difficulties. 

In spite of the disagreeable Aspect of our Money Affairs I look forward 
to a happy Termination of our arduous Conflict. We have not experienced 
half the Distresses which considering the power of our Enemies, every 
contemplative mind must have expected. I am in this view much engaged 
in another attempt to get the Confederation accomplished which in my 
Opinion would fully compensate for the temporary Loss of any City on 
the Continent and it gives me great Pleasure to assure your Excellency 
that the Delegates from Virginia are warmly disposed to give it all the 
Aid in their Power ; and have the fullest Expectation that our Joint Exer- 
tions will Succeed ; and the future Safety and Tranquillity of the States 
be fixed on a permanent Basis. Without a Federal Alliance Peace itself, 
Independence, and Security from external Assaults, would scarcely deserve 
the Name of a Blessing 

To hold a Place in your Excellency's Confidence and Friendship is an 
Honour which I most highly prize; and which I shall always regard as 
one of the most happy Circumstances of my Life ; for no man can be more 
entirely Attached to you by every tie of Affection Esteem and Gratitude 
than my dear General 

Your most Obedient and most faithful Servant 

Jas. Duane 

^ Robert Mease was the bearer of this letter. See Calendar of Franklin Papers, 
II. 271, 318. 

[154]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
11. 444. 



126 Continental Congress 

P. S. Be pleased to present my most respectful Compliments to Mrs. 
Washington and the gentlemen of the family. We have this moment 
Letters informing us that the Connecticut and the Massachusetts Legisla- 
tures have cheerfully adopted the new plan of Finance. The Connecticut 
traders have done themselves great Honour as well as the principal Farm- 
ers. The former in an address to the Assembly declare their Readiness 
to receive the new Money at its Value specified for by Congress in pay- 
ment for their Commodities. New York I am perswaded will concur and 
their Example will probably bring All the States into the Measures. ■ 

155. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams. ^ 

Philadelphia 5th May 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

Since the Treasury, Admiralty, and Court of Appeals have been put in 
Commission, Congress have not been troubled much with their respective 
Concerns, and for several Days past have adjourned before the usual Time 
from a Want of Business.- .... 

156. The Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town 5th May 1780. 
Sir, 

Your favour of the 3d instant has been received and Claimed our seri- 
ous Attention." 

It is the wish as well as the inclination of this Committee to give you 
every Satisfaction as far as their Powers extend. But to undertake an 

-See the Journals, May 11, 29; cf. no. 204, post. Washington's reply to this 
letter, May 13, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 262. See also his letter to Duane, May 
14 (ibid., VIII. 264, ed. Sparks, VII. 32). 

[155]^ Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 An extensive extract of this letter, chiefly respecting the results of the resolu- 
tion of Mar. 18 calling in the two hundred millions of paper emission, is printed in 
Adams's Works, VII. 188, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 650; copies are in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 84, vol. II., f. 397; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, LIV. nob, 120b; 
and Paris, Arch., Aff. Etr., E. U. 12: 12-14 (two copies). Adams made particular use 
of this extract in his defense of the act of Mar 18 in letters to Vergennes in the follow- 
ing June. See no. 534, post. 

A letter from Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson and Company of Baltimore, Apr. 25, 
is of interest in this connection : " Yours of the 22d Inst is here and I only repeat my 
opinion that Continental money will never be of less value than it is now, therefore I do 
not think this is the time to purchase plantations with that money. I think it would be 
more eligible to agree in specie payable in six or twelve months ", etc. Library of Con- 
gress, Ac. 2623. 

[156]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 85 (draft by 
Peabody), no. n, p. 249 (letter-book copy). 

-In his letter to the committee May 3 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 
242, no. II, p. 222, letter-book copy; Greene, Life of Greene. II. 258), Greene refers 
to a conference with the committee on the preceding day, in which they had asked his 
opinion respecting the proper mode of accommodating the department to the new plan 
for obtaining supplies for the army, and states that he could not venture to offer his 
sentiments until they had made inquiry into the former conduct of his department. See 
nos. no, note 3, 120, note 3, 128, ante. 



May, 1780 127 

investigation into the state and Conduct of your department at this mo- 
ment — the business being of so diffuse and Complex a nature — we Con- 
ceive would be highly inconsistant with the public welfare, as the Conse- 
quent delay attending such an enquiry would evidently tend to defeat the 
Great object we have primarily in view — The immediate Supply of the 
Army. 

We feel Great Anxiety, Sir, at your seeming determination not to enter 
into business with us until such enquiry shall have been previously made. 

We cannot however but flatter ourselves that on mature reflection — 
taking in view the Great object by us alluded to, on the immediate Execu- 
tion of which You well know so much depends you will wave the appli- 
cation and with that Zeal and alacrity which have hitherto distinguished 
you in the Service of your Country afford that aid which your abilities 
and experiance enable you so effectually to give, and which we had in 
Charge from Congress to require of you.'^ 

157. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia May 6, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 4th Inst, 
ordering that the enclosed Copy of a Letter from James Gray D. C. Genl. 
of Issues in the Northern Department be transmitted to you.^ 

P. S. By Intelligence via X. York we are informed our Army and 
Friends were in Possession of Charles Town the 20th ulto. Aly last Letter 
from Genl. Lincoln is the 9th of April, accompanied with a Letter to his 
Excellency the Commander in Chief which was immediately forwarded 
and by which I presume Genl. Washington has received as late Intelligence 
from Genl. Lincoln as I could communicate. 

3 Replying, May 6, Greene declared that he could not conceive how the committee 
could execute their commission without first making inquiry into the order and arrange- 
ment of the quartermaster's department. " On what grounds ", he said, " can they make 
any alterations, or confirm any part of the present plan, without such an investigation?" 
He did not expect them to go into the details of the business, but he did expect them 
to " satisfy themselves with respect to the great outlines of the business and the general 
conduct of the principal agents ". He could not, he insisted, serve until every shadow 
of suspicion which might affect his character or standing with Congress should have 
been removed ; neither would he serve " under the direction of any other superintending 
board, than that of the Board of War, unless they belong to Congress ". However, he 
added, " I shall be always happy to render the public every service in my power — either 
with or without reward, more than a necessary support" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, 
vol. I., f. 249; Greene. Lx]e of Greene, II. 284). See, further, nos. 257, 258, post. 

[157]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. H., f. 105, no. 11, p. 9 
(letter-book copy) ; President's Letter-Book, p. 337. 

' The letter from James Gray, dated at Albany Apr. 17, was a complaint that 
one John Hanson, sometime assistant commissary of issues at Fort Schuyler but dis- 
charged by Gray for neglect of duty, had persistently refused to make settlement or give 
bond. 

13 



128 Continental Congress 

158. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philada. May 6th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I am sorry I can give you no other account of our public situation than 
that it continues equally perplexed and alarming as when I lately gave you 
a sketch of it.^ Our army has as yet been kept from starving, and public 
measures from a total stagnation, by draughts on the States for the un- 
paid requisitions. The great amount of these you may judge of, from the 
share that has fallen to Virginia. The discharge of debts due from the 
purchasing departments has absorbed a great proportion of them, and very 
large demands still remain. As soon as the draughts amount to the whole 
of the monthly requisitions up to the end of March, they must cease ac- 
cording to the new scheme of finance. We must then depend wholly on the 
emissions to be made in pursuance of that scheme, which can only be ap- 
plied as the old emissions are collected and destroyed. Should this not be 
done as fast as the current expenditures require, or should the new emis- 
sions fall into a course of depreciation, both of which may but too justly 
be feared, a most melancholy crisis must take place. A punctual compli- 
ance on the part of the States with the specific supplies will indeed render 
much less money necessary than would otherwise be wanted, but experience 
by no means affords satisfactory encouragement that due and unanimous 
exertions will be made for that purpose not to mention that our distress 
is so pressing that it is uncertain whether any exertions of that kind can 
give relief in time. It occurs besides, that as the ability of the people to 
comply with the pecuniary requisitions is derived from the sale of their 
commodities, a requisition of the latter must make the former propor- 
tionably more difficult and defective. Congress have the satisfaction how- 
ever to be informed that the legislature of Connecticut have taken the 
most vigorous steps for supplying their quota both of money and com- 
modities ; and that a body of their principal merchants have associated for 
supporting the credit of the new paper, for which purpose they have in a 
public address pledged their faith to the Assembly to sell their merchan- 
dise on the same terms for it as if they were to be paid in specie. A similar 
vigor throughout the Union may perhaps produce effects as far exceeding 
our present hopes as they have heretofore fallen short of our wishes.® 

It is to be observed that the situation of Congress has undergone a total 
change from what it originally was. Whilst they exercised the indefinite 
power of emitting money on the credit of their constituents they had the 
whole wealth and resources of the continent within their command, and 
could go on with their afifairs independently and as they pleased. Since 
the resolution passed for shutting the press, this power has been entirely 
given up and they are now as dependent on the States as the King of 

[158]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081; Writings of Madisan (ed. 
Hunt), I. 61; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 45. 

2 Presumably the letter of Mar. 27 (no. 118, ante). 

3 Cf. General Greene to Governor Trumbull May 7, in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions, seventh ser., IH. 36. 



May, 1780 129 

England is on the parliament. They can neither enHst pay nor feed a sin- 
gle soldier, nor execute any other purpose but as the means are first put 
into their hands. Unless the legislatures are sufficiently attentive to this 
change of circumstances and act in conformity to it every thing must 
necessarily go wrong or rather must come to a total stop. All that Con- 
gress can do in future will be to administer public affairs with prudence 
vigor and oeconomy ; In order to do which they have sent a Committee to 
Head Quarters with ample powers, in concert with the Commander in 
chief and the Heads of departments to reform the various abuses which 
prevail and to make such arrangements as will best guard against a relapse 
into them. 

The papers enclosed herewith contain all the news we have here. 

159. Richard Henry Lee to William Shippen, jr.^ 

Richmond Town in Virginia May 7, 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

I arrived here six days ago to give my attendance as a Member of this 
present general Assembly, and here I received your favor of April 16 on 
the 5 instant, for which be pleased to accept my thanks.' You ask me if 
the wicked enemies of our Country still prosper and go unpunished. I 
answer that they probably will, until virtue learns to be as industrious as 
vice, and men in general come to prize the former more than the latter. 
The stimulated industry that marks your persecutor strongly demon- 
strates that some other quality than mere virtue influences his conduct. 
The bitterness of revenge, working on disappointed ambition and avarice 
is plainly perceptable. At this distance of time I cannot recollect the par- 
ticular Complainants against Dr. Morgan out of Congress, But I remem- 
ber perfectly well that in Congress Mr. Chase did most warmly oppose 
Dr. Morgans longer continuance in the Directorship, saying repeatedly 
that not a Soldier would be obtained from Maryland if the Director was 
not changed. I remember Mr. Chase, his mentioning particular instances 
of his misconduct which appeared strong at the time. I make no doubt 
but that you may get the information you want from Mr. Chase, and be 
availed also by his testimony. If there were any written complaints, no 
doubt they may be found upon the files of Congress. Having had the 
pleasure of a great share of your confidence and correspondence, and hav- 
ing been a Member of Congress at the time, it seems more than probable 
that if you had excited clamors against the Director with a view to succeed 
him, that I should have heard or known something about it, and yet I can 
declare before God and Man that I neither knew or heard of any such 
thing. I believe there is scarcely a Gentleman who was then a Member 
of Congress that does not well remember how great and general the dis- 

.[159]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, IIL ; Southern 
Literary Messenger, May, i860, p. 345; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
II. 178. 

2 Shippen's letter is in the University of Virginia, Lee Papers. A printed text 
is in the Southern Literary Messenger, May, i860, p. 344. Lee was not at this time a 
delegate, having withdrawn in May, 1779. 



130 Continental Congress 

satisfaction was at that time against the Director General, insomuch that 
I solemnly affirm it appeared to me as I know it did to many others that 
the change of the directorship was indispensable to the collecting of an- 
other Army, the former having been chiefly disbanded in the fall of 1776.^ 

I am yours my dear Sir most sincerely, and affectionately 

RiCHD Henry Lee. 

160. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 9th May 1780.^ 
My dear General, 

.... I am much concerned at the want of money in the military Chest 
and other Departments ; nothing in our power will be left undone to ob- 
tain a competent Supply : but it is to be feared that some Distress is neces- 
sary to rouse the States to more decisive Exertions. We learn since my 
last that the new plan of Finance will be supported in Virginia as it already 
is to the Eastward.^ This ought to be the Endeavour of every Friend to 
our Cause. It is unavailing and fruitless to examine into its policy, or 
even to exclaim against the Injustice it may do to Individuals. Private 
opinion and private Interest must give way to publick Councils and the 

2 Dr. John Morgan was chosen director general and chief physician of the 
hospital Oct. 17, 1775. Dr. William Shippen, jr., was chosen physician to the Flying 
Camp July 15, 1776. In the autumn of 1776 a controversy arose between the two over 
their respective bounds of authority, which Congress settled by a resolution of Nov. 28. 
There were also complaints from many sources, particularly from Dr. Shippen, against 
Dr. Morgan's conduct of affairs, with the result that Dr. Morgan was summarily dis- 
missed from office Jan. 9, 1777. See vol. II., pp. 158 n., 211, 212, 271, 321 n. Concerning 
the Shippen-Rush quarrel in 1778, see vol. III., pp. 59, 66, 67, 77, 157. 

In the spring of 1777 the medical department was reorganized on a plan largely pre- 
pared by Dr. Shippen, and Apr. 11 Dr. Shippen was elected director general of the mili- 
tary hospitals. July 31 Dr. Morgan preferred a memorial to Congress on the subject of 
his dismissal, whereupon the medical committee, to whom the memorial was referred, 
made a report upon the circumstances of his dismissal and recommended the appoint- 
ment of a committee to give him a hearing. The committee was not however appointed 
until Sept. 18, 1778, after the presentation of a further memorial from Dr. Morgan. 
The members of the committee as first constituted were Drayton, Harvie, and Wither- 
spoon, but Harvie having withdrawn from Congress Meriwether Smith was chosen in 
his stead (Dec. 29). This committee brought in a report Mar. 13, 1779, altogether com- 
mendatory of Morgan, and Congress voiced its approval in a decisive resolve (June 12). 
Thereupon Dr. Morgan brought charges against Dr. Shippen (June 15; see also the 
Journals, Oct. 25, Nov. 16, 24, Dec. 22, 24, 1779). The matter was referred to General 
Washington, who, in December, ordered a court-martial (see also the Journals, Jan. I, 
Apr. 4, May 10, 1780). The court gave a verdict of acquittal, which Washington trans- 
mitted, July 15, 1780, to Congress, where it was debated at frequent intervals for a full 
month and finally approved. See the Journals, July 18-20, 22, 27-31, Aug. 16, 18. 

[160] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

~ On this day the Virginia delegates, to whom had been referred on Apr. 14 a 
letter from Lieut.-Col. J. M. P. Legras, reported that the letter was proper for the 
consideration of the general assembly of Virginia and ought to be transmitted to the 
executive of that state. Legras' letter, which was written from Williamsburg Mar. 22 
and relates to assistance rendered George Rogers Clark, is in the Virginia State Library, 
Executive Papers. Concerning Legras and his claims see Official Letters of the Governors 
of Virginia, vol. II., and J. A. James, George Rogers Clark Papers, passim. 

3 Cf. nos. 227, 264, post. 



May, lySo 131 

publick Safety; and it ought to be remembered that in a Case of such 
difficulty and Embarrassment while some remedy seemed to be indis- 
pensably necessary, none coud have been devised which woud not have 
been object [ion] able. 

The Arrival of a Packet at New York we are informed has produced 
many dejected Countenances ; * but as this has been an invariable Remark 
on every such Event for three years we cannot be much elated. We have 
however all the Reason to be wished for this Reflection that the Distresses 
of our Enemies bear a full proportion to our own ; and that they cannot 
but feel the strongest Apprehensions that the \\'ar must terminate in our 
favour. 

I congratulate your Excellency on the Arrival in Europe of Mr. Jay 
and Mr. Gerard ; and of our gallant Friend the Marquis La fayette in 
America. Mr. Tel fare and another Gentleman are just arrived, and Col. 
Walton daily expected, as Delegates from Georgia.^ 

i6i. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, May 9th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will probably before the receipt of this have been 
informed of the death of the honorable Don Juan Demarelles, the Span- 
ish gentleman of distinction that resided at this place. He died after a 
short illness the 28th of April at Morristown, to which place he had ac- 
companied the Minister of France to pay their respects to the General and 
army. His remains were there interred with the honors of war, and his 
funeral rites have been also here celebrated this day in the French chapel, 
with very great respect and a lasting requiem sung to his soul." 

This gentleman during his residence here appeared zealously attentive 
to the political interests and views of this country, as well as his own, and 
waited with impatience to see the ties between the two countries indissolu- 
bly formed by a ratification of treaties of amity and commerce, which he 
expected would take place on the arival of our Minister at the Court of 
Spain. 

Much anxiety prevails here to know the fate of Charlestown, from 
which there are no accounts to be depended on later than the 9th of April, 

* The allusion is doubtless to the news, which had already reached New York, 
of the coming of the French fleet. 

^ George Walton, Edward Telfair, and William Few attended Monday, May 15. 
[i6i]iMass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 38. 

2 Samuel Holten recorded in his Diary under May 8, " I attended at the Roman 
Catholic church on account of the death of Don Juan". Either Ellsworth or Holten 
(probably the former) is in error with regard to the date of the funeral services to 
Don Juan de Miralles. None of the Philadelphia papers mention the event. Congress 
appears to have attended the services as a mark of respect, but unofficially, since Miralles 
had not been officially recognized. Concerning his death see Luzerne to Washington 
Apr. 29 {Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, HI. 442), Washington to Don Diego Joseph 
Navarro Apr. 30 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 27), and his reply to Luzerne May 11 
{ibid., p. 30). 



132 Continental Congress 

nor does it appear from the papers published in New York to the 3d of this 

month, that any accounts have been received there later than ours 

I thought it my duty to read in Congress the accounts I had received 
from Connecticut, and was kept in countenance by their just approbation. 
And it is devoutly to be wished that the well timed and animating example 
of so respectable a State may have its due influence with the rest. A num- 
ber of their Assemblies, as New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mary- 
land and Virginia, are, it is said, now convened, or convening, and will 
be informed thro' the channel of the Philadelphia paper, if not otherwise, 
what Connecticut has done. 

P. S. Since writing the above advice is received from Charlestown to 
the 15th of April, 2 o'clock, P. M. The enemy had opened their batteries 
on the town on the 12th and kept them incessantly playing, but without 
much execution.^ .... 

162. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

Morris Town May loth, 1780. 

The necessary enquiries at the posts on the communication from Phila- 
delphia hither, and the heavy rains that fell, retarded our Journey so much, 
that we did not reach this place untill the 28th Ulto. 

Judging it advisable to inform ourselves, as fully as possible on the 
general subject of our Mission, before we attempted an alteration in any 
of the departments, We held conferences with the Commander in Chief 
for several days succeeding our arrival the result of which was, that the 
distressed state of the army in point of provisions should claim our im- 
mediate attention to the arrangement of the two great staff departments, 
so as to adapt them to securing and bringing on the supplies called for 
from the several states by the act of the 25th of February last. Systems 
for both have been attempted and some progress made therein. We find 
little difficulty in establishing one, for receiving, securing, and issuing, 
and properly accounting for, the expenditure of supplies to be furnished 
by the states. But, embarrassments of a serious nature arose, through a 
want of money on the one hand, to pay for the transportation thereof, a 
want of forage on the other, in those states which are not called on to 
furnish any and in which the Continental officers are probably inhibited 
from purchasing, as they are in this state, and where the quota of that 

3 In the Pennsylvania Journal, May 10, is an account (half a column in extent) 
of the news from the southward : " On Monday last arrived an express from Newbern, 
in North-Carolina, and brings accounts as late as the 15th ult. from Charlestown, when 
that town was still safe, though the enemy were making all the advance in their power." 
A similar account is in the Pennsylvania Gazette of the same date. In fact, Charleston 
capitulated two days later (see nos. 226-234, post). The articles of surrender proposed 
by General Lincoln, May 8, are in A''. C. State Recs., XIV. 807, the counter-proposals of 
Clinton and Arbuthnot, May 9, are ihid., p. 809. The articles of capitulation, May 12, 
are in the Library of Congress, U. S. R. 

[162]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 12, ff. i-ii (draft 
by Schuyler, dated May 9), no. 11, p. 21 (letter-book copy, dated May 9). 



May, 1780 133 

article is already expended, at the same time that the state Officers cannot 
go beyond quantities assigned them. And yet, a vast land transportation 
must of necessity take place, in and through states, under either predica- 
ment. The impracticability of conveying Forage from states remotely 
situated is too evident to require any comments on our parts. Hence, un- 
less the states are requested to repeal so much of their laws as prohibit the 
Continental Officers from making purchases whenever Congress, or some 
superintending board, or Military Commander, shall judge it necessary, 
the public service must inevitably be retarded, if not totally stagnated. 
Nor should the repeal be confined to a mere permission for procuring 
forage, but be extended to every enumerated article under the restrictions 
mentioned. For it is beyond a doubt that cases will arise in which the 
army will be unsupplied in particular states, when the quotas of such 
states have been expended, And those of others not only so remote as to 
afford little prospect of immediate relief, but too much so to draw the 
supplies from thence, on any principle of oeconomy, if they could be got 
at hand, as the mere charge of transportation would greatly increase the 
prime cost. But the repeals we have stated to be necessary are not alone 
sufficient, for unless money is immediately furnished to pay for the trans- 
portation of supplies from the different magazines in hired carriages, and 
to redeem the public working cattle which the farmers in every quarter 
hold in pledge for the payment of their subsistence through the winter, 
every plan of supply must prove nugatory, and all we have done, or can 
do, relative to the arrangement of those departments, will be inadequate 
to the great object. Indeed such are the accumulated distresses of the 
army at this conjuncture, and such the effects of a repetition of want, that 
it has had a very pernicious influence on the soldiery. Their patience is 
exhausted, by being exposed to such frequent sufferings, that they already 
begin to ascribe to a defect of resources what they have hitherto been 
taught to believe arose from accidental impediment. Their starving con- 
dition, Their want of pay, and the variety of hardships they have been 
driven to sustain, has soured their tempers, and produced a spirit of dis- 
content which begins to display itself under a complexion of the most 
alarming hue. If this spirit should fully establish itself, it must be pro- 
ductive of some violent convulsion, infinitely to our prejudice, at home, 
and abroad, as it would evince a want of means, or a want of wisdom to 
apply them. Either of which must bring our cause into discredit and draw 
in its train consequences of a nature too serious to be contemplated with- 
out the deepest anxiety. Permit us therefore to intreat the immediate 
attention of Congress to this necessary supply, for the purpose we have 
mentioned. And, for the payment of the troops, to whom the paymaster 
is now greatly in arrears, and the Officers so entirely destitute, that many 
for want of their subsistence money, with which they made some addition 
to their single rations, are now reduced to the disagreeable necessity of 
making it their whole support. 

On examining into the state of provisions in Camp we find there is not 
more meat than will last untill the 12th Inst. Collo. Blane is come up, and 
we have from him, that he has no prospect of an immediate supply of this 



134 Contincntol Congress 

article. The only resource we can turn our eyes to in this exigency is, the 
state of Pensylvania. If they fail to make instantaneous exertions for the 
relief of the army — We will not pretend to say, what may be the event ! 

Before we had an opportunity closely to view and examine into the real 
state of things, we had no conception of the almost inextricable difficul- 
ties in which we found them involved. 

We have stated matters plainly. We have been impelled to it [by] 
every consideration of Duty, by the sincere desire we have to fulfill the 
views and expectations of Congress, in our appointment, and by the prin- 
ciples of unbounded affection for our Country. These will lead us to 
every exertion and without a moments delay [or remission],^ to lop of [f] 
every exuberancy which can be effected without material injury. 

We have omitted observing that the Medical departments are destitute 
of those necessaries which are indispensible for the sick. They have 
neither wine, Tea, sugar, Coffee, Chocolate, or spirits. We wish orders 
may be given for an immediate supply as the army grow more sickly every 
hour. 

Inclosed is a Copy of a letter from the Commissaries Genl. of pur- 
chases and Issues, to the Commander in Chief.^ 

We have the Honour to be, Sir, with the highest Respect 

Yr. most Obedt. Servts. 

P Schuyler * 
Jno. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody 

163. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 1 2th May 1780. 
My dear Friend, 

I need not tell you that I was much disappointed in not meeting with 
you at Camp.^ Besides the pleasure of your Conversation I had in view to 
consult you on business: I am now launc[hejd forth without the advan- 
tage of your late Observations and Experience on the Floor, and must 

2 The words " or remission " are in the draft and the letter-book copy but were 
omitted, possibly inadvertently, from the letter sent. 

3 The letter from Charles Stewart and Ephraim Blaine, comniissaries general 
of Issues and purchases, respectively. May Q, is in the Washington Papers ; an extract 
is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 240. A brief letter of the same date from the two 
jointly to the committee is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 237: "The dis- 
tresses of the Army are such as require the attention of all concerned for their Support. 
We have delivered our Sentiments to his Excellency of this Date. Enclosed is a Copy for 
your perusal. Your present Local Situation with the Army prompts us to trouble you." 
See also a letter from General Greene to Joseph Reed, May 10, in Life of Reed, II. 191. 

■* " P Schuyler " is in the writing of a copyist ; the signatures of Mathews and 
Peabody are autographic. The letter was read May 12 and referred to Ellsworth, Muhlen- 
berg, and Houston. See nos. 163, 165, 172, post. Concerning other committees having 
similar assignments, with slight changes of personnel, see no. 189, note 2, post. 
[163]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 559. 

- Duane had recently visited headquarters at Morristown, New Jersey, on his 
way to Philadelphia (see no. 154, ante). Schuyler, as a member of the committee sent 
to headquarters, left Philadelphia about Apr. 25. 



May, 1780 135 

trust to my own little stock. There are two Points which I have much at 
Heart and which w^ill fall within the powers of your present important 
Mission. It is reported that a Quantity of Cloathing is arrived, or ex- 
pected from France: you will see I feel the distressed Circumstances of 
our state Line. Let those Worthy Men be provided for, as they are pecu- 
liarly destitute : and I have but feeble Hopes that any Measures in the 
power of our state will afiford them seasonable Relief. My Feelings for 
them w-ere painfully touched at a late Review : I did not indeed want such 
a Proof of their distress : nor can you want arguments to awaken your 
Attention.^ 

The other point requires some Investigation before there will be use in 
communicating it, which I this moment recollect 

The Marquiss La fayette I presume is with you before this day. from 
Hints we may expect essential support from our great ally in the present 
Campaign. When we have more authentic advice it will be worth com- 
municating: but you may perhaps have speedier Information thro' the 
Marquiss.* 

We have nothing from Charles Town since my last Letter to General 
Washington.^ .... 

Your Publick Letter is referred to a Committee and nothing will be left 
undone to excite this Government to exert herself for the supply of the 
Army.® .... 

^ The source of the report to which Duane alludes is not apparent. He could not 
have drawn his information from Franklin's letter of Mar. 4 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 534), which was read in Congress May 15, for that letter was among the 
despatches brought by Lafayette (see no. 170, post), who was still at headquarters on 
the I2th. On the 17th, through a memorial of Luzerne dated May 16 (Wharton, IIL 683), 
Congress was further informed of the loan of three million livres by France and of the 
despatch of clothing and other supplies. Duane might however just as well have dis- 
missed any hopes which he had of obtaining from this source clothing for the New 
York troops ; for the story of these supplies, so happily begun, is a long and disapoint- 
ing one. A year later Congress was endeavoring to unravel the tangled tale, which 
centres about the vessel called the Alliance and the doings of two captains, Pierre Landais 
and John Paul Jones, with other vessels (the Ariel, the Luke, and the Serapis) and 
other persons (particularly Franklin and Arthur Lee) having their several parts in the 
story. See for instance, Franklin's letters of May 31, Aug. 9, 10, Dec. 3, 1780, ISIar. 17, 
1781 ; Luzerne to Washington Dec. 5, 1780; Lafayette to a committee of Congress Dec. 
16, 1780; John Paul Jones to the board of admiralty Mar. 13, 1781 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., IIL 742, IV. 21, 25, 179, 182, 195, 288, 300), and the Journals, Sept. 17, Oct. 25, 
1780, Mar. 28, 1781. See also Washington to Luzerne Dec. 14, 1780, to General Knox 
Jan. 7, to General Greene Jan. 9, 1781 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 324, 354, 360). Cj. 
no. 164, post. 

■* Lafayette had landed at Boston Apr. 26, had immediately set out for Washing- 
ton's headquarters (see his letter to Washington Apr. 27, in Letters to Washington, ed. 
Sparks, 11. 441), had arrived there May 10, remained four days, then proceeded to 
Philadelphia. See Washington's letters to I-^fayette May 8, 16, to Luzerne May 11, to 
Congress May 13, to Duane May 14, to Jefferson May 15, to Heath May 15, to Clinton 
May 18 (Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 29-44), also Lafayette to Rochambeau May 19 
(ibid., p. 501). Vergennes' instructions to Lafayette, Mar. 5, are ibid., p. 496, preceded 
by the correspondence between Lafayette and Vergennes respecting the French expedi- 
tionary force under Rochambeau. Lafayette's letters to Luzerne, beginning May 17 
(Am. Hist. Ret'., XX. 341-376, 577-612), throw much light on the ways and means of 
co-operation with the French army. 

^ The letter of May 9, no. 160, ante. 

® The committee's letter of May 10, no. 162, ante. 



136 Continental Congress 

164, Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody/ 

Philadelphia May [12,] 1780. 
Dear Colonel, 

Yesterday a Letter from Mr. Carmichael dated in Feby. at Madrid and 
inclosing Copies of two Letters from him to Mr. Jay at Cadiz, was re- 
ceived by Congress, and the Gentleman who decyphered the latter informs 
me this Morning that they contain Advices of an annual Loan of three 
Million Livres, which the Court of France have agreed to supply to Con- 
gress during the War, and also of a Squadron of french ships with a body 
of land Forces to operate in America ; the latter I hope will be soon on the 
Coast, and employed to relieve Charlestown. the Letters further say that 
Don Juan was instructed by the Court of Spain to make proposals to Con- 
gress, for taking into Pay a Body of American Troops for the Reduction 
of the Floridas, but as Congress will probably send a Copy of the Letters 
to the General and it is expected that the Marquis LaFayette is at Camp, 
you will undoubtedly be informed of the particulars.^ .... 

Hon'le Colo. Peabody ® 

165. William Churchill Houston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philada. 13 May 1780. 
Sir, 

The Letter of the loth inst from your Committee was read in Congress 
yesterday, and referred.^ The Committe, of whom I am one, was in- 
structed, in the first Place, to confer with the President and Council of 
Pennsylvania ; and we have this morning been discharging that Part of 
our Duty.^ We have laid before them such Extracts of your Letter as 
seemed most proper, and explained fully and urged pressingly the object 
of it as far as they concerned the State particularly. They have given us 
the most unreserved assurances of their forward Exertions, but withal 
express great Doubts whether they will be effectual. The state, we are 
told, raises very little Beef, which is the article to which, at present, you 
particularly point, and of this Little, scarcely any is in any sort of Prepa- 
ration for use : They have ordered out People to examine the Meadows 
and Farms round the City and in the adjacent Country. From thence if 
any supply is derived, it will be more immediate than from the Counties 
mentioned by the Commissaries General in your Enclosure of the 9th, 

[164] 1 Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Signers of the Declaration. 

2 Carmichael's letter dated Feb. 19, read in Congress May 11, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Coir., III. 507. The two letters to Jay, dated Feb. 15 and 18, are ibid., pp. 
496, 502. The announcement of French assistance was made definitely to Congress in a 
memorial of the French minister May 17. See no. 163, ante, and nos. 168, 170, 175, 181- 
183, post: also Washington to Duane May 14 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 264, ed. 
Sparks, VII. 32). Concerning Don Juan de Miralles, mentioned in the letter, see no. 
161, ante. 

3 Peabody was a member of the committee at headquarters. 
[165]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 104. 

2 No. 162, ante ; cf. no. 163 ante, and nos. 172, 174, post. 

2 In Pa. Col. Recs., XII. 349, under the date May 13, it is recorded that this com- 
mittee attended the council and stated that there was a great distress at camp for want 
of meat, whereupon a conference was had on the means of a supply from Pennsylvania. 



May, I -80 137 

which will also we hope be next resorted to. The Want of Money is a 
great obstacle, what they have been able to command having been required 
for other Purposes, and you will remember that Beef is not one of the 
Articles which they are to furnish by the requisition of the 25th of Feb- 
ruary last. They also mention, and with too much Justice, the vast Con- 
sumption of Provision and Forage in the State by Persons who are, or 
pretend to be, entitled to them as being in the publick Service. When I 
consider the Facts and Explanations which they state upon this subject, 
and extend them even in a small Degree to the other States in the Union, 
I am constrained to say, what is every Day present to my Mind, that unless 
we can alter and reform the Modes of conducting the civil Departments 
of the Army, the Soldiery must separate or starve. You have not been so 
much in Congress lately as the other Gentlemen who are joined with you 
in Commission; they will witness that I have urgently and uniformly 
pressed this Consideration; and I now declare, and the Event will shew it, 
that there can be no alternative, no Compromise. Persons in the Staff 
Departments, except in Cases where they are in Camp, and all those who 
are employed at different Places throughout the Country, must, where 
it is requisite and reasonable, have a proper Increase of Pay, and go to 
Market, to the Farmers or board for their subsistence, and the Army 
have the Provisions, or the former use them and the latter go without. 
This Matter never can, it never will, be regulated by Halves. I have now 
sat six Months at the Treasury Board, and am not without some little 
Knowledge of our Finances and Resources. It is not impossible to find 
Money to support and prosecute the War on a Plan of Wages or Con- 
tracts, but the United States at Vendue would scarcely suffice to keep us 
moving on the Plans we have for two Years past pursued. The Resources 
of no Country whatever are adequate to it. It is not worth while to strug- 
gle with Impossibilities, in which we must, in the Issue, both fail and be 
ruined into the Bargain. Including the Debts which we are told remain to 
be satisfied, upwards of two Hundred ^Millions are less than the Expendi- 
tures of the Departments of the Quarter Master and Commissary Gen- 
erals for the two past Years. Is Half this sum a high Calculation for 
Provisions and Forage? The Truth is we have, comparatively speaking- 
fed one Half of the Country and their Horses, and they wanton in Plenty 
though the Army should be pinched to the last Extremes of Distress : and 
this is the more mortifying as many of those who thus forestal the Sol- 
diers of a Morsel of Bread, have the Reputation among the People in 
general of being some of the most useless and worthless of the Sons of 
Men. 

Is it not possible to discontinue the Issues of Rations altogether, and 
of every Kind, except in Camp, under which I comprehend all Detach- 
ments of the Army, all Posts where Men of Arms are. Garrisons and 
Guards. Even if W'aggoners, Boatmen and Persons daily attending in 
the Hospitals were included, we should not still be devoured as we now 
are. I do not pretend to be fully acquainted with the diflFerent Descrip- 
tions of Service where Subsistence is impracticable otherwise than from 
the publick Stores ; but I see Rations issued to great numbers of People 



138 Continental Congress 

who could, without the least Difficulty, supply themselves, and who could 
procure them at one Half the Price it costs the Publick to furnish them, 
computing all Expenses. We know that vast Quantities of Provisions and 
Forage have been and are purchased for the Army, but by the Issues to 
the Stafif and it's endless Appendages, they are dissipated and absorbed — 
certainly it would be better to give such People, where they are necessary, 
any advantage of Contract, or any W ages which Conscience or Custom 
would admit them to take, than feed them at the Expense of the Existence 
of the Army. 

I observe that the Commissaries General in their Letter, or Report, of 
the 9th inst. to the Commander in Chief mention a military Force as the 
most feasible, if not the only Means of producing a present Supply. The 
Remark is just, and it may be that the Matter must issue here. The Re- 
flection which strikes me, is the shameful and untoward Appearance of 
the Thing; to take Provisions and Forage from the Inhabitants by mili- 
tary Contribution, not merely for the Army, this every good Citizen would 
approve where requisite, but for Persons whom we see at Home, some 
doing little, some nothing, many their own private Business, and all of 
whom could be otherwise subsisted than from the publick stores, these 
Things create a general Discontent among the People, totally discourage 
them from Industry and Exertion, and indeed the Absurdity and Oppres- 
sion of such Arrangements admit of no Excuse or Palliation. When His 
Excellency lately made Requisition to New Jersey, it was fully furnished, 
even to the Impoverishment of the State. Necessity, the Affection and 
Respect of the People for their General, the Deserving and the Wants of 
the Army conspired to forward it : but I did not converse with a single 
thinking Man who failed to make the Remarks above stated, I did not 
receive a Letter in which they were not detailed. The People have not 
Ingenuity enough to discover why the Army should be starved that it's 
appendages may be fed, and indeed I believe we are the only Nation under 
Heaven who do these Things : I cannot recollect, nor have I ever heard 
that such was the Case when we formerly supported an Army in America. 

In the Course of our Conference with the Council we have been led to 
learn that they have purchased and supplied a considerable Quantity of 
their Quota of Hay, and I am of Opinion the whole will be consumed 
without a Handful reaching the Army. Perhaps indeed it is too distant: 
but if I am not mistaken Supplies of this Article have heretofore gone up 
the Delaware from below this Town, and if they did not proceed to Mor- 
riston they furnished the Communication. I cannot learn that such has 
been the Case in the present Instance. That Part of the Letter from your 
Committee which respects Forage will be duly attended to, nor will there 
be much Inconvenience in an Addition to the Quota of Supplies required 
from any particular State when Circumstances require it ; or in taking 
more of any one Article than the Quantity expressed in the Requisition, 
in Lieu of a proportionate Quantity of another according to the stipulated 
Prices. Our Appointment leads us also to a Conference with the Assem- 
bly of Pennsylvania as soon as they make a House, and we shall report to 
Congress on the several Things you mention. 



May, 1780 139 

I cannot close this Letter without adverting to a further Reason which 
encreases my Anxiety about the main Subject of it. It has long been Mat- 
ter of Speculation and Enquiry whether we might not in the Course of the 
coming Summer expect Succours on the Coast from abroad. The Possi- 
bility of this desirable Event makes the Subject of Supplies still more 
interesting. And when we consider our present Situation and that we 
have not the most flattering Prospects of Plenty the present Year, it is 
certainly a Point of W^isdom to save every Ounce that can be saved. Every 
Person supplied from the publick Stores consumes double the Quantity 
he would otherwise. 

Your Letter mentions the distressed State of the Hospitals for want of 
proper Stores. It is painful to me to say, I cannot be surprised at it. The 
prodigious numbers of idle Officers in that Department is a publick Scan- 
dal. There is I am told no Hospital here, nor within twenty Miles of the 
Town, and yet, I suppose, there are not less than a Score of Hospital Offi- 
cers who doubtless are entitled to whatever they wish to draw from the 
Purveyour's Stores, as well as ordinary Rations. You must remember 
the Return made here last winter before the Hospital was moved, when 
there were 50 Hospital Officers and 133 Patients. It is not a Trifle will 
supply the Officers here, as many of them are high in Office, though I can- 
not hear of any Thing they do — and it is to be supposed the same Circum- 
stances exist in other Places. 

I have written my Sentiments freely to you, not officially as one of the 
Committee, or on their Behalf. I suppose when they have expedited the 
Business you will hear from them. Your Committee, in my Apprehension, 
have Power to redress the Mischiefs to which I have pointed as far as 
they are redressible, by a proper Order for the Purpose. Difficulties will 
arise at first, but a little Resolution and Perseverance will reconcile them. 
We may as well be embarrassed in one \\'ay as another.* 

I am, Sir with great Regard 

your obedt. hble Sert. 

William Ch. Houston 

[P. S.] 15th . . . . ^ 

* With regard to the powers of the committee at headquarters see no. 166, post. A 
letter from President Reed to Houston's committee (Ellsworth, Houston, and Muhlen- 
berg), dated "Tuesday morning" (May 16?), is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 
18 : " The Assembly of this State having made a House yesterday we laid before them 
the Resolution of Congress of last Saturday and they have appointed a Committee to 
meet the Committee of Congress, and are ready at any Time to enter upon the Business." 
The resolution was however adopted on Friday, not Saturday. Reed's undated note to 
Speaker Bayard (in Pa. Arch., first ser., VHI. 262), though placed as if pertaining to 
the committee of May 20 (of which Ellsworth was also chairman; see no. 162, ante, and 
no. 189, post), more probably pertains to this committee. 

5 This addition of the 15th relates the accident the day before to Gouverneur 
Morris, as a result of which he lost his leg. Schuyler added to his endorsement of this 
letter, " needs no entry ", meaning that it was not to be recorded in the official letter- 
book, containing copies of letters to and from the committee. 



140 Continental Congress 

1 66. The Committee at Headquarters, Minute/ 

Memorandum Delivered to Congress by Mr. Mathews May 14, 1780.^ 
The Committee deeply impressed with the Necessity of the most im- 
mediate and Strenuous exertion to enable the Army to Take the field, to 
provide for its support and for affording that aid of Provision which 
the force of our Ally will probably Need on its arrival in these States, 
wish the Gentleman going to Congress to state the Necessity of delegating 
to a small Committee or other persons to be appointed, with advice of 
the Commander in Chief, ample Powers for Drawing forth the resources 
of the Country on this interesting ocassion,^ to make immediate applica- 

[166]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 56 (draft, in the 
writing of Peabody). 

2 Alay 14 is doubtless the date on which the memorandum was drawn up, although 
its proper chronological place seems to be subsequent to the minute of May 15 (no. 167, 
post), in which the decision to send Alathews to Congress is recorded. The memorandum 
does not appear to have been delivered to Congress textually, being probably intended 
only as a guide to Mathews in his representations to Congress. See the Journals, Maj' 19, 
and' Mathews's motion Alay 20; cj. nos. 165, 172, 173, 183, 187. 197, 203, 232, post. 

3 Under the instructions of Apr. 12 the functions of the committee sent to head- 
quarters were primarily to reform abuses in the departments (see nos. 128, 130, 145, 
ante), but the exigencies of the army, particularly in view of the expected co-operation 
of the French, were such that Washington earnestly desired the appointment of a com- 
mittee less temporary in its purpose and less limited in its scope, a committee possessed 
of practically the whole power of Congress in so far as pertained to drawing forth ade- 
quate resources from the country, whether of men or supplies. In a letter to James 
Duane May 14 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 264, ed. Sparks, VII. 32) he declared that 
" a plan must be concerted to bring out the resources of the country with vigor and 
decision ", and then added specifically : 

" This I think you will agree with me cannot be effected, if the measures to be taken 
should depend on the slow deliberations of a body so large as Congress, admitting the best 
disposition in every member to promote the objects in view. It appears to me of the 
greatest importance and even of absolute necessity, that a small Committee should be 
immediately appointed to reside near Head Quarters, vested with all the powers which 
Congress have, so far as respects the purpose of a full co-operation with the French fleet 
and army on the continent. Their authority should be plenipotentiary to draw out men 
and supplies of every kind and to give their sanction to any operations which the 
Commander in Chief may not think himself at liberty to undertake without it as well 
beyond as within the limits of these States. This Committee can act with despatch and 
energy — by being on the spot it will be able to provide for exigencies as they arise and 
the better to judge of their nature and urgency. The plans in contemplation may be 
opened to them with more freedom and confidence than to a numerous body — where 
secrecy is impossible, where the indiscretion of a single member, by disclosing may defeat 
the project." (As originally written the last clause read: "by disclosing may defeat the 
best concerted project, and their concurrence in particular points may tend to give our 
military operations a degree of boldness which they might otherwise want".) 

He then discussed the personnel of the committee already appointed (the passage is a 
postscript in the draft) : 

" There is no man who can be more useful as a member of the Committee than General 
Schuyler. His perfect knowledge of the resources of the country, the activity of his 
temper, his fruitfulness of expedients and his sound military sense make me wish above 
all things he may be appointed. I have also a very favourable opinion of Mr. Mathews' 
understanding and integrity, and I should be willing to trust everv'thing to the goodness of 
the other's [Peabody'sl intentions. If I had not some doubts of his discretion, t wish The 
Chancellor [Robert R. Livingston] or yourself could be in the appointment. A well 
composed committee is of primary importance. I need not hint that the delicacy of these 
intimations fits them only for your private ear." 

To Lafayette, Washington wrote May 20 expressing the hope that the sending of 
the committee would not be delayed a single moment and declaring, " I shall be sorry, 
however, if General Schuyler is not of the committee" {Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 46). 
The membership of the committee was not altered, but additional powers were granted 
it May 19. See the references under note 2, above. 



May, 1780 141 

tions to the several states to repeal any Laws they may have made inhibit- 
ing Continental agents or officers from purchasing, on this ocassion * to 
invest for a limited time in Congress or such persons as Congress may 
appoint Dictatorial Powers, to pass Laws authoriz'g Congress or such 
persons to impress Carpenters, Caulkers, Teampsters, waggoners, batteau 
men, horses, Carriages, Vessels, provisions, materials for building, and in 
General whatever may be Necessary to enable our Military force and that 
of our ally to operate with Vigour, to intreat the Legislatures of the 
States to give the strongest assurance to their Constituents that they will 
Cause payment to be made for services done or articles furnished for the 
public use — if the Continental officers should not be able to make imme- 
diate payment — to urge the States to hasten on their respective Quotas 
of Continental Troops, and to intrust the Supreme Executive Council of 
each state with full power to draw forth such and so many Militia as may 
be deem'd Necessary to act in Conjunction with the Combined force of 
these states and france/ 

167. The Committee at Headquarters, Minute/ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town 15th May 1780. 

The General having advised the Committee that the Marqui[s] De 
La Fayette had brought dispatches, from the Court of Virsailles, for 
Congress, 

That he had Communicated in General Terms the favourabl[e] disposi- 
tion of the King his Master, to the United States ; That his Majesty had 
ordered a respectable Naval and Land force to this Country to cooperate 
with the Armies of the United States against the Common Enemy, 

The General observed that he thought it necessary to make this Com- 
munication to the Committee to enable them to Judge of the propriety 
of attending to this Event in the arrangments they had under Consid- 
eration. 

Whereupon the Committee are unanimously of opinion that it will not 
be expedient finally to decide on the arrangements Now before them for 

* The words " on this ocassion " are an insert and were doubtless intended fur- 
ther to emphasize the temporary character of the powers recommended. 

^ Following this memorandum are these further ndtes (in the writing of 
Mathews), which have however been crossed out: 

" To get rice from Carolina 

" The reduction of the Reg'ts absolutely necessary unless immediately filled up, being 
totally unfit to take the field in their present state. 

" The reduction attended with great loss to the U. S. as they can never be recovered. 

" If they are to be reduced, a resolution sho_uld pass impowering the Committee to make 
provision for the officers 

" The army may possibly be supplied from hand to mouth by the act of Congress, 
were it stationary, but was it obliged to move e contra. The army must go into state 
after state, in order to consume the provisions. The teams can't go through some states 
for want of forage. The nearer the supplies approach the army the more time will be 
required. No two states can furnish sufficient for the purpose. Besides the expence is 
enormous. Were the whole collected they are insufficient. 

" Let the state supplies go as far as they can, the deficiency must be supplied." 

[167]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. L, f. 16 (in the writing 
of Mathews). 



142 Continental Congress 

Conducting the Quarter Master, and Commissary Generals departments 
untill the further pleasure of Congress can be Obtained ; the Committee 
being fully Convinced that to Depend entirely on the States for effectual 
Supplies under the Act of Congress of the 25th of Feby. last would be 
hazarding too much, as a failure in those supplies would expose us to the 
disgrace and mortification of not being able to improve the Generous 
Succour of our Ally to all the advantages it is Capable of. And that it 
therefore seems necessary those departments should be so arranged as to 
enable the officers thereof to make purchases for large additional supplies 
for the Army. 

That one of the Committee should immediately repair to Congress, 
personally to state their Ideas on the Subject, and to obtain their pleasure 
in the premises. 

And for which purpose Mathews proceed, without loss of time to 
Congress. 

Ph : Schuyler 
Jno. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody.^ 

168. Philip Schuyler to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Morris Town, May 15th 1780. 
Dear Sir; 

The Marquis de la Fayette, of whose arrival your Excellency has doubt- 
less been Informed, left us yesterday with dispatches from the Court of 
Versailles for Congress, and for the Chevalier De La Luzerne ; whilst 
here the Marquis detailed the Contents of the dispatches, of which he was 
fully advised, to a select few. They evince the most decided determination 
on the part of France to Support us thro the Contest, and an event will 
soon take place which will announce to all Europe and America that his 
most Christian Majesty will not confine himself to mere professions of 
amity to us or to pecuniary aids. 

I am not at present permitted to be more explicit ; but a common friend ^ 
of ours has wished me to Communicate thus much, with the Express view 
that the legislature may not seperate until they hear from Congress on 
the Subject I have alluded to. If, therefore, there should be a disposition 
to a speedy close of the session, it may perhaps be proper to signify that 
I consider it a duty incumbent on me as their servant in Congress, to in- 
treat the legislature may not rise, as there will most assuredly be a neces- 
sity of reconvening them at an early day. 

Mr. Livingston has been here and proposed to do himself the honor to 
wait on the legislature, but was prevailed on, to return to Congress to 

- This minute, which was laid before Congress as a report, is endorsed by Sec- 
retary Thomson : " Report of the com'ee sent to head quarters per Mr. Mathews — 
Read May 17, 1780 Referred to Mr. Livingston, Mr. Ellsworth, Mr. J. Jones." See no. 
166, ante. 

[168]^ Clinton Papers. V. 708. 

2 The common friend was probably General Washington. Washington himself 
wrote to Clinton to the same effect May 18 (IVritings, ed. Sparks, VII. 43). See no. 
163, note 4, ante, and no. 185, post. 



May, 1780 143 

afford his aid on the important business which will immediately claim 
the attention of that body ; ^ he has intreated me to mention this to your 
Excellency that the legislature may be advised of it; altho I am closely 
engaged with the committee appointed to the arrangement of the Staff 
departments. Yet if your Excellency and the legislature shall deem my 
presence necessary at Kingston for the purpose of giving any information 
they may require. I shall with great alacrity attend.* I am, Dear Sir, with 
every sentiment of Esteem and affection your Excellency's most obedient 
Humble Servant 

Ph : Schuyler 

[P. S.] Charlestown safe on the ist Instant; little Impression made 
by the Enemy. If it is not reduced before this day, there are reasons to 
believe it will not be at all. 

169. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters/ 

Philadelphia May 16, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

Your favour of the loth Instant hath been duly received and laid be- 
fore Congress : a Committee were appointed thereon to confer with the 
Executive and Assembly of this State; which are now sitting, the Com- 
mittee have not yet reported.^ 

Enclosed you will herewith receive a Copy of Baron Steubens Thoughts 
on reducing the Army.^ 

We have in Town favourable reports from Charles Town, but I dare 
not yet communicate them as true.* 

3 Livingston was again in attendance at Congress May 16, possibly earlier. See 
no. 149, ante, and no. 177, post. 

* Qinton replied to Schuyler May 25, urging him to come to Kingston if prac- 
ticable, to give needful information to the legislature {Clinton Papers, V. 754). See no. 
200, note 4, post. 

[169]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. IL, f. 106, no. 11, p. 10 
(letter-book copy) ; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 340. 

2 See nos. 162, 165, ante. The Journals record no report characterized as from 
this committee; however, the resolutions adopted May 19 which pertain to the committee 
at headquarters doubtless emanated from this committee. The latter resolutions were 
drawn by Ellsworth, who was a member of that committee (appointed May 12) and also 
of the committee of May 17 on the memorial of the minister of France. See no. 189, note 2, 
post. 

3 The copy transmitted by President Huntington (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, 
vol. II., f. 107) is endorsed at the end of the document, " Baron Steuben's thoughts 
on reducing the Battalions " ; but at the head of the paper is the title, " Proposals for 
the formation of our Army for next Campaign ". Steuben transmitted his proposals to 
Washington Mar. 15 (Washington Papers), and the board of war presented them to 
Congress Mar. 20 (Journals. Alar. 20, 21). An earlier report from the board on the 
question of reduction had been made Feb. 19, in consequence of a motion by Livingston 
Jan. 8, taken into consideration Jan. 10. Mar. 25 the board's report of Mar. 20 was 
postponed to the first of December. See Steuben to Washington Mar. 28 (Letters to 
U'ashington; ed. Sparks, II. 420). The problem of reduction had from the beginning 
involved the question of sending a committee to headquarters to consult General Wash- 
ington; therefore this was one of the chief problems at first assigned to the committee. 
Under the enlarged powers of May 19 the committee became more particularly engaged 
in obtaining supplies. See the resolve for appointment Apr. 6, the instructions Apr. 12, 
and nos. 194, 200, 208, 213, etc., post. 

* Charleston had actually capitulated some four days earlier. 

14 



144 Continental Congress 

170. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell)/ 

Philadelphia May i6th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of enclosing a number of Laws from the state of 
Pennsylvania, and I have received their late minutes, which I shall for- 
ward by the next opportunity, and you will perceive that they are de- 
sirous of the like in return. 

Yesterday the dispatches bro't by the Marquis were received by Con- 
gress,^ they contain intelligence to about the 4th of march, and it is con- 
sidered here as being much in our favor; I think there wou'd be some 
impropriety in being very particular, if I was under no restraint, but this 
you may be assured of, that our good and great ally is exerting himself 
in our favor, and I think will be likely soon to afiford us great relief ; Our 
enemies at New York, I understand are greatly alarmed, I suppose they 
have lately heard that they have no addition of allies, etc. etc. The Mar- 
quis's first arrival being in Boston, and I have heard had a conference 
with the Honorable assembly, therefore, I suppose they may have been 
informed of many matters of importance which has not come to my 
knowledge, as I have not yet seen him. 

We have intelligence from Madrid as late as the 15th of February, by 
which we understand that things were going on there agreeably. 

The last intelligence from Charlestown was about the middle of april, 
which no doubt will come to hand before this. 

Yesterday the Delegates from the state of Georgia attended and took 
their seats in Congress.^ 

171. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia May i6th 1780. 
Sir, 

Mr. Collins, who left this place last week, and, it is said, has gone home, 
will acquaint your Excellency with the occurrences between our last and 
his departure.^ 

Since that time, we have received letters from Dr. Franklin and Mr. 
Adams by the Marquis De Le Fayette bearing date from about the mid- 
dle of February to the first of march, and containing in substance, the fol- 
lowing intelligence : ^ . . . . 



[170]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 181. 

2 " Congress reed, a packet from France by the Marquis de la Fayette. Agreeable 
intelHgence" (Holten's Diary, May 15). Cf. nos. 163, 164, ante. 171, 175, 181-183, post. 

3 Richard Henry Lee wrote to John Adams May 17 : " Delegates from Georgia 
have lately passed thro this State to Congress from whom we learn that the enemy 
possess only Savannah and its environs in that State, the independent government being 
fully exercised in other parts of that country." Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 182. 

[171]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. loi ; Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 286. 

2 Collins obtained leave of absence May 10. He is last recorded as voting Apr. 17. 

^ Ellery appears not to have felt the obligation of secrecy as did Holten (see no. 
170, ante), but gave a summary of the letters brought by Lafayette. See nos. 163, 164, 
168, ante, 175, 181-183, post. 



May, 1780 145 

As my constituents have thought fit to remove me, I could wish to re- 
turn home as soon as possible, and therefore, hope that one of the newly 
appointed delegates may be directed to set out for this place as soon as 
may be convenient. It will be absolutely necessary in order to my return, 
that I should be furnished with a considerable sum of money to enable 
me to pay my debts, to purchase a horse, one of mine having died, and to 
bear my expenses. There is no money in the treasury. I have no acquain- 
tance that can supply me ; and I very much question whether twenty thou- 
sand dollars could be procured here, money is so scarce and the demand 
for it so great, even upon the credit of the State if I were authorized to 
offer it. Therefore, permit me to urge that that sum be sent to me by the 
first delegate ; otherwise, I may be obliged to continue here months at the 
expense of the State, without having it in my power to do it any service.* 



172. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

MoRRiSTOWN May i6th 1780. 
Sir, 

Agreable to the Instructions of Congress the Committee has consulted 
the Commander in chief about the propriety of reducing the number of 
Regiments and in conjunction with his Excellency fully discussed the 
matter. Considered It under a variety of views and Concluded that no 
Capital reduction could be adopted without hazard at this Conjuncture, 
for altho a very Considerable diminution of the public expence would 
attend a reduction, even If the Officers retired on full pay during the war, 
and were to participate in every advantage and Emolument after It with 
those remaining in Actual Service ; And altho a variety of Embarrasment 
In the formation of the Division, Brigades etc. etc. and in the disipline 
of the Army result from the paucity of the numbers which Compose the 
Several Corps ; Yet reasons exist which forcibly militate against the re- 
duction and which arise from the following facts : The certainty that the 
Campaign will be opened, and the Army take the field, before the neces- 
sary arrangements Incident on a reduction can possibly be Effected. The 
particular Conjuncture of the day : The aversion which the soldiery in 
general entertain to a change of officers. The personal attachments which 
Induced many to Engage In the service during the war or which has been 
acquired since they have been In It, The necessity of attending to, and 
temporizing with the feelings of men whose virtue is put to the severest 
tryal by the distresses they experience from a Combination of Almost 
every specie of hardship. A Consideration of these facts has led the Com- 

* Writing again to Governor Greene. May 2Z, Ellery returns to the subject of 
money. Among other things he says : " I have applied to my acquaintances for a small 
sum to pay my washerwoman, and cannot even get that, so scarce is it and so difficult 
to be had .... I am not the only poor delegate here ; many are in the same circum- 
stances, and have been obliged to write to their states for cash." Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 289. 

[172]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 24 (in the writing 
of Schuyler), f. 20 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 22 (letter-book copy). 



146 Continental Congress 

mittee to determine not to Attempt a present reduction of more than the 
5th New York, and She[l]burns and Livingston ['s] Regiments, and we 
do ourselves the honor to Inclose Your Excellency Copy of our resolutions 
for the reduction of those Corps. ^ It appears Improper to publish them 
here until Congress has decided on what terms the reduced officers are to 
retire from the service, which decision we Intreat to be favored with as 
soon as may be. 

In considering the Subject we have stated It became necessary to Ex- 
amine Minutely the returns of the Army In detail. And we have the Mor- 
tification to observe that some Companies are reduced to four of rank and 
file; That a Majority of the Residue do not exceed fifteen; That the num- 
ber of recruits which have joined towards compleating the quotas called 
for by the act of Congress of the 9th February last are very Inconsider- 
able Indeed. That should the deficiencies called for by that act be fur- 
nished the army would still be much weaker than It was Intended to be 
at that time as many have been discharged and great disertions have taken 
place since. That some states appear to have considered as part of their 
quota Citizens employed In the various Staff departments of the Army 
and who were never engaged either as soldiers or Even as regimented or 
Inlisted artificers During the war. That from Information which the 
Committee has obtained, It appears the mode adopted by several of the 
states, perhaps by all, to comply with the requisition of Congress of the 
9th of February last, does not afford the most distant prospect that the 
Army will be reinforced with one quarter part of the Compliment defi- 
cient and In all probability not even with that small portion until towards 
the End of the Campaign. As from this state of facts the necessity of 
Immediate measures for a speedy and Effectual augmentation of the army 
appears evident, the Committee conceived It a duty, especially engaged as 
the attention of Congress now is with other very Interesting and Impor- 
tant Matters, that the deficiency In Each line of the army should be stated 
In a return which with such remarks as seemed requisite, we have the 
honor to Inclose ; ^ And that we should take the liberty to propose to Con- 
gress a set of resolutions calculated to draw from the states a Temporary 
supply of men to Compleat the Establishment proposed in February last, 
as Inlistments or drafts for the war cannot possibly take place with suffi- 
cient celerity to be of any service in the Operations of the present Cam- 

2 The proposed resolves for the reduction of the regiments of Colonels Henry 
Sherburne and James Livingston are in the report of May 16, no. 174, post. See also 
no. 166, note 4, ante. 

3 The committee's " Remarks on the Return " are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, 
vol. III., fif. 347-351 (original) ; no. 39, vol. II., f. 57 (draft by Schuyler) ; no. 39, vol. I., 
f. 32 (copy by Mathews). The original bears the endorsement: "Remarks on the 
Return Laid before Congress May 22d, 1780 N. 2, enclosed in letter May 16." The copy 
has essentially the same endorsement in the writing of Mathews, with this addition in 
Thomson's writing, " The original returned to the com'ee by order of Congress ", and 
the further addition by Mathews, " and reed, per Jno. Mathews ". The " Return " is 
in no. 39, vol. III., ff. 339-345. Following is the closing paragraph of the " Remarks " : 

" It might not be Improper therefore to press the States In the first Instance for the 
deficiences called for by the Commander In Chief In his Circular Letter subsequent to 
the act of Congress of the 9th February last, and for such additional Numbers as he shall 
signify that the deaths, desertions, and other Casualties, have amounted to since his 
requisition." 



May, 1780 147 

paign.^ And that It would be hazarding too much to rely altogether on 
aids from the Militia, as experience has evinced It too precarious a depen- 
dance especially for offensive operations, in as much as they frequently 
retire from the field in most critical conjunctures and when their continu- 
ance would be of the highest Importance.^ 
We have the honor to be with great respect 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient Humble Servants 

Ph : Schuyler 
Nathl. Peabody 

[Endorsed:] A Letter from the com'ee at head quarters May 16, 1780 
Read 22 Enclosed, i Returns of the army, 2 Remarks on the return, 3 
Resol : for reducing certain regts. 4 Res : for recruiting the army 

173. The Committee at Headquarters, Report/ 

[May 16, 1780.]^ 

Resolved That the executive powers of the States be severally required 
to forward to the Army with all possible dispatch, all recruits already 
raised towards compleating the Quotas assessed to them respectively by 
the Act of Congress of the 9th day of February last. 

Resolved That the states be severally required to Compleat said quotas 
by drafts from the Militia to Serve in the Continental Army until the last 
day of December next Inclusive unless sooner discharged, on the Esti- 
mates of deficiency transmitted them by the Commander in chief. 

Resolved That the Commander in chief transmit to the executive of the 
states respectively, returns of all additional deficiences which have arisen 
from Casualties since the Estimates mentioned In the preceeding reso- 
lution. 

Resolved that so much of such additional deficiency as is occasioned 
by death, desertion or discharge of men who were engaged to serve beyond 
the last day of September next, or during the war, be made good by the 
States in the Manner directed by the second resolution. 

Resolved that the drafts directed to be made by these Resolutions be 
delivered on or before the 20th of June next, to the Inspector General or 
any of his deputies or assistants with the Army or with any detachments 
thereof, to be annexed and Incorporated with the line of the States re- 
spectively. In such Manner as the Commander In chief shall direct. 

Resolved That the Inspector General make Returns to the board of war, 
and to the Commander In chief from time to time of all men received by 
himself or any of his deputies or assistants in virtue of the resolutions of 

* The committee's propositions on this subject are no. 173, post. 

* Consideration of this letter was assigned for May 23 but was then postponed, 
and on May 30 it was resolved that it was not expedient at present to make any partial 
reduction of the army. See no. 206, post. 

[173P Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 28 (in the writing 
of Schuyler). 

2 This report is endorsed : " Resolutions proposed for the consideration of Con- 
gress [thus far by Schuyler, the remainder by Thomson] by the com'ee at head quarters 
Read May 22, 1780. Enclosed in letter of May 16." 



148 Continental Congress 

the 9th of February last, and of these; noting the States from whom the 
men are received, and distinguishing those engaged to Serve during the 
war, from those engaged to Serve to the last day of December next 
Inclusive. 

174. The Committee at Headquarters, Report/ 

In Committee of Congress 

MoRRiSTOWN May 19th [i6th] 1780.^ 

Resolved That It is the opinion of this Committee, That the fifth Regi- 
ment in the New York line lately Commanded by Colonel De Bois should 
be reduced and the Non-Commissioned officers and privates be annexed to 
and incorporated with such other Regiments in that line, as the Com- 
mander In Chief shall judge proper 

Resolved that the Regiments now Commanded by Colonel James Liv- 
ingston, and by Colo. Shelburne be reduced, and that the Non-Commis- 
sioned Officers and privates of both said Regiments be annexed to and 
incorporated with such other corps as the Commander in Chief shall think 
proper 

The Committee having Consulted with the Commander in chief respect- 
ing the allowances that ought to be made to the officers of the Regiments 
proposed to be reduced, and the Terms on which they ought to retire from 
the Service, beg leave to suggest to Congress as their opinion that it will 
be most for the Hon'r of the United States, and the Satisfaction of the 
Army In General, That the officers of all Regiments to be reduced should 
be Considered as disengaged from the Army, liable only to be call'd upon 
in future in Common with other Citizens, and retire on full pay during 
the war and entitled to all Emoluments after that period that are held up 
by any resolutions of Congress to officers who should Continue to serve 
in the Army during the War. 

All of which is Humbly Submitted by 

Ph : Schuyler 
Nathl. Peabody 

175. The President of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Philada May 17, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am warranted from undoubted Authority,' and directed by Congress 
to acquaint you that we may daily expect the Arrival of a considerable 

[174]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 30, no. 39, vol. II., 
f. 98 (draft by Schuyler). 

2 The date should no doubt be May 16. Schuyler's draft is so dated, and is 
endorsed : " Report of the Committee for reducing Colos. Dubois, Sherburne and Livings- 
tons Regts. Sent to Congress May 16, 1780." The report presented to Congress is 
endorsed : " May 19, 1780 Proceedings of Com'ee at Headquarters for reducing certain 
regim'ts read May 22, 1780. Enclosed in letter of 16 May." 

[i75]iLibrary of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 341. 

2 The "undoubted authority" was the minister of France, who had just laid 
before Congress a memorial (Wharton, Rez'. Dipl. Corr., III. 683) indicating the pur- 



May, 1780 149 

Armament of Naval and Land Forces from France to act in Conjunction 
with our Forces which gives us great Reason to hope we m.ay be able to 
expell our Enemies from all their Posts in the United States. 

Although I am directed to communicate this Intelligence to you it is 
desired it may be kept as secret as the Nature of the Case will admit ; at 
the same Time it is conjectured the Enemy in New York have got some 
Intimation of the Intelligence as they appear greatly allarmed and are 
strengthening their \\'orks in New York and talk publicly that if the News 
gets to Charles Town before the Place is taken General Clinton will raise 
the Siege and abandon his Posts .... 

176. Samuel Holten, Diary,^ 

[May 17, 18, 1780.] ' 

17. I met the medical com't. 

18. Congress sit twice this day and till 1 1 o'Clock at night upon impor- 
tant matters. 

pose of his government. See the Journals, Alay 17-22, and nos. 181-183, post\ cf. nos. 
163, 164, 170, 171, ante. Congress also had before them recent letters of Franklin and 
Adams (see the Journals, May 15). Many of Washington's letters from about May 13 
relate to the subject of the expected French aid. See, for instance, his letter to Governor 
Trumbull May 19. Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth sen, X. 164. 

[ij6]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 93. 

2 On May 17 Jacob Hiltzheimer, keeper of the Continental stables, addressed 
to the President of Congress the following letter : 

" Hon'd Sir, Am Very Sorry to Trouble you w^ith These Lines but the necessity is such 
that I can Not Avoid it Have Sixty Horses in the Stable belonging to Members of 
Congress and Not Hay to Last them more than 4 days been afraid of this and have 
Spoke of it three weeks ago to Several Members Told them that I had an order on 
Mr. Hillegas for 40000 Dollars but he had not Money to pay it on Monday Last I 
mentioned it to the Treasury Board they then gave me a fresh order for 6000 Dollars but 
the Treasurer can Not even pay that small sum in the mean time the Hay and grain will 
be gone and what to do I know Not without the President is Kind enough to give me 
advice." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XH., f. 25. 

The letter, as shown by the Journals and by the endorsement, was referred to the board 
of treasury, but an additional endorsement, in a hand other than Thomson's, reads, 
" N. B. May 28 No relief can be given ". However, other orders for the purpose were 
later issued, as follows: June 19, 40,000 dollars; July 25, 60,000. See no. 64, note 2, ante, 
and nos. 403, 468, post. 

In the Journals of the same day appears the report of a committee on the device of a 
seal, the report having been presented May 11 (see the Journals, although the report 
itself is endorsed by Thomson, "Delivered May 10, read; recommitted"). The com- 
mittee that offered this report had been appointed Mar. 25 (James Lovell, John Morin 
Scott, and William Churchill Houston; the latter drew the report). For the earlier 
action respecting the seal see the Journals, July 4, Aug. 20, 1776, and vol. H., no. 77, 
of these Letters. The report of Aug. 20, 1776, is included in the items of unfinished busi- 
ness Jan. 23, 1777. Memoranda of the committee of Mar. 25 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 23, 
f. 125) indicate that there was no intermediate action between 1776 and 1780. The report 
of May 17, 1780, utilized devices drawn by Francis Hopkinson, and Hopkinson's efforts 
to obtain payment for this " fancy work " make a story of their own. This story, with 
emphasis upon Hopkinson's part in the design of the flag of the United States, is related 
in George E. Hastings, The Life a}id Works of Fraitcis Hopkinson, pp. 240-257. See 
the Journals, May 25, July 3, 10, Aug. 25, Sept. 9, Oct. 27, Nov. 24, 1780; Mar. 23. 24, 
Apr. 2, 21, July 23, Aug. 23, 1781. The question of the seal was again brought forward 
in 1782 and on June 20 a seal was adopted. See especially the letter of Charles Thomson 
to William Barton, June 24, 1782, in the next volume. Some phases of the history of the 
seal are given by M. E. Deutsch, in an article, " E Pluribus Unum ", in the Classical 



150 Continental Congress 

177. Robert R, Livingston to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, i8th May 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

You may be surprized at hearing of me again from this place after my 
determination to leave it. I had indeed set out but was stoped by the im- 
portant intelligence that has been communicated to you and which is too 
delicate to dwell upon in a letter.- 

It gives me extreme pain to see the Vermont business so long delayed, 
but we find it impossible to proceed in it for want of a full representation; 
the moment we have, I shall endeavour to bring it on,^ if I can stay so long 
tho' as my money and credit are exhausted and my affairs not in the most 
promising situation at home I have some doubts on this point. You have 
heard of poor Morris's misfortune in the loss of his leg; he bears it with 
becoming fortitude and is, I hope, in a fair way of recovery. 

We have an account by the way of New Berry Port that a fleet of 8 
sail of the line were on the coast of Georgia on their way to Charlestown 
on the 3d of May; should this prove true and our other expectations be 
answered we have every reason to hope that this campaign will terminate 
the war in America 

Journal, XVIII. 387-407 (April, 1923). See also Gaillard Hunt, A History of the Seal 
of the United States (Washington, 1909). 

There was a long-drawn-out controversy between Hopkinson, who was treasurer of 
loans, and the commissioners of the board of treasury, Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson, 
aided and abetted by Charles Lee, secretary to the board. Letters of Forman and Gibson, 
giving their side of the controversy, are noted in the Journals. Two letters from 
Hopkinson to the investigating committee, which were no doubt in the hands of the com- 
mittee when they made their report of Aug. 25, are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. 
XII., ff. 35, 45, dated July 6 and 18, respectively. Cf. no. 298, post. Apropos of this con- 
troversy is the following letter from Hopkinson to Nathaniel Appleton, commissioner of 
the loan office of Massachusetts : 

" Philada. Sepr. 3d, 1780. 

"Sir, I just now received yours of the 21st of August enclosing Returns etc. which 
I shall deliver to the Board of Treasury. You say ' the Bills on France have not come to 
Hand' — if you mean Bills for 100, 200, 300 Doll. etc. like those on Spain last sent, I can 
only say none were ordered for you by the Board of Treasury. If you mean Interest 
Bills on France, I have not forwarded any since May 6th when I sent a Supply by 
Jos. Millet, agreeably to the inclosed Invoice, for which your Receipt hath not come to 
Hand. I hope they did not miscarry. As I think you may want a further Supply of those 
Bills, I shall request an Order from the Board in your Favour; but am not sure they 
will grant it, be the Occasion ever so urgent, they being extreamly punctilious and having 
ordered that Requisitions from the Commissioners of Loans should not come thro' my 
Hands but immediately from themselves. Your Returns appear to me very plain and 
satisfactory, but I doubt whether they will please the Board, not being framed on the 
very learned Model they have devised, of which, no doubt, a Copy has been forwarded 
to you with peremptory Instructions according to the Stile of the Board." MSS. of the 
late William D. Ely, Providence. 

3 The " important matters " which occupied Congress May 18 were those pre- 
sented in the memorial of the French minister. See no. 175, anfc. 

[177]! Clinton Papers, V. 717. 

2 See nos. 149, 163, 168, ante. 

3 See nos. 187, 188, post. 



May, 1/80 151 

178. Samuel Holten to the Postmaster General 
(Richard Bache).^ 

Front Street, May 18, 1780, 
Sir, 

The inclosed letter I have laid before the committee of Congress on 
the post office, and they are of opinion that you can make the alterations 
proposed without any particular directions from Congress or the Com- 
mittee : If you have any objections to making the proposed alterations, or 
want any farther powers, please to be so kind as to let me know it." 

179. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia May the i8th 1780. 
Dear S'r, 

.... As we for some time Past have had no money in the treasury 
and those who Board us must Recive there Pay every week or our Sub- 
sistance must faile, this want of money Puts us in an uncomfortable Situ- 
ation for we Can neither Stay here nor Returne home hope if you have 
any in your treasury you will Send Some to your Poore Dellegates by the 
first oppertunety. 

I Shall Expect to be Relieved at the furthest in September and Shood 
be glad to be Sooner if it Can be Convenently Done. 

P S I this Day Reed, your Feavour of the 28th of April and laid it 
before Congress and by them Referd to the Board of war who are to Re- 
port to Congress - every Exertion in my Power to Carry it in to Effect 
you may Depend upon. 

Similar applications haveing been made by the States of newyork and 
Pensylvana I Expect to Share the Same fate with them. 

NF 

180. Elbridge Gerry to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia i8th May 1780. 
Sir, 

General Arnold in his Letter to Congress of the 12th Instant having 
Reference to the Draught of a Report, which I made at the Board of 

[178]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 201. 

2 Bache replied, May 22 : "I am honored with yours of the i8th Inst, inclosing 
an application of the Council of Massachusetts for an alteration of the posts between 
Boston and Falmouth. I have consulted with the surveyor of the Eastern District respect- 
ing this matter, and beg leave to refer you to his Sentiments thereon which are inclosed. 
Tho' the plan is not exactly similar to the one proposed by the Council yet as the object 
they wish for will be answered I trust and hope they will be satisfied" (ibid., f. 202). 
See no. 191, post. 

[179]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 21. 

- The New York case was doubtless that decided Apr. 4. See no. 126, ante. The 
Pennsylvania application has not been located in the Journals. For the decision on the 
New Hampshire application see the Journals, June i, and no. 209, post. 

[i8o]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. X., f. 227. 



152 Continental Congress 

Treasury whilst a Member thereof, has rendered it necessary for me to 
rectifie several Errors, if they can be so called, under which the General 
has laboured in stating that Matter. 

Congress having on the 27th of April 1779 referred to the Board of 
Treasury General Arnold's Petition of the same Date, on the 28th I pro- 
posed the Draught mentioned to be adopted by them, as their Report to 
Congress, soon after it was read, the Board being disposed to rise, 
directed it to be filed with the Petition for future Consideration ; but before 
this could take Place, the Commissioners of the Chamber of Accounts to 
whom General Arnolds Accounts had been long before referred, applied 
to the Secretary or Clerk of the Board for that Petition, and probably 
received with it, inadvertently, the Draught mentioned, be this as it may, 
I knew nothing of the Matter then, nor for a considerable Time after, 
untill some Gentlemen of the Treasury informed me, that General Arnold 
had been propagating such a Report as is contained in his Letter to Con- 
gress. I must confess that I could scarcely credit the Information, being 
conscious to myself, that General Arnold had no just Grounds for such 
a Proceeding, but presuming it had originated by Mistake, I enquired of 
the Members and other officers of the Treasury and Chamber of Accounts 
whether General Arnold had received his Intelligence from them, and was 
informed, that he had not, but on the other Hand, that some of them had 
explained to him the Matter, this I supposed would have been satisfac- 
tory to him, and altho' he had acted unkindly in spreading the Rumour, 
I presumed he would rectifie it, and tho't no more thereof, but not long 
after, conferring with him at the Door of Congress on the Subject of his 
Accounts, which I had taken much Pains to have settled to his Satisfac- 
tion and with Justice to the Publick, he hinted to my great Surprise the 
Circumstance before related, and after I had declared to him on my Honor, 
that the Paper was sent to the Commissioners without my Consent or 
Knowledge, he still appeared desirous of beleiving [sic] otherwise. I then 
informed him that he was at Liberty to think as he pleased on the Matter, 
and that he could not produce any Evidence, or a single Circumstance in 
Support of his Suggestion : on which he said, that he tho't he had received 
his Information from Mr. Carmichael, who coming up to us soon after, 
was interrogated on the Subject, and utterly denied that he had given 
such Information, and further said that he knew or beleived the contrary. 
Having thus stated Facts to the best of my Memory. I must beg the In- 
dulgence of Congress in making a few Remarks on the General's Letter. 
He first says, that the Draught of the Report was " designed for the Com- 
missioners of the Chamber of Accounts to make on his Accounts ". herein 
he is unfortunately confuted by the Copy of the Report which he has 
transmitted to Congress, for it begins thus " The Comm'e having likewise 
considered a petition from Major General Arnold of the 27th Instant 
referred to them by Congress, beg Leave to report ", and if the General 
will be at the Trouble of looking at the printed Journals of Congress of 
the 27th of April 1779 he will find his Petition was referred to the Board 
of Treasury, and not to the Commissioners of Accounts; how then can 
it be supposed that the Report was draughted for the Commissioners, 



May, 1780 153 

when it otherwise appears by the Draught itself? And here it may be 
proper to enquire, how the General came by an original Paper of the 
Treasury, for speaking of the Draught he says, " the original I have in 
his (meaning my own) Hand writing." I have no objection for my own 
Part to his being indulged with the original of that or any other of my 
Essays, but I cannot learn from any of the Officers of the Treasury that 
he is properly possessed of that Paper, and am unable to conceive that any 
Person, even a Member of Congress, has a Right to take from any office 
an original Paper without being properly authorized so to do, or that the 
General is not highly reprehensible for this his Conduct. 

General Arnold is equally unhappy in his next Observation, that " the 
Report as appears by the Date was drawn up previous to the Commission- 
ers examining his accounts ", for it is well known that his Accounts had 
been a long Time before under the examination of the Commissioners of 
Accounts, altho' they had not finished that Business. 

The General is still more unfortunate in his third assertion, that the 
Report was " presented to him by one of the Commissioners as Instruc- 
tions or the Sentiments of the Treasury Board sent to them to govern in 
the Settlement of his Accounts ", for the Commissioners utterly deny this, 
as shall appear to Congress when they deem it expedient. I shall forbear 
to make any Remarks on the Inconsistency of supposing, that the Draught 
alluded to was intended as Instructions, or that it could have been sent in 
such a Form, and in a Scrawl, " as the Sentiments of the Treasury ", to 
the Commissioners, to govern them in the Settlement of General Arnolds 
Accounts. 

The General Concludes by saying " How far Mr Gerry's Conduct in 
giving private Instructions to the Commissioners of Accounts, tending to 
influence their Conduct in a Matter that was to be ultimately judged and 
determined by the Treasury Board of which he was a Member can be 
Justified upon the principles of Honor or Equity, or how far his Instruc- 
tions and Influence have operated in occasioning the Disputes which have 
arose in the Settlement of my Accounts, Congress will determine ". And 
here Congress will give me Leave to request, that General Arnold may be 
furnished with a Copy of this Letter, and have Leave to produce his Evi- 
dence, if any he has that I ever gave " private Instructions " of any Kind 
" to the Commissioners of Accounts ". the assertion, I declare on my 
Honor to be an Untruth, and submit to Congress, whether any Part of my 
Conduct whilst a Member of the Board of Treasury, or of Congress, has 
been inconsistent with. And whether General Arnolds Conduct in this 
aflfair can be justified on " the principles of Honor or Equity ". the last 
Part of this paragraph seems to explain General Arnolds Conduct in en- 
deavouring to fix on me an unmerited Stigma, for therein he suggests that 
my " Instructions and Influence has operated in occasioning the Disputes 
which have arose in the Settlement of his Accounts ". I have never been 
desirous of occasioning Disputes in the Settlement of General Arnolds 
Accounts; if they are right they will undoubtedly be allowed, and he will 
have no Reason to apprehend Injury from s[uch] Disputes, but if erro- 



154: Continental Congress 

neous (which seems to be the Opinion of all the Boards and Committees 
who have reported thereon) surely they ought not only to be disputed but 
corrected, or disallowed, but I presume enough has been said to convince 
Congress, that General Arnolds Observations relative to my Conduct are 
without Foundation, and that they are equally so with Respect to the 
Commissioners of Accounts. The Board of Treasury whose Business it 
was to attend to the Conduct of the Commissioners never had Reason to 
suppose (whilst I was a Member thereof) that they were capable of undue 
Influence, and if we may judge from their Disputes with General Arnold, 
he has no Reason to conceive that Jie can influence them ; on the other 
Hand, they had ever manifested in their office, such Abilities and Integrity, 
that Congress as well as the Board of Treasury always tho't it their Duty 
to support them. But Sir, if persons who have Accounts to settle with the 
publick are thus permitted to misrepresent the Conduct of the Officers of 
Boards instituted with proper Checks for the Security of Individuals as 
well as the publick, and upon every Dispute relative to the propriety of 
a Charge to appeal to Congress, or Committees thereof ; will not the In- 
tention of Congress in providing such Institutions be utterly frustrated, 
and may not the publick Accounts be as well adjusted, and a considerable 
Expence be saved, by dismissing the Officers established for this Purpose, 
and by permitting such persons to choose or be their own arbiters ? The 
unprovoked attack made by General Arnold on my Character has obliged 
me to be thus explicit which I hope Congress will excuse, and remain Sir 
with every Sentiment of Respect for them as well as Yourself " 

your most obedt. and most hum Sevt 

E Gerry 

i8i. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia 19 May, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am directed to acquaint you that there being but one Delegate from 
Maryland attending at Congress that State is not represented. 

2 Gerry presented this matter in writing for the reason that since Feb. 18 he had 
refused to attend Congress. See nos. 55, 59, 124, 137, ante. This letter, which bears the 
endorsement, " In answer to the last paragraph of a letter of 12 from B Arnold ", was 
read in Congress the same day, but if there was any discussion of it or any action taken 
upon it the Journals make no record of it. As mentioned in the letter, Arnold had pre- 
ferred a petition to Congress Apr. 27, 1779, asking for the settlement of his accounts. 
The petition was referred to the board of treasury, and exactly one year later, Apr. 27, 
1780, the board made its report (dated Apr. 22; see also the Journals, Oct. i, 16, 21, 
Dec. 9, 1779, Feb. 14, 15, 23, 1780). May 10, 1780, Arnold asked for a hearing before 
Congress and was instructed to put his objections to the board's report in writing. 
Accordingly he wrote his letter of May 12, which was read in Congress May 15 and on 
the following day was referred to a committee. The report of this committee is in the 
Journals, July 31 (see also ibid., July 17, 21). Cf. no. 465, post; see also Austin, Lije of 
Gerry, I. 316-318. 

[i8i]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 34; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 342; Arch, of Md., XLIII. 498. 



May, lySo 155 

That Matters of great Importance are now lying before Congress, which 
require the United Councils, and vigorous Exertions of all the States ; 
and it [is] earnestly requested that Maryland may be represented in Con- 
gress as soon as possible." 

182. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

In Congress May 19th 1780. 
Sir, 

Congress have received authentick Information that his most Chris- 
tian ]\Iajesty is preparing to send a powerful naval and Land force to some 
part of the Continent of North America. This force generously calculated 
either to produce a Diversion in our favour, or to forward the Operation 
of our Arms by being directed to the same object, may either by our Exer- 
tions be made the means of delivering our Country in the Course of the 
Campaign from the ravages of War. or being rendered ineffectual thro' 
our Supineness serve only to sully the reputation of our Arms, to defeat 
the benevolent Intention of our great Ally and to disgrace our Confed- 
eracy in the Eyes of all Europe." 

Every State that reflects upon the Depreciation of the Currency and 
their own Deficiency in the payment of their Taxes must necessarily con- 
clude that the Treasury is exhausted, the military Departments are at a 
Stand for the want of Money to put them in Motion. Congress have no 
Resources but in your Spirit and Virtue, upon these they confidently rely. 
You know the Value of the prize for which you contend, nor need you be 
informed how much you are interested in a speedy Termination of this 
distressing and expensive War. 

But as the smallest Disappointment in the requisitions they make may 
be attended with the most serious Consequences, they have endeavoured 
so to limit their demands as not to exceed your Power to comply with 
them 

The sum for which you are called upon by the within Resolution they 
flatter themselves you will furnish to the Treasury by the fifteenth of June 

' See the Journals, May i8. The letter to Delaware, which " hath been for some 
time and yet remains unrepresented in Congress ", is in the Letter-Book, p. 343. Chief 
among the matters of importance was that of co-operation with the expected French 
naval and military forces (see no. 175, ante, and no. 183, post) ; but calling upon Mary- 
land and Delaware for representation appears to have been directly in consequence of the 
insistence of the New York delegates upon the urgency of the Vermont affair (see nos. 
187, 188, post). In accordance with this request Governor Lee wrote to the absent mem- 
bers, John Hanson and John Henry, jr., May 26 {Arch, of Md., XLHL 182). The former 
attended June 14, the latter June 23. Meanwhile Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, a newly 
elected member, attended June 2, but tarried only a few days. 

[182]! Copied from the original (to New Hampshire), then in the possession of 
Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia ; other texts of the circular are : Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book. VH. Z7 \ Arch, oj Md., XLHL 497; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers 
(M. H. S.), XL 194; Mass. Arch., CCH. 184; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 
114; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. IV., pp. 67-77 (three copies) ; 
ibid.. President's Letter-Book (Papers Cont. Cong., vol. XV.), p. i; Pa. Arch., first sen, 
VIII. 251 ; Clinton Papers, V. 722; R. I. Recs.. IX. 107. 

- See the Journals, May 17-22, nos. 163, 164, 170, 171, 175, 181, ante, and nos. 
183, 184, 187, 190, 201, post. See also Arch, of Md., XLIII. 184. 



156 Continental Congress 

at furtherest, without Neglecting to Discharge the Orders that have been 
drawn upon you for the whole of which you will receive Credit on your 
Account of Taxes due on the first of ]\Iarch last 

As this Money is absolutely necessary to put the Army in Motion inde- 
pendent of the purchase of Provisions, We trust you will by no means 
remit your Attention to the forwarding your Quota of Supplies, which 
the present Exigency renders more requisite than ever. 

It may not be improper to suggest to you, that if a strict and immedi- 
ate Collection of Taxes should be insufficient to procure the necessary 
Sums within the Time limit, it may perhaps be more speedily obtained by 
Loans. 

Congress for the greater Dispatch, have thought it expedient to appoint 
a Committee to assist the Commander in Chief in drawing out Supplies. 
As their Powers will be inadequate to the purposes of their Appointment 
unless they shall derive their force from the States, to whom they will be 
under the Necessity of Applying, They most earnestly request you, if you 
should find it inconvenient to continue your Sessions, to lodge such Pow- 
ers in your Executive, or some part of your Legislative Body, as will en- 
able them at this interesting Period on the Application of the Committee 
to call forth the Resources of your State. 

Congress trust that these Requisitions will not appear unnecessary, 
when, compared with the Information on which they are grounded, In 
the Importance of which they doubt not that you will find a sufficient 
Apology for the Demand, and the warmth with which they intreat you 
To carry these Measures into immediate Execution.^ 

By Order of Congress 

Sam. Huntington President 

183. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 20 ]\Iay 1780. 
Sir, 

This will be delivered by the ^Marquis de la Fayette." 

By the Acts of Congress herewith enclosed of the 31st Jany, i6th ^ and 
20th Instant your Excellency will be informed of the Measures adopted 
by Congress, and the Powers with which you are invested for co-operating 
with the Forces of our Ally in Case they arrive. Further Powers and 

3 In the sparks MSS. (IX. 88) is a memorandum of two resolutions of Congress, 
one of them the resolve of Sept. i, 1779, not to emit bills in excess of two hundred million 
dollars, the other the resolve of May 19, 1780, calling on the states (except North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia) to pay into the treasury ten million dollars within 
thirty days. At the end of the memorandum is one word, " Clamor ". 

[183]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 3. 
~ See the Journals, May 20. Samuel Holten says in his Diary, May 20, " The 
Marquis made us a visit ", meaning by " us " probably the Massachusetts delegates. 

3 This may be an error for the 17th. See no. 201, post. However, the resolve 
of May 16 relative to Lafayette appears to have been enclosed with this letter. From 
the letter of May 29 it is inferred that it was the purpose to enclose with this letter 
Luzerne's memorial and the order of Congress referring it to a committee, but that the 
memorial was omitted. The resolves of Jan. 31 transmitted were those relating to 
co-operation with France, and comprising the principal record of that day's proceedings. 



May, I J 80 157 

Instructions are also given to the Committee at Head Quarters to adopt 
every necessary Measure in [our Pov^^er]* to enable the Army to take the 
Field and for supporting the Forces of his most Christian Majesty in Case 
of their Arrival. 

P. S I am favd with your Despatches of the 13th, 15th, and i6th 
Instant 

184. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia May 20, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am honoured with your Excellency's several Despatches of the ist 
Instant by Messenger Brown and immediately laid them before Congress, 
hoping to obtain the necessary Acts respecting their Contents, and return 
them by him : the Letters were committed, and one report brought in to 
establish a Hospital near New London, some other Matters not yet re- 
ported upon," and while these Matters were under Consideration, some 
important Intelligence arrived from Europe, which hath engrossed the 
Attention of Congress almost Night and Day, to give Despatch to the 
Acts of Congress which you will receive by this Conveyance; and are of 
such Consequence that Brown could no longer be detained, but is directed 
to. forward them with all possible Despatch.^ .... 

185. Philip Schuyler to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Morristown, May 20th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

General Washington informs me that he has wrote you on the Subject 
I mentioned in my last by Letters from Philadelphia.' I am informed 
that Congress has appointed a committee, Livingston of New York, Jones 
of Virginia and Elsworth of Connecticut, to lay before the States the 
Intentions of the King of France and to make such requisitions as may 
be necessary.^ 

The committee of which I am one, have reported that the Regiment 
late Du Bois's, should be reduced, that the officers should retire on full 
pay during the war, and be Entitled to the Emoluments heretofore prom- 
ised by Congress. I mention this that if your Excellency and the Legis- 

* The words " our Power " are in the letter-book copy but were omitted in the 
letter sent. The further powers of the committee at headquarters are in the Journals, 
May 19. See no. 166, ante, and nos. 187, 196, 197, 203, post. 

[184]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 196; Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, XL 196. 

2 See the Journals, May 11, 18, 23, June 19, July 29. 

3 See no. 182, ante. 
[iSs]^ Clinton Papers, V. 729. 

2 See no. 168, ante. 

3 See the Journals, May 17-22, 26, 27, and nos. 187, 196, post. 



158 Continental Congress 

lature should wish to have the regiment kept up (as it will be of little extra 
expence to the State) their pleasure may be signified that I may take the 
proper measures.* 

i86. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress.^ 

MoRRisTowN May 21st, 1780. 
Sir, 

I was this morning Informed that about two hundred batteaumen were 
engaged at Albany for the public service, but that they had determined to 
leave the service as they could not procure their pay ; Impressed with the 
necessity of retaining a body of men whose services, should any offensive 
operations be prosecuted against the Enemy, I deemed essential, I made 
further enquiry and learnt from a Capt. Sickles who is an ass: Quarter 
Master at Albany, that the men amount to the number I have mentioned, 
that they are engaged to serve during the Campaign, at Six dollars per 
day, that they expected money on his return — that he has none, and that 
they will certainly Quit the service; I mentioned the Matter to the Com- 
mander in chief, who is exceedingly anxious to retain them and intreated 
me If possible to suggest the means: If there is no money in the Conti- 
nental Treasury I can devise no other way but that of drawing on the 
Treasury of the state of New York. If this is done, and there should be 
no money in that, I will Immediately give direction for borrowing as much 
of the money on my own Credit as can be procured, and become person- 
ally engaged for the remainder. As no time is to be lost permit me to In- 
treat the determination of Congress on the Subject and to be advised 
thereof.^ 

I have the honor to be with Sentiments of Great respect and Esteem 
Your Excellency's Most Obedient Humble Servant 

Ph. Schuyler 

187. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia 21st May 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Mr. Matthews has shewn you the powers of the committee which with 
great difficulty we have appointed. The oposition was exactly such as 1 
expected, and from the quarter I mentioned to you, and its effect delay 
and a diminution of the powers necessary to render the committee exten- 
sively useful.- I have laboured hard to bring about a recal of the Mary- 

^ See no. 206, post. 
[i86]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, vol. III., f. 523. 

- This letter was read in Congress May 24 and referred to the board of war. 
[187]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1257; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler 
Papers, no. 763 (copy). 

2 Although Livingston speaks here of the appointment of a committee, he is refer- 
ring to the increase of powers granted May 19 to the committee already sent to head- 
quarters. President Huntington wrote to Washington May 20 (no. 183, ante) of the 
increase of powers to the committee, but he did not transmit the text of the resolves. 



May, 1780 159 

land Line, but without success. To move it myself would have lost us 
the confidence of the Southern States and excited an oposition which 
would have efifectualy deprived us of the power of being useful upon other 
occasions. I endeavoured to prevail on Mr. Jones or Mr. Matthews to 
make the proposal, in which case we could have supported it with so much 
force as to have overborne all oposition. They were brought to wish it, 
but did not dare move it when it came to the point, so that all that we 
shall be able to do will be to direct them to return in case they hear the 
siege is raised before they arrive at Charlestown. I shall myself venture 
to move tomorrow for the return of Lees corps, the cavalry of which have 
not yet left this place.^ We have likewise appointed a committee to con- 
fer with the Minister on the procuring supplies for the French troops, and 
to obtain intelligence of the strength of the enemy at the several posts, 

and the soundings of the several bays, harbours, etc 

We have the most warm and pressing representations from our state 
relative to Ver Mont, and we expect hourly to have it brought on the 
carpet here * I shall write to IMr. Peabody to come down immediately, 
which he has promissed me he will do 

188. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 21st i\Iay, 1780. 
Sir, 

We are sorry to be obliged to inform your Excellency that, notwith- 
standing our efforts to bring the matter of the New Hampshire Grants 
to a decision, unavoidable obstructions have prevented it to this day. On 
the 2d of March last it was made an order of the day for the 7th. In that 
interval the new plan of Finance which had been before on the table was 
resumed, and we were with great reluctance compelled by the pressing 
instances of Congress to permit the order of the day to give way to the 
more general, and, as they insisted, more pressing business of Finance. 
By this means the order of the day was postponed from time to time till 
the 1 8th of March, when the plan of Finance was compleated. In this 
interval, Mr. Forbes a delegate from Maryland fell sick, soon after died, 
and that State became unrepresented. Georgia being also unrepresented, 
and New York, Massachusetts, and New Flampshire disqualified by the 
resolutions of the 24th of September, nine disinterested States were not 
represented in Congress. Notwithstanding this impediment we thought 
it right to shew our earnestness to prosecute to effect a business of so much 
importance to our State: and therefore on the 21st March moved to pro- 

This he enclosed in his letter of Alay 29 to the committee, explaining that he had not 
hitherto sent the resolves for the reason that he had supposed Mr. Mathews had taken 
a copy with him on his return to camp. As a matter of fact Mathews had done so, 
consequently the committee had a view of their new powers May 23 (see no 203, note 2, 
post). For further discussion of these powers see nos. 194, note 3, 197, 232, post. 
3 See nos. 196, 197, 224, post. 
* Cj. nos. 188, 196, post. 
[i88]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 116; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, 
v. 173 (draft, with variations). 



160 Continental Congress 

ceed to the order of the day ; but it was resolved " that the same be post- 
poned, nine States exclusive of those which are parties to the question not 
being represented in Congress "." In this condition the business has been 
suspended ; for though Georgia has been represented within three days, 
Delaware has been unrepresented for several weeks. However, to lose no 
opportunity of manifesting the solicitude which we felt, we, two days 
since, on the reading of your Excellency's letter of the 9th instant and 
some of the papers attending it, again moved to proceed to the order of the 
day; and the same objection of the want of a representation of nine 
disinterested States being urged, it was ordered " that the President 
write to the Executives of the States of Delaware and Maryland to urge 
them to send forward immediately and to keep up a representation in 
Congress as matters of the highest consequence are now before them ; " 
at the same time your Excellency's despatches of the 25th ult. were laid 
before Congress, and so much as related to the depredations of the Indians 
referred to a Committee.^ 

We propose to prevail upon Congress to come into some pointed reso- 
lutions to censure the Vermonters for their contempt of the authority and 
the recommendations of the only body who can preserve the peace of the 
confederacy. Something of this kind seems to be necessary to check the 
violence of our adversaries, and to comfort and encourage the peaceable 
citizens within the controverted jurisdiction. The nature and success of 
this measure we shall communicate to your Excellency by Major Hunt 
if he can be prevailed upon to wait the issue.* 

We feel, Sir, the utmost anxiety for our frontier fellow citizens. Noth- 
ing for their protection, which is within the power of the State, ought to 
be neglected : especially as we foresee that all the forces which can be 
raised under the authority of Congress will find full employment in the 
active and offensive campaign which is soon to open. The official com- 
munications from the President, on the bright prospect which is displayed 
by the promised cooperation of our great and generous ally, will fully 
explain to your Excellency what we have in contemplation.^ It would be 
highly improper for us to enter into any detail on a subject which requires 
secrecy as much as it does vigour and decision. A Committee of Congress 
residing at Head Quarters, of whom General Schuyler is Chairman, are 
authorized to correspond with the governments of the respective States, 
to direct and draw forth the necessary supplies, and to effectuate, as far 
as possible, the plan of operations. To that Committee your Excellency 
will be pleased to be referred.^ It gives us pleasure to be persuaded that 
our State by the wisdom, the liberality, and the promptitude of her 

• See the Journals, Mar. 21, and nos. 106, 108, 126, 127, 138, 187, ante. 

^ See the Journals, A'lay 17, and no. 181, ante. The draft to this point is in the 
writing of Scott, except the last three words, " to a Committee ", which Duane, who 
wrote the remainder of the letter, substituted for Scott's " to the Board of War ". The 
text used is, however, the copy in the Sparks A^SS., evidently made from the letter 
sent, which shows some rearrangement of the parts. 

^ See the Journals, May 22, 23, 26, 29, June 2, 9; cj. nos. 196, 204. 212, 218, 219, 
221, 2^2, 244, post. Major Hunt was probably Jonathan Hunt. See the Journals, May 
22 ; cf. no. 212, post. 

^ See no. 182, ante. 

^ See nos. 145, 166, 182, 187, ante, and nos. 196, 203, post. 



May, 1780 IGl 

measures, at this most critical and important conjuncture, will manifest 
to the world that she merits the freedom for which we contend, and the 
generous cooperation of our Ally to secure the blessing, by the total expul- 
sion of our enemies from this continent 

The great change which has taken place in the system of our finances 
calls for an alteration in the mode of supporting the Members of Con- 
gress. We never approved of drawing money from the Continental Trea- 
sury ; and only submitted to it because it had become a general practice ; 
and we were otherwise unprovided for. That appropriations should take 
place, on the application of an individual, for his own use, was equally 
improper with respect to the public, and degrading to ourselves. At pres- 
ent the Treasury here is quite exhausted, and we must request the favor of 
a regular supply in future, and more especially of a speedy remittance to 
discharge our debts which are become very burthensome, as, not foresee- 
ing this difficulty, we are entirely unprepared. To estimate the expense 
in nominal money might call into question our economy, in a State which 
has not yet reached the summit of extravagance which prevails in this 
City. Our board alone we shall mention as a specimen, being according 
to a late demand for a gentleman and his servant £270 cont'l per week, 
exclusive of even table beer. We imagine, however, that the value of six 
specie dollars a day with good management may be a decent allowance, 
exchange here between that and paper money being 60 for one. We ob- 
serve that the Delegates of our State were originally allowed four dollars 
a day, and the price of every article of expense to which we are now ex- 
posed is at least double. We are far from wishing to derive a profit from 
our public employment : on the contrary it would give us the highest satis- 
faction if the Legislature should think it expedient to provide a house 
and table for us, under the direction of a steward ; as in that case we 
should keep our hands clear of the public money, and be excused from 
the trouble of accounts. Let it not, however, be understood that we solicit 
this or any other particular mode of providing for our support; for we 
mean, with the utmost deference to submit it wholly to the Legislature. 
May we entreat the favor of your Excellency to communicate this letter, 
with our most respectful compliments, to that honorable body; and to be- 
Heve that we are — with the utmost respect and regard. Dear Sir, 
Your Excellency's most obedient and very humble servants, 

Jas. Duane. 

RoBT. R. Livingston. 

Jno. Morin Scott. 

189. Oliver Ellsworth to the President of the Pennsylvania 
Council (Joseph Reed).^ 

Sir, 

The Committee of Congress are ready to confer with the Committee 
of the Supreme Executive Council and Assembly of the Commonwealth 

[189]! Princeton Univ. Lib.; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 261. 



162 Continental Congress 

of Pennsylvania on the Subject of the enclosed Resolution at such Time 
and Place as they shall appoint " 

I have the honour to be, on behalf of the Comm'ee 

your Excellency's most obedt. and very hble servt. 

Oliv'r Ellsworth 
Monday Morn'g May 22, 1780. 

190. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of 
New Jersey (William Livingston)/ 

Philadelphia, May 22d, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... - Lest it should escape the recollection of the Legislature, I take 
the liberty to mention that the embargo act continued the 25th of Decem- 
ber last in consequence of a recommendation of Congress of the 15th of 
the same month was limited to the first of April last. The expected events 
of this campaign, the present state of provisions, the prospects of the 
coming crop, far from being so favorable as could be wished, all conspire 
to urge the propriety of reviving and continuing that act. The matter was 
lately agitated in Congress, but as no instance of exportation was known, 
except from Delaware, and it was said the embargo was in force in the 
other states, a resolution was extended no farther than Delaware. We 
did not mention New Jersey, because there was no doubt the Legislature 
on adverting to the circumstances above mentioned would take the neces- 
sary measures.^ 

The state of Pennsylvania has applied to Congress for direction with 
respect to the propriety of receiving the certificates given in the staff de- 
partments in the payment of taxes. As I see the highest probability the 
measure will be approved and recommended, I take the liberty to apprize 
the Legislature. I see no prospect of any other answer to the address and 

-The committee (Ellsworth, Houston, and Henry) was appointed May 20, on a 
matter pertaining to loan office certificates and certificates of the stafif departments. 
President Reed's undated note to Speaker Bayard {Pa. Arch., first ser., VHI. 262) may 
have reference to the resolve of May 20 and to this committee, but it more probably 
pertains to the committee of May 12 (see no. 162, note 4, ante). The council minutes 
(Pa. Col. Recs., XH. 360) show that the m.eeting was held this day (May 22), that they 
"also freely conferred on the subject of the Quarter Master and Commissaries' Certifi- 
cates ", and that after the conference the council took into consideration the resolves 
of May 19 and 20 and President Huntington's letter of the 19th, and ordered that these 
be laid before the general assembly. The committee of Congress made a report May 24. 
See, further, the Journals, May 26 ; cf. no. 102, note 2, ante. 

Ellsworth was on three successive committees instructed to confer with committees of 
the Pennsylvania council and asssembly, namely, one apppointed May 9 (Ellsworth, 
Muhlenberg, and Clark), one appointed May 12 (Ellsworth, Muhlenberg, and Houston), 
and this committee of May 20. 

[igojiA^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 216; N. J. State Lib.; Thomas Allen Glenn, William 
Churchill Houston, p. 57; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 349. 

- In the omitted passages Houston refers to the Massachusetts act (in a Boston 
paper of May 8) respecting the act of Congress of Mar. 18, and offers some suggestions 
for the guidance of his own state in taking measures in compliance with the act of 
Mar. 18. See nos. 290, 314, ffost. 

^See the Journals, May 22, June 12. The action of Congress was in consequence of 
a letter from President Reed May 6 (Pa. Arch., first ser., VIH. 229), read in Congress 
May 9. President Huntington's letter transmitting the act of May 22 is ibid., p. 263. 



May, 1780 163 

representation of the 15th of March last, and am of opinion that time 
need not be lost in waiting to hear from Congress. No means in the power 
of the delegates of the state have been omitted to obtain some other mode 
of discharging the debts due to the inhabitants, and avoiding the necessity 
of resorting to this expedient, but without efifect.* 

The proceedings of Saturday last you have ere now received. I doubt 
not the President has suggested the propriety of secresy, for though these 
things are noising abroad, they are surmises without information. I speak 
particularly of the contents of the letter. The occasion is highly interest- 
ing, and the improvement of it may be attended with the most happy 
consequences.^ 

191. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia May 23d 1780. 
Sir, 

A few days since, I was honored with yours of the ist instant directed 
to the delegates of Massachusetts, respecting regulating the post from 
Boston to Falmouth ; and as I have the honor of being upon the com- 
mittee of Congress for superintending the post office, my colleagues de- 
sired me to attend to your instructions and endeavour to have the altera- 
tions made agreeably to the directions of the Hon'ble court ; I immediately 
laid the matter before the committee, and they were of opinion that the 
post master General was fully empowered and could make the proposed 
alterations: I then wrote to the post master, a copy of which I inclose, 
and his answer, together with a letter from the surveyor of the eastern 
district ; by which you'll be able to judge whether the alterations proposed 
by the surveyor will answer the good purposes expected by the hon'l assem- 
bly^ ... . 

192. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

[May 23, 1780.] 
Dear S'r, 

Col. Grayson has mentioned to me his receiving a letter from Genl. 
VVeedon desiring to serve in the northern Army if any employm't can 
be carved out for him. This Gentleman for whom, as an Officer, I enter- 
tain a regard, has attributed the regulation of his Rank, wch. has occa- 
sioned his retiring, in great part to me; tho. God knows I did no more in 
the matter than was my Duty by moving in Congress that the dispute be 
ref'd to a Board of G. Officers. He has ever since his return kept himself 

* See the Journals, May 20, 24, 26, and nos. 198, 202, post. 

^ The reference is to the action taken upon the memorial of the minister of France. 
See no. 175, note 2, ante. 

[191]^ Mass. Arch., CCII. 199. 

2 See no. 178, ante. In a later letter to the council the same day Holten relates 
" intelligence from Charlestown, by a private person to the 5th inst." Mass. Arch., CCII. 
196. 

[192]! Library of Congress, Wa.shington Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), 
p. 9. 



164 Continental Congress 

aloof from me. abt. this I have no concern. I promised Col. Grayson I 
wo'd mention the proposal to you and had no doubt if a place could be 
found for him you wo'd call him into service, his only objection it seems 
is his serving under Woodford. If you shall find an opening for Genl. 
Weedon I believe it will be agreeable and convenient to him but I request 
it may not be known to him that I had any concern in the business ^ 

193. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada. May 24, 1780. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honour through you Sir to communicate to his most 
Christian Majesty, our illustrious Ally, the grateful Sense Congress enter- 
tain of his unremitted Attention to the Interest of these United States 
evidenced by his many great and generous Efforts in their Behalf ; as ex- 
pressed in their Act of the 22d Instant herewith enclosed. 

You will also herewith receive the Acts and Proceeding of Congress 
in Consequence of the Communication you were pleased to make on the 
i6th Instant, by which you will be the better informed of the Measures 
adopted for effectually co-operating with our Ally against the Common 
Enemy." 

Permit me Sir to express the Pleasure and Satisfaction which I have 
received from the active Zeal and Ardour which the Minister of France 
hath manifested on all Occasions, and especially the present, to promote 
the Interest, and aid the Exertions of these United States. 

194. The Committee at Headquarters to the Several States.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town May 25, 1780. 
Sir, 

Yesterday we were honord with a dispatch from Congress conveying 
to us their resolutions of the 19th Inst, together with a Copy of their cir- 
cular letter of the same date to the several states from New Ham[p] shire 
to Virginia inclusive.' By one of the former we are appointed to assist 
the Commander in Chief in drawing out supplies for the Army; and the 

- Concerning Weedon's case see vol. III., pp. 89, 147. He was again called into 
service June 16, on recommendation of the board of war. Washington's reply to Jones's 
letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 304, (ed. Sparks), VII. 67. For an extract from 
it see no. 264, note 3, post. Cf. no. 280, post. 

[193]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 4. 

- The minister's memorial dated May 16 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 683. 
translation) was read in Congress May 17. See also the Journals, May 18, 20, 22, and 
no. 175, ante. 

[194]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (copy); ibid., Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 39, vol. III., f. I, no. 39, vol. I., f. 39 (copy), no. 11, f. 49 (letter-book copy). This 
circular and likewise the supplementary one following were signed by the three mem- 
bers of the committee. They are to be found in numerous repositories. 

- The circular letter is no. 182, ante. 



May, 1780 165 

line of conduct we are to pursue is pointed out in those subsequent. The 
whole having been transmitted to your state together with the circular 
letter ; It is unnecessary to inclose your honour a Copy. Immediately on 
receipt of these papers we laid them before the Commander in Chief and 
intreated him to signify what supplies were immediately necessary to en- 
able him to move the Army; and to put it in a condition to co-operate 
vigorously with the shortly expected succour of the great and generous 
ally of these states. This request we candidly avow, was made more with 
a view to preserve form in conducting business, than for want of com- 
pleat information on the subject ; That having already been fully detailed 
us, by the General, and others in former conferences, when acting as a 
committee of arrangements, he consequently had only to refer us to what 
had been before delivered us by him and others, and which was in sub- 
stance as follows. That the Army was five months pay in arrears, that it 
has Seldom or ever, since it took this cantonement, had more than Six 
days provision in advance. That at present it is without meat, and has 
been on half, and on quarter allowance for some days past. That the com- 
missaries cannot give any assurances of doing more than bearly subsisting 
the Troops from day to day. That even then they apprehend a want of 
meat will frequently prevail ; That the Army is greatly deficient in Camp 
Equipage. That it is destitute of forage for the few horses which indis- 
pensible necessity has required, should be maintained in Camp.^ That it 
will require several Thousand horses to move the Army so as to promise 
any effectual operation from it. That the Sick in Hospitals have not a 
sufficiency of those articles necessary for their comfort. That carriages 
in considerable numbers are wanted. That the Quarter Master General 

3 Besides endeavoring to solve the larger problems of supply, the committee 
appear to have given some attention also to lesser matters in the same province. On the 
same day on which this circular was sent out the committee wrote to the commissary 
general of forage : " Having inspected some choped Oats this day, brought up for the 
use of the horses of the Army, we find it of an exceeding bad quality, and this method 
of preparing it for use liable to very great abuses. We therefore desire you will imme- 
diately give orders, for having this article brought forward in the grain for consump- 
tion, and no more of it to be choped." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 99, no. ir, 
p. 287 (copies). 

June 15 the following letter was addressed " To the Forage Master General or his 
Asst't at Camp " : " Having already given you directions to Issue orders to those per- 
sons employed in procuring forage for the use of the Army, not to have any more grain 
choped for that purpose ; and finding that it still continues to be sent on to the xA.rmy in 
that state — We therefore think it necessary to forbid your receiving any forage of that 
kind in future." Ibid., no. 39, vol. II., f. 100, no. 11, p. 288. 

Schuyler wrote to Governor Clinton May 26: "Should the State agreable to General 
Washington's request compleat the regiments to 504, I conceive it will suffice instead of a 
new draft, to Convert the 800 men now raising to that purpose, tho probably the Situa- 
tion of affairs will require they should remain to the Northward. If so, I would advise 
the State to inform the general of it, as I shall be on the Spot and will try to remove 
any difficulty which might arise." Clinton Papers. V. 758. 

Lafayette, who was at this time at headquarters, wrote to Luzerne concerning the 
committee : " Le Comite n'est pas content de ses pouvoirs ; ils disent qu'ils ne peuvent 
que recommander, et a moins de prendre sur eux tous les risques ils ne sont pas en etat 
de mettre en activite les ressources du pais. Le Congres doit recevoir de leur Com- 
mitte les plus fortes representations a cet egard ; mais pour ne pas perdre de tems, ils 
ont ecrit une lettre aux differents etats dont nous avons besoin, et cette lettre doit, 
disent-ils, produire de bons effets." Am. Hist. Rev.. XX. 346. Concerning the com- 
mittee's powers see nos. 166, 183, 187, ante, iq6, 203, 232, post. 



166 Continental Congress 

has not a competent number of boats for the use of the Army in case any 
offensive operation should take place. That he has no materials for con- 
structing new boats and Carriages, nor even repairing the old. That as 
every department of the Army is without money, and not even the shadow 
of Credit left, consequently no article however necessary can be procured. 
That the Transportation even of the inadequate supply of flour, forage, 
and other articles hitherto furnished by the states is at a stand. That very 
few of the recruits required by the act of Congress of the 9th of February 
last have arrived. That from information received there is no prospect 
that any considerable number will timely engage in the service on Volen- 
tary inlistm'ts. That by the expiration of the terms for which men were 
engaged. Deaths and Desertions, the army is so greatly reduced that it 
does not afford a probable prospect of its acting with any degree of effi- 
cacy in merely defensive operations. That the patience of the soldiery 
who have endured every degree of conceivable hardship, and borne it with 
fortitude and perseverence, beyond the expectation of the most sanguine, 
is on the point of being exhausted. That a spirit of discontent is encour- 
aged by the arts of the enemy, whose emissaries hold up in printed papers 
distributed among the soldiery the most flattering prospects and promises 
to induce them to desert their colours. The evidence given us in support 
of this detail of facts has been fully corroborated by our own observations 
and enquiry. And painful as the contemplation of the distresses our coun- 
try labours under may be, we conceive it would have been inconsistant 
with our duty to have palliated or disguised them in an address to the 
constituents of that body under whose authority we act, as they ought, 
in our opinion, to be fully informed. For it is to them this committee is 
directed to apply, and on them every reliance for relief and assistance must 
rest, in this very critical and important moment. But so far are we from 
disponding under this variety of embarrassment that we reflect with sat- 
isfaction — the result of conviction — That the country is not destitute of 
the resources necessary to enable its army to act with vigor and to second 
the views of our illustrious Ally, and that the Legislative and executive 
Powers of your state, impressed as they are with a just sense of the mag- 
nitude of the object, are equally desirous as capable of drawing them forth. 

Congress in their circular letter has pointed generally at the measures 
necessary to be adopted by the states. We conceive it incumbent on us, in 
discharge of the trust reposed, to point more minutely at particulars and 
in some measure to enter into a detail of them. We are encouraged to this 
under a persuasion that the states will impute to our Zeal and affection 
for the interest and weal of our country the Liberty we take, and not to a 
spirit of dictating, which would be equally improper as presumptions. 

In a letter we had the honor to address Congress on the i6th Inst, but 
which had not reach'd Philadelphia when the Circular letter and resolu- 
tions we have alluded to were passed, We stated the little probability 
(which from the information we had obtained) there appeared to be of 
compleating the Quotas of men called for by the act of Congress of the 
9th of February last, by voluntary inlistment, and we conceived it requi- 



May, 1780 167 

site to proprose a set of resolutions calculated to draw forth the intended 
complement of men for the Army together with a state of the deficiency's, 
Copy of which we have the honor to inclose — persuaded that the states 
can with more facillity and much less expence make drafts to serve during 
the Campaign than to engage men to serve during the War, and convinced 
from repeated experience that no reliance is to be made on gaining a suffi- 
cient number by Volentary inlistments. should the mode we have pro- 
posed be as agreable to the sentiments of the Legislature of your state as 
it is to those of the Commander in Chief, we cannot entertain a doubt but 
that the measures will be adopted with alacrity and executed with energy. 
From the state we have made of the distressed condition of the Army in 
point of provision, We are persuaded that every argument to induce the 
utmost exertions to fill the magazines which the Commander in Chief has 
directed to be formed would be needless, as a matter of such importance 
will certainly claim the most immediate attention of the Legislative and 
executive powers of the states. 

Congress in their act of the 25th Feby. last have not call'd on the states 
for the Transportation of any of the articles of supply innumerated in 
that act, beyond the limits of the state furnishing the same. If the Officers 
whose business it is to direct the Transportation were or could be fur- 
nished in time with money for that service it would probably superceed the 
necessity of any intervention of the states, as they are not, nor is it prob- 
able they can he even with the best exertions of the states, we humbly 
recommend that authority be given by your Legislature to the executive 
authority or to such other persons as they may think proper, to furnish 
such carriage to the Officers acting under the authority of Congress or 
their committee, as may be needfull to convey these supplies, or any other 
for the public use, to the Army or to such Posts and places where they 
may be required, and that untill the public Officers shall have Cash in 
hand to pay for the same. We intreat the Legislature of your state to give 
assurances to its Citizens that speedy and effectual measures will be taken 
to make payment of the Debts which may be thus incurred, and remain 
unpaid, with an interest of six per Cent. Per annum, as stated in the reso- 
lutions of Congress of the 19th Instant. 

It is more than probable necessity will require that some states should 
be called upon for additional supplies, to those apportioned to them in the 
Act of Congress of the 25th Feby. last. Both because our Army, and that 
of our Ally, may take such a position as that supplies from remote states 
cannot be brought, and because some states are so exhausted that they 
cannot even furnish the Quotas assigned them. It therefore becomes essen- 
tial that similar powers to those states in the preceeding paragraph should 
be lodged in the Executive authority, or other persons, for furnishing such 
extra supplies, on the application of this committee or Officers appointed 
for that purpose — and to this matter we also intreat permission to draw 
the attention of your Legislature. As it would be hazarding too much to 
depend on the precarious supply of Horses and Carriages which might be 
furnished by the inhabitants occasionally to move the Artillery, Baggage, 
and stores immediately attach'd to the army, and as the aid of the states 



168 Continental Congress 

to procure the horses and carriages in the present exhausted state of the 
public Treasury is evidently necessary, we are also constrained to entreat 
the attention of your Legislature to this capital object, and to request that 
the executive authority, or other persons, may be impowered to comply 
with the requisition of this committee or persons by them authorized for 
that purpose, on the condition mention'd in the paragraph next preceeding 
the Last. 

Having Sir, Stated the most material articles of the many which are 
wanted, we beg leave to urge the indispensible Necessity of investing your 
executive authority, or such other persons as your Legislature may judge 
proper to instruct, with ample power to comply with the requisitions of 
the Committee, or other persons by them appointed, for that variety of 
articles necessary for an Army and its appendages, and of which no per- 
fect ennumeration can be made, And to rely for reimbursement out of 
the monies calld for from the states. Had it been practicable to have 
stated the particular extra supplies which necessity will induce us to call 
for from each state, for the support of the army and its operations, it 
would have been our duty to have done so. As it was not. we wish your 
Legislature to believe that the Committee will pay every possible attention 
in making requisitions for supplies so as to render the burden as equal in 
proportion to the ability of each State as their situation, and the nature 
of the service will by any means admit. 

It is possible Sir, that should even the deficiency's to compleat the 
Quotas of troops apportioned to the states in Feby. last Join their Corps 
as early as the exigency of affairs certainly require. Aid of Militia may 
nevertheless be call'd for by the Commander in Chief, and as so much 
depends on dispatch in offensive operations, we beg leave most earnestly 
to recommend that such measures may be adopted as will effectually draw 
forth this invaluable resource with as little delay as possible. 

Having stated what appears, to the Committee, absolutely requisite to 
be adopted and pursued by the state. Permit us Sir to add, we are author- 
ized to communicate, that the Naval and Land force alluded to by Con- 
gress in their Circular Letter was to have saild so early from france that 
they may be daily expected to arrive on this coast. That the orders given 
by the Court of Versailles for the Line of Conduct to be observed by their 
officers in combining their force with ours to operate against the Common 
Enemy, clearly evince the most unbounded confidence, and the most un- 
equivocal determination That it should be directed by American Councils, 
and rendered subservient to the interest of these states. This generosity 
on the part of our illustrious Ally strongly points at the necessity of tak- 
ing every precaution in our power that his views may not be frustrated, 
nor his Arms disgraced. Indeed we should be left without the shadow of 
an excuse, should we through inattention, or indecision, neglect to avail 
ourselves of the advantages to which such a capital succour is capable of 
being improved. We should degrade our Charractor, disgrace our Arms, 
and evince to all the world that we were either destitute of resources, 
wanted exertion to draw them forth, or wisdom to apply them, and either 
would tend to discredit our Cause, and stamp these states with indeliable 



May, lySo 169 

stains of infamy. But Americans are incapable of such folly. They will 
see the necessity of risking possible evils, nay even suffering certain, but 
Temporary ones with fortitude. And of sacrificing a portion of property, 
if such sacrifice is necessary, rather than by withholding it, involve them- 
selves and their posterity in misery too painfull to be contemplated with- 
out the deepest anxiety. 

You Sir, and the Legislature of your state, we are fully convinced, will 
on this occasion display with additional Lustre, that Virtue and wisdom 
which have hitherto so emminently distinguished Your Councils, and by 
taking the lead in exertion, will stimulate your citizens to such laudable 
acts as will amply entitle them to the invaluable Blessings of that Liberty, 
peace and Independance for which they have fought and bled. 

The Committee have only to add their wishes that you Sir, will be 
pleased to convene the Legislature of the state with as much dispatch as 
possible, and to lay these our applications before them. 

Circular No. i 

r Following this letter, in the Letter-Book, is this memorandum:] 
" * Note, ' Your Excellency ' is the stile made use of in the circulars, to 
all the states, except Massachusetts and Xew Hampshire, whose presidents 
were addressed ' your honor '.'' 

195. The Committee at Headquarters to the Several States.^ 

Circular Xo. 2. t r- r- 

In Committee of Congress 

c,. Morris Town ]Mav 2^ 1780. 

Sir, ' ^ ' 

Since we had the honor to address our letter of this day. His Excel- 
lency the Commander in Chief has favourd us with one. Copy whereof 
is Inclosed.' 

Had the necessity of Compleating the Regiments to the Complement he 
states appeared to us as Indispensible before, as it hath done since the 
receipt of this Letter, we should not have hesitated a moment in recom- 
mending the measure, being perfectly persuaded of its propriety.^ 

196. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

r. ^. Philadelphia 26th May 1780. 

Dear bixr, 

I wrote to you by the Marquiss to which Letter I have not been favoured 

with your answer. Since the departure of Mr. Matthews nothing material 

[195P Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. 
III., f. 21, no. 39, vol. I., f. 48 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 5 (letter-book copy). 

2 Washington's letter to the committee May 25 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 
284, (ed. Sparks), VII. 50; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 267; Clinton Papers. V. 755; 
R. I. State Recs., IX. 75: -V. /. Rev. Corr.. p. 228. See also Washington to Governor 
Trumbull May 26, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth sen, X. 165. 

3 This text is endorsed, " True copy Ab. Brasher Secy ". Brasher does not how- 
ever appear to have been formally appointed secretary until Tune i. See no. 208, note 2, 
post. 

[196]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1258; ibid.. Bancroft Coll.. Schuyler 
Papers, no. 775. 



170 Continental Congress 

has been transacted relative to the grand business tho' a committee of 
which I am chairman has made a report thereon which lays on the table." 
I moved to recall Lees corps but was under the necessity of withdrawing 
my motion or disgusting all our friends, since (as I expected) the eastern 
people in order to regain their confidence opposed the motion. I am happy 
that the Genl. has determined upon it since the strongest argument against 
the measure was the Generals not having recommended it. So that much 
as he may desire it, it will be impossible to recall the Maryland line except 
the Genl. shall himself undertake it which I now fear it will be too late 
to do.' .... 

We have made several attempts to bring on the business of Vermont 
without success,* and what will surprize you is that New Hampshire has 
always voted against us. He ^ tells me that Mr. Livermore has taken away 
their papers, tho' the report we have got upon the subject by no means 
renders them necessary, and Pray mention this to Mr. Peabody and press 
upon him the necessity of returning unless he means to have the vote of 
the state entered upon the journals of Congress against its essential inter- 
ests, if he supposes they have any in this controversy 

197. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 26 May, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The progress hitherto made in Congress falls vastly short of 
your views and my efforts, but it is the fate of deliberate bodies to move 
with caution ; and I have no manner of doubt that we shall be under some 
disadvantages on that account ; at the same time that I am persuaded every 
measure which the General thinks necessary will be supported (on his own 
application) by Congress with unanimity. Mr. Alatthews will be able to 
inform you of the obstacles to a committee plenipo. as I have hinted them 
to the General : they are deep rooted in the human passions, and not to be 
surmounted on the first impression." That the reinforcements ordered 
to the southward should be re-called, is obvious for the reasons you as- 

- Livingston was chairman of the committee on the memorial from the minister 
of France, presented May 17, and it was this committee to whom was referred the report 
of May 15 from the committee sent to headquarters, laid before Congress the same day 
(see nos. 166, 167, ante). The report to which Livingston refers was brought in May 26 
and action taken upon it May 27. A text of the report, signed by Livingston and bear- 
ing the date May 24, is found in Wharton, Rcr. Dipt. Corr., IIL 699. See nos. 201, 216, 
post. 

3 See no. 187, ante, and no. 197. post. Washington had already (May 20) ordered 
the halt of Lee's corps. Nevertheless on June 6 Congress all but countermanded that 
order. See no. 224, post. 

* See no. 188, note 4, ante, and the Journals, May 22, 2;^, 26, 29. 

5 That is, Nathaniel Folsom, who was the only delegate from New Hampshire in 
Congress at this time. Peabody was with Schuyler at headquarters. 

[i97]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 216 (clipped from 
undesignated newspaper). 

2 See no. 187, note 2, ante. The following extract from a letter of General Greene 
to Washington May 23 is particularly pertinent here: 

" Sir I have had a long conversation with General Schuyler this morning, and have 
seen the powers and appointments upon the present business entrusted to the direction 
of the Committee, as well as their powers to act under. From all which I am fully of 
opinion that the plan is altogether incompetent to the purpose and end proposed. Time 
will not permit me to enter into the detail of objections, nor perhaps would their force 



May, 1780 171 

sign; but do you expect such a proposition from a Northern member 
deeply interested in strengthning the main army? It is a question of the 
utmost deHcacy and even danger: for, however groundlessly, an opinion 
has been propagated that Congress meant to sacrifice the two Southern 
States, and it has been productive of great animosity and discontent. We 
have privately stated the subject to some of the Southern gent, who, 
though I believe convinced of the propriety of the measure, did not chuse, 
after great deliberation, to have it adopted, much less to propose it. There 
is but one person ^ from whom it can originate with prospect of success. 
If zve had undertaken it, nothing would have resulted from it but the loss 
of personal confidence and disappointment. But while you have Mr. 
Matthews at your elbow, who is fully informed, I only waste your time 
by descending to particulars.* .... 

appear in the same point of light to another, who has had less experience in the difficul- 
ties attending the business than I have. 

" It is my opinion that your Excellency ought to ask the decided opinion of the Com- 
mittee in writing, whether they think their powers are competent to the business expected 
of them. If they say not, as I am sure they must, then I would require of them the 
powers and the plan they conceive necessary to support the enterprize. The whole of 
which I would state to Congress, supported with my own sentiments, as well with respect 
to the defects of the present plan, as the plan necessary for the business. Nothing but 
some such d_ecisive measure as this, will put the business on a proper footing. The 
measure will at least place your conduct in the fairest point of light. It will free the 
Committee from their present embarrassments, and place the labouring oar where it ought 
to be. If you undertake the business upon the present footing, and exercise powers beyond 
the present Scheme, It will be asked why you did not ask for an enlargement of the 
Committees powers, if you deemed them inadequate. And if you engage and fail for 
want of support, it will be asked why you embarked in such a business without being 
fully persuaded that the means were adequate to the end. In whatever point of view 
I consider the subject, I see the greatest propriety in your Excellency stating to the 
Committee this query, whether it is their opinion, they can give you such support, as will 
warrant your engaging in a cooperation with the French forces for the reduction of 
New York." Library of Congress, Washington Papers ; Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, 
II. 453 ; Greene, Life of Greene, II. 294. 

The new powers of the committee to which Greene refers ("resolutions of May 19) had 
been brought to headquarters that day by John Mathews, just returned from Congress. 
See no. 203, note 2, post. 

May 24 Washington wrote to the committee as follows : " I have considered the 
powers vested in you by the resolution of Congress of the 19th Instant. The importance 
of taking every step on the surest ground induces me to request your opinion of the 
competency of these powers to the objects they are intended to answer — and whether 
you think they will enable you as far as is practicable in our circumstances, to draw 
forth the resources of the Country. If you should be of opinion they are not, I intreat 
you will have the goodness to point out in what they appear to you to be defective — and 
what alterations or additions may be necessary to render them as far as possible ade- 
quate to the emergency." The original of this letter has not been found. There is a draft 
in the writing of Alexander Hamilton in the Washington Papers, but the date of the 
resolution, " 19th Instant ", is left blank. The text used here is that of the copy in the 
committee's letter-book. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 208. 

No response from the committee is found of record, either in their letter-book or else- 
where ; therefore, in view of the probability that no larger powers could be obtained 
(see the remarks of Duane in the early part of his letter to Schuyler; also nos. 166, 
187, 104, note 3, ante), they must have decided to act on such powers as had been bestowed 
on them. At all events, on the following day (May 25), with Washington's approval, they 
sent out their circular letter to the states. Cf. no. 232, post. 

3 That is. General Washington. See no. 196, ante. Cf. the extract of a letter from 
Luzerne to Vergennes June 24, in Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks), VII. 92 n. 

* On the same day Duane wrote to Washington giving him the latest news from 
Charleston. "If under such discouraging Prospects", he said, "we shall come of[f] 
Conquerors it will be a further proof of one of the Mottoes which we have appropriated 
to our Cause and often seen verified — nil despera>idnni." Library of Congress. Washing- 
ton Papers. 



172 Continental Congress 

198. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of 
New Jersey (William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, 26th May, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your excellency receives enclosed resolutions of Congress of this date, 
on the subject of negotiating in the payment of taxes, the outstanding 
vouchers given of persons employed in the departments of the Commis- 
sary General of purchases and Quarter Master General for articles fur- 
nished to the public service. It is to be regretted that this provision is not 
more adequate to the relief of New Jersey, and a fuller satisfaction of 
the address of the Legislature of the 17th of March last.^ I will endeavour 
to give an account of the state of this proceeding. 

The states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware are 
those in which such notes or certificates are principally [in] hand. New 
York has some time since passed an act for receiving them in taxes, imder 
certain modifications and conditions which I need not describe as I took 
the liberty to transmit a copy to the legislature at the last sitting. No 
measures have been taken respecting them in any of the other states that 
I have heard. It has from time to time been represented that the taxes 
could not be collected for the last year, and much less for the present, 
because payment of arrears due to the inhabitants from the public depart- 
ments was not made, by means [of] which many were unable to answer 
the collectors ; and those who were able, but unwilling took advantage of 
the pretext. 

The consistency of these resolutions with the proceedings of the 17th 
of March last was held a point of indispensible necessity. Nothing which 
has the color of an interference could be carried in Congress, but in cases 
of the last extremity. The taxes of two months are there appropriated to 
discharge outstanding debts, and I believe they are pretty competent to this 
end, even exclusive of other deficiencies not yet paid up or drawn for. If 
therefore one State takes in more Certificates than the quota thereof to 
the 1st of March last, the surplus must be paid to such state in cash from 
another state which takes in less or perhaps none ; or from some other 
fund, so that the public measures may prove in conformity with one an- 
other, and it is to be remarked by the way, that though the present mode 
is one attempt to pay ofif the public debts, it ought not to be looked upon 
as the only means, for those which are not satisfied in this way must be 
paid in money. 

It seemed absolutely necessary that these notes or certificates, as the 
provision extends both to the manuscript and printed should be received 
only from the persons to whom they were originally given, because the 
destructive inconveniences of their circulating as cash and being open to 
frauds, impositions and abuses of many kinds were to be obviated. The 
same caution suggested the propriety of the oath or affirmation. I must 
however observe here, that if the legislature find they have, in general, 

[198]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks AISS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 160. 

" The New Jersey address here referred to was actually dated Mar. 15, but was 
transmitted by Governor Livingston Mar. 17, and was presented to Congress Mar. 21. 



May, lySo 173 

passed from the first holders, and that the transaction ought to be coun- 
tenanced as far as it has proceeded, it is not impracticable to give the trans- 
ferees an opportunity to pay them in, under the oath or affirmation of 
those named in the certificates, which might not be attended with bad 
eff^ects, if confined to transfers already made.^ .... 

199. Samuel Huntington to the Marquis de Bouille/ 

^. Philada. May 27. 1780. 

Sir, 

I am honoured with your Letter of the 23d of March by Mr. Bingham. 

It gives me Pleasure to find that the Conduct of that Gentleman hath 
made himself agreeable to the French Nation and more especially that it 
meets with your Approbation. 

By the Information I have received from Mr. Bingham and Captain 
Harding of the Confederacy, I cannot but acknowledge your favourable 
Interposition and Aid manifested to Captain Harding and the ready As- 
sistance granted him in repairing the Frigate 

^^'e have just received Intelligence via St Kitts, there hath been an 
Engagement between the French and British Fleets in the West Indies, 
we are anxious to hear the particulars ; it is said several British Officers 
were by Admiral Rodney put under Arrest for Misconduct in the Engage- 
ment, which gives us reason to hope the French Fleet gained an Advan- 
tage in the Action. 

I have the Pleasure to inform you, that the Chevalier de la Luzerne the 
Minister of France is in good Health and much respected with us. I the 
rather mention this because Rivington the British Printer in New York 
hath lately published an Account that the People here were highly dis- 
gusted with him, which occasioned the iMinister to repair to General Wash- 
ington's Camp where he died by the Hand of Violence ; than which noth- 
ing could be more false and scandalous and might give concern to the 
Ministers Friends if not detected. 

I have the honour to be etc., etc., etc. 

S. H.^ 

200. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress 
<.. Morris Town May 28th 1780. 

We do ourselves the honor to inclose your Exc'y a Copy of our cir- 
cular letter to the states. Of one from the Commander in Chief to us on 

^ Houston was a member of the committee which reported the measure of May 26, 
and himself prepared the report. See the Journals, May 20, 24, 26, also nos. 102, note 2, 
190, mUe, and no. 202, post. 

[ 199] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 6 (addressed, " Le Marquis de 
Bouille, Governor General of the French West India Islands, etc."). 

- A marginial note reads, " This is not an Official Letter and recorded through 
Mistake". The Marquis de Bouille's letter of Mar. 23 was read in Congress May i, but 
no action was taken upon it. For that reason doubtless Huntington regarded his reply 
as unofficial. 

[2oo]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 2(> ('" writing of 
Mathews), no. 11, p. 25; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 145. 



174 Continental Congress 

the subject of the former, Of our second circular letter, And an abstract 
of the returns alluded to in the first. ^ Alarming and numerous as the facts 
stated in those letters are, we most sincerely wish they were not, in reallity 
heightened, and increased since. 

In our letter of the 9th Inst, to Congress,^ we observed, That if the 
spirit of discontent, which then prevailed among the soldiery, should fully 
established [sic^ itself, It would be productive of the most serious conse- 
quences. The causes which contributed to the first rise of dissatisfaction 
continuing, have increased, and ripened it into mutiny. Two entire regi- 
ments of the Connecticut line paraded on Thursday Evening with their 
arms, accoutrements, and packs, intending to march off, and return to the 
state. They complained of inability any longer to endure the torture of 
famine, and the variety of distress they experienc'd. On this serious occa- 
sion the Officers displayed a wisdom and prudence which does them honor. 
Their exertions reduced the disorder to bounds of moderation, and the 
soldiery were prevailed on to desist from intentions so injurious to their 
Country, so derogatory to their honour. They retired to their huts with 
passions cooled down indeed, but with evident signs of discontent and 
Chagrin, and left their Officers with the painful reflection that a repeti- 
tion of similar distresses was only wanting to compleat a scene which 
they cannot contemplate without horror. The brave. Patriotic, and vir- 
tuous band of Officers in every line had already given up their rations to 
the soldiers, and submitted literally to bread and Water, as their only 
sustenance. By this scanty fare they continue to set an example to, and 
keep the soldiery in tolerable temper. But with tears in their eyes (such 
as men who feel for the distresses of their Country may shed without 
pusillanimity) they stated their apprehensions that the dissolution of the 
army was at hand, unless constant supplies of provisions at least were 
kept up.^ 

Persuaded, sir, that to be silent on such occasions would be criminal, 
We will address our Compeers with decency, but with Freedom. We will 
advise them, that something more is necessary than mere recommendation, 

- The enclosures, besides the abstract of returns, were the circulars of May 25 
(nos. 194, 195, ante) and Washington's letter to the committee May 25 {Writings, ed. 
Ford, VIII. 284, ed. Sparks, VII. 50). The letter was read in Congress May 31. See no. 
206, post. Cf. Washington to Reed, May 28 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 293, ed. Sparks, 
VII. 58; Life of Reed, II. 202). Reed's reply, Jfune 5. is ibid., p. 209, and Letters to Wash- 
ington (ed. Sparks), II. 463. Lafayette, with knowledge of Washington's letter to Reed, 
addressed the latter in a like appeal May 31 (Life of Reed, II. 207; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 746). See, further, nos. 241, 261, 313, post; also a letter from Samuel Adams 
to Lafayette (dated "Boston, June 1780", Writings, IV. 197), in reply to a letter from 
Lafayette of May 30. 

^ The letter sent was dated May 10 (no. 162, ante). 

* See Washington to the President of Congress May 27 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 
288, ed. Sparks, VII. 54) ; also Schuyler to Clinton May 26 (Clinton Papers, V. 759). 
Schuyler wrote to Clinton May 28 respecting Clinton's letter of May 25 and the con- 
ference with Washington thereupon, adding: "Altho engaged with little relaxation in 
the arduous task assigned the Committee of which I am one, I hope so to arrange 
matters as to be in a condition to commence a journey to Kingston in two or three days, 
to give that Information to the legislature which it is my duty to afford them as a 
servant of the state in Congress, and to Contribute every aid in my power in the 
present distresses of a country so dear to me" (ibid., p. 767). See no. 168, note 4, ante. 



May, 1780 175 

or they will lose an army, and thereby risk the loss of an Empire. Times 
and exigencies render it sometimes necessary for the Governing powers 
to deviate from the strict lines of conduct which Regular Constitutions 
prescribe. And when such deviation is necessary for the preservation of 
the whole, It is incumbent on Rulers to put themselves on the Judgment 
of their Country, to stand acquitted or condemned by it. Such times, such 
exigencies, such deviations have heretofore taken place. They are marked 
on the Journals of Congress. And the honest Patriots reflect, with grati- 
tude, that there were men who at all hazards dared to save their Country. 
We intreat Congress seriously to consider Whether such times and exi- 
gencies do not now exist. If they do, shall Posterity say, that those who 
directed the affairs of America, at this era, were less intripid, more atten- 
tive to personal consequences than their Predicessors. Heaven forbid the 
thought! Our affairs it is true, are alarmingly deranged, but bold and 
decisive measures adopted, and prudently executed will restore all. Our 
pristine vigour will be renewed, and the contest end in a glorious expulsion 
of the minions of a Tyrant. 

We have the honor to be with the greatest respect 

Yr. Exc'ys most obed. Sevts. 

Ph. Schuyler 
Jno. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody 

201. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 29, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honoured with your Letter of the 19th Instant covering 
duplicate Despatches for Governor Rutledge, one of which I sent forward 
by Express the same Hour it came to hand, and sent the other by the 
Post 

I have also enclosed ~ a Copy of the Communication received from the 
Minister of France of the i6th Instant, which should have accompanied 
my former Despatches with the Acts of Congress of the 17th and 20th 
Instant, of which last mentioned Acts I have also enclosed Copies, there 
being an Error committed by the Secretary in the former Copy, which 
you will please to note, in the Act of the 20th, The Committee at Head 
Quarters are said to be requested to confer with the Minister of France, 
on the means of supplying the Forces of his most Christian Majesty, 
whereas it should be, the Committee zvho brought in the Report as ex- 
pressed in the Copy enclosed.^ .... 

[201 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 9. 
- An omitted paragraph mentions enclosing the resolve of May 26, leaving to 
Washington's discretion the matter respecting an agent or commissary of prisoners. 
3 See nos. 183, 196, ante, and nos. 203, 216, post. 
16 



176 Continental Congress 

202. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

Philadelphia May 29, 1780. 
Circular 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two Acts of Congress of 
the 26th and 27th Instant.^ .... 

It is hoped this mode may prove beneficial in those States where con- 
siderable Debts are due under the Circumstances above mentioned, and in 
those States only can the Act be properly applied.^ .... 

203. The President of Congress to the Committee at 

Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia May 29, 1780, 
Gentlemen, 

You will receive herewith enclosed three Acts of Congress, of the 19th, 
26th and 27th Instant, by which you will be informed among other Mat- 
ters, of the Measures adopted by Congress to obtain the necessary Sup- 
plies for the Army; as also to aid and assist our Ally in obtaining such 
Supplies as they may need, and to facilitate the Cooperation of such com- 
bined Forces as may be engaged in the approaching Campaign. 

The Act of the i6th [19th] would have been forwarded at an earlier 
Period for your Information and Direction had I not understood that 
the Hon'ble Mr. Mathews was possessed of it before he left the City. 

We are yet kept in anxious Suspense respecting Charles Town. 

The Hon'ble The Committee at Head Quarters.^ 

204. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia, May 30, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... The state of N. York are desirous that Congress should come 
into farther negotiations, respecting the people stiling themselves the state 

[202]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 39; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 8 ; Mass. Arch., CCI. 220 ; Collection of the late D. McN. Stauflfer (to Pennsyl- 
vania) ; R. I. Recs., IX. 112; Clinton Papers, V. 772; Fa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 277; 
Arch, of Md., XLIII. 507. 

2 Huntington here characterizes the act of May 26 respecting the collection of 
debts due the inhabitants from the quartermaster and commissary departments. What he 
next says concerning the mode applies to this act. Cj. no. 198, ante. 

3 He next summarizes the resolutions of May 27 respecting the equipment of 
the naval force of the United States and the prevention of desertion from the allied 
fleet. Cf. no. 220, post. 

[203] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 109. no. 11, p. 12; 
ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 10. 

2 The letter is endorsed : " No. 3 — for Entry with the papers alluded to. Make a 
Note at the bottom of the act of the 19th that a copy of if was received by the Committee 
on the 23d by the hands of Mr. Mathews." See nos. 166, 183, 187, 194, 197, ante, 232, 
post. 

[204]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 223. 



May, i/So 177 

of A^ermont; I must feel that very disagreeable consequences will take 
place before this unhappy dispute is settled : But I should continue to 
spare no pains to prevent, what I apprehend we are in great danger of. a 
war with that people." 

The Acct. of the hon'ble assembly for carrying into effect the resolu- 
tions of Congress of the i8th of march last, came here in the newspapers 
about ten days since, but neither Congress nor the Delegates from Massa- 
chusetts have officially received it. yet as I had one that came to hand yes- 
terday (inclosed in a letter from the secretary) we tho't proper to lay it 
before Congress, and it appears to be satisfactory, and was referred to the 
board of Treasury.^ 

205. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 30th May 1780. 
My dear General, 

Congress are much affected at the Wants and Distresses of the Army 
another Committee is appointed on your Excellencys late Representation 
to the Board of War, and a Letter from Comm'y Blane." It is now found 
that the Supplies already demanded from the states are incompetent and 
in some Instances anticipated. It is to be lamented that we were not fur- 
nished with better Estimates at first; but we must endeavour to correct 
the Error ; and to face every Difficulty with firmness ; and to remedy it as 
speedily and effectively as possible 

206. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia May 31, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

I am honoured with your Letter of the 28th Instant with the Despatches 
to which it refers, and have laid them before Congress this Day. The 
several Letters to the States of Delaware, Maryland and Virginia were 
immediately forwarded by Express.^ 

Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 30th Instant, by 
which you will be informed, they have determined that it is not expedient 
at present to make any partial Reduction in the Army. 

2 See no. 188, note 4, ante, and nos. 218, 219, 221, 244, 253, post. 

^ See the Journals, May 29; cf. no. 154, ante. 
[205]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The committee was appointed May 29 on letters from the board of war. Wash- 
ington wrote to the board of war May 27 concerning the distress of the army for meat, 
mentioning- also the mutiny of two Connecticut regiments. A letter of similar purport 
to Congress the same day {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 288, ed. Sparks. VII. 54) was read in 
Congress May 31 and assigned to another committee. See also Washington's letter to 
Joseph Reed May 28 (ibid., VIII. 293, and VII. 58, respectively). The committee of 
May 29 was Duane, Ellsworth, and Ellery, that of May 31 Ellsworth, Armstrong, and 
Duane. The former committee was discharged June 14, the whole business doubtless 
falling to the lot of the latter. Concerning its activities see no. 207, post. 

[2o6]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. no, no. n, p. 12; 
ibtd., President's Letter-Book, p. 11. 

2 These were the committee's circular letters to the states Mav 25. The com- 
mittee's letter of May 28 is no. 200, ante. 



178 Continental Congress 

Your Report for reducing the New York Battallions had been referred 
to a Committee, and before they had reported, a Petition from a Number 
of the Officers in the Corps proposed to be reduced came into Congress, 
earnestly intreating they might not be constrained to leave the Service at 
this Season, just as the Campaign was opening etc. Congress upon con- 
sidering the Subject came into the Resolution a Copy of which is 
enclosed.^ 
The Honble The Committee at Head Quarters * 

207. A Committee of Congress to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Wednesday, May 31, i o'clock P. M. [1780.] 
Sir, 

We beg leave to inform your Excellency that Congress have appointed 
a Committee to confer with a Committee of the Supreme executive Coun- 
cil of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on a letter just received from 
the Commander in Chief of the Army of these United States respecting 
Recruits and Supplies. The Committee of Congress are ready to confer 
at such time and place as the Committee of the Council and Assembly shall 
appoint. - 

We are with the greatest Respect, 

Your Excellency most obed. humbl Servants, 

Oliv. Ellsworth, 
John Armstrong, 
Jas. Duane. 

3 Paragraphs of the same purport respecting the act of May 30 were included 
in a letter to Washington May 31 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book, p. 11). In the letter to Washington President Huntington wrote: 
" Your Excellencys Despatches of the 27th Instant have been received and laid before 
Congress. It is painful to reflect upon the Distresses and Difficulties therein mentioned. 
I presume Congress will not be wanting on their part to do every thing within the 
Compass of their Power to remove them." The committee's proposal for the reduction of 
the New York regiments is no. 174, ante. The committee at headquarters had had its 
immediate origin in propositions to reduce the army. See nos. 8, note 2, 112, 113, 145, 
note 2, 172, o)ite. Its chief function had however developed into one of feeding and 
clothing and otherwise making efficient the existing army. 

■* In Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XII. 501, is a note concerning a letter written 
in a jocular vein, by William Ellery and James Madison, and addressed to the committee 
at headquarters. It is there stated that the letter was subsequently printed in the Rich- 
mond Compiler, but it has not been located. The writer of the note referred to also 
contributes a poetical farce by Ellery, supposed to have been written about the same time 
and satirizing the proceedings of Congress or one of its committees. 

[207]! Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 281 (signed by Ellsworth, Armstrong, and Duane). 

' See no. 205, ante, the Journals, May 31, and Pa. Col. Recs., XII. 370. The 
committee appeared at the council meeting at a moment when the council was in con- 
ference with a committee of the house on the letters from the committee at headquarters 
and from General Washington of May 25. The committee of Congress, on their part, read 
to the council Washington's letter of May 27 to Congress and stated the situation and 
difficulties. See, further, the Jonrtials, June i ; also Reed to the Pennsylvania commis- 
sioners of supplies June i, in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 287. 



June, I/80 179 

208. The Committee at Headquarters to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Morris Town June ist, 1780.- 
Sir, 

The CommandeF in Chief has laid before us, letters from General How 
Commanding at West Point, and from the Commissaries at that post and 
those depending, from those we have the mortification to find that there 
is not a days provision in the Garrison of any kind; that those which had 
been lodged in the redoubts, and the most pointed orders given to preserve 
it, for the subsistance of the garrison, in case of an attack from the 
Enemy, has thro' necessity been also expended.^ It is exceedingly improb- 
able that the Enemy should be ignorant that the garrison now subsists 
from hand to mouth, and as they have the highest inducement to attempt 
a reduction of that post, we ought to suppose they will ; indeed private 
intelligence has been received that they contemplate it, as soon as the troops 
from Carolina arrive, and these are hourly expected at New York. Should 
they gain it, the consequences would be distressing in the highest degree ; 
permit us to state one : The f rench force is expected to arrive in an East- 
ern port, to co-operate with them, against New York or any other point, 
ours must of necessity cross Hudsons river; hence if the Enemy are in 
possession of the fortresses in the highlands, as the quantity of flour east 
of hudsons river is so amazingly inadequate to the supply of such an Army, 
as we ought to bring into the field, we should have to convey it, from the 
Delaware by the circuitous route of Sussex County, in this State, thro 
orange and part of Ulster, in that of New York, thence by a long land 
transportation to the point of operation; but all the carriage that could 
be collected would be incompetent to the business; and if even a sufficient 
number would be obtained, yet the forage on the route would be exhausted 
before the Army could opperate ofifensively. Thus every prospect of mak- 
ing an impression on the enemy in this Campaign must vanish ; The suc- 
cour of our ally prove rather a misfortune than an advantage; the dis- 
affected encouraged; and a spring given to their hopes, if even the result 
should not be more fatal. 

It therefore becomes indispensibly our duty not to loose a moment in 
furnishing that post so amply as that the garrison may maintain itself 
until this army can march to its relief. 

Your exertions, Sir, and those of the State over which you preside, we 
are no stranger to ; and we rely with confidence that they will be evinced 
on this occasion, both in a supply of salted and fresh meat ; the former 

[2o8]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. ii, p. 198, no. 39, vol. III., f. 81; 
ibid.. Force Trans., Trumbull, vol. XL, pt. IL, p. 231; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers 
(M. H. S.), XL 231. The letter is signed by Schuyler, Mathews, and Peabody. 

2 j,jrie I the committee " Resolved that Abraham Brasher Esq be, and he hereby 
is appointed secretary to this Committee, and that Mr. Benja'n Brown be appointed 
an assistant to the secretary" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. IL, f. 94). Brasher was 
however already serving as secretary to the committee. See no. 195, ante. 

^ See Washington to Howe, June i, Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 69. 



180 Continental Congress 

cannot be dispensed with in a seige, as Cattle cannot be maintained in the 
redoubts which cover the Capital fortress, nor be thrown in, if the Enemy 
should invest them. We have to intreat your Excellency to keep the sub- 
ject of this letter as secret as possible, least the Enemy should take an ad- 
vantage before the supply can be thrown in.* 

209. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia June the ist 1780. 
S'r, 

In my last I had the honour to acquaint you that I had Reed, your 
Feavour of the 28th of april the i8th of may and laid it before Congress, 
and that it wase by them referd [to] the board of War, who this day made 
there Report, in Consequence of which two hunderd and fifty men were 
Voted with a Proportionable number [of] officers, which Resolution I 
herewith Inclose hope it will be agreable." 

We have accounts this day by the way of New York that Charlestown 
in South Carolina have surrendered to our enemys. however there is not 
much Creadit given to it in Congress altho' we have some Reason to fear 
it. We have many Difficultyes to incounter with for want of money or 
Creadet in order to supply the army with Provision who are offen in want 
of meat which is Productive of Very Disagreeable Consiquences. 

as soone as the new money is Prepaired I will Due what lyes in my 
Power to forward it. I am informed it will [be] Ready to be Delivered in 
abought a month.^ 

My Colleague is on a Committee at headquarters for near a month 
Past * Whether he will Returne to Congress before he goes home is 
unsertain. 

210. James Lovell to the President of the Massachusetts 

Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia June 2d, 1780. 
Sir, 

I think it my Duty to forward to you for the Information of the Honor- 
able Council Copies of some Papers in the Office of the Secretary of Con- 

* See also Washington to Trumbull, June i, Alass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth 
ser., X. 166. 

[209] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 169; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare. 
p. i68b. 

- The resolution of June i authorizing the state to raise a force to guard the fron- 
tiers. See no. 179, ante. 

3 See no. 179, ante, and nos. 221, 225, post. 

^ The committee had been appointed Apr. 13, and Peabody had gone to head- 
quarters Apr. 25. 

[2io]iMass. Arch., CCH. 172. 



June, I'jSo 181 

gress necessary to explain a Resolve of that Assembly passed on the 30th 
of May in Respect to an Officer of the Line of the Troops of ]\Iassachu- 
setts who thinks himself aggrieved." 

211. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson/ 

Philadelphia June 2d 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have written several private letters to you since my arrival here, which 
as they contained matters that I should be sorry should fall into other 
hands, I would wish to know had been received. If your Excellency has 
written any acknowledgment of them they have never reached me." .... 

It appears from sundry accounts from the Frontiers of N. Y. and other 
N. States, that the Savages are making the most distressing incursions 
under the direction of British Agents, and that a considerable force is 
assembling at Montreal for the purpose of wresting from us Fort Schuyler 
which covers the N. Western frontier of N. York. It is probable the 
Enemy will be but too successful this campaign in exciting their vindic- 
tive spirit against us throughout the whole frontier of the United States. 
The Expedition of Genl. Sullivan agst. the six nations seems by its effects 
rather to have exasperated than to have terrified or disabled them. And 
the example of those nations will add great weight to the exhortations ad- 
dressed to the more Southern tribes. 

Rivington has published a positive and particular account of the sur- 
render of Charlestown on the 12 Ul'o said to be brought to N. York by 
the Iris which left Charleston five days after. There are notwithstanding 
some circumstances attending it which, added to the notorious character 
for lying of the Author, leave some hope that it is fictitious. The true 
state of the matter will probably be known at Richmond before this reaches 
you.^ 

We have yet heard nothing further of the Auxiliary Armament from 
France. However anxiously its arrival may be wished for it is much to 
be feared we shall continue to be so unprepared to co-operate with them 
as to disappoint their views, and to add to our distress and disgrace. Scarce 

2 The resolve of May 30 was in response to a memorial of Col. John Bailey. The 
papers enclosed were Bailey's memorial (dated May 12, read in Congress May 19) and 
the report of the board of war thereupon. 

[2ii]iLibrary of Congress, Madison Papers. Ac. 1081 ; Writings of Madison (ed. 
Hunt), I. 64; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), p. 147. 

2 Madison adds some remarks concerning letters from William Bingham, news 
of the fleets, etc. The printed text of the letter begins, " It appears ". 

3 See nos. 212, 217, 218, 226-230, 232-234, 243, 247, 253, 256, post. Elias Dayton 
wrote to Washington from Elizabethtown, N. ]., May 30, that " Lying Rivington's 
account of the reduction of C. Town " had been sent ofi by Colonel Stewart without his 
knowledge, that he had had three different accounts within the hour, and that the story 
was not believed in New York, and so ventured to assert that it was one of " Lying 
Jemys Aberations " (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). Washington replied 
May 31, that the account had too many marks of authenticity to be doubted (ibid., draft). 
The name of the South Carolina city is written in the first instance above " Charlestown ", 
in the second " Charleston". In Madison's letter of June 6 (no. 226, post) he again uses 
the form " Charleston ". The latter form is very unusual in this period, the most com- 
mon practice being to write the name in two words, " Charles Town ". 



182 Continental Congress 

a week and sometimes scarce a day, but brings us a most lamentable pic- 
ture from Head Quarters. The army are a great part of their time on 
short allowance, at sometimes without any at all, and constantly depend- 
ing on the precarious fruits of momentary expedients. General Wash- 
ington has found it of the utmost difficulty to repress the mutinous spirit 
engendered by hunger and want of pay : and all his endeavours could not 
prevent an actual eruption of it in two Connecticut Regts. who assembled 
on the parade with their arms and resolved to return home or satisfy their 
hunger by the force of the bayonet.* We have no permanent resource, 
and scarce even a momentary one left, but in the prompt and vigorous 
supplies of the States. The State of Pennsylvania has it in her power to 
give great relief in the present crisis, and a recent act of its Legislature 
shews, they are determined to make the most of it.^ I understand they have 
invested the Executive with a dictatorial Authority from which nothing 
but the lives of their citizens are exempted. I hope the good resulting from 
it will be such as to compensate for the risk of the precedent. 

212. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 2d June, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

The want of a competent Representation in Congress to decide on the 
Business of the Vermonters still continues : we wish however for some 
intermediate act to check their Career, and it is in the Expectation of such 
a Measure that Major Hunt is prevailed on to delay his Journey a few days 
longer." 

We had the Honour of writing to your Excellency on the 21st Instant 
by the post ; among other things we mentioned the necessity of our Legis- 
lature's providing some fund for the support of their delegates, and of a 
speedy remittance to disincumber us from the debts we have already con- 
tracted for our Subsistance. Lest that Letter may have miscarried we beg 
leave to repeat that the Inconvenience of permitting members to draw 
money out of the publick treasury at their pleasure called for a Check: it 
was not less improper with respect to the Community than indelicate as it 
regarded the Applicant. It is true that we gave into the practice but it was 
not that it ever had our Approbation : general acquiescence only gave it 
Sanction. At present the publick Exigencies are such as to close the Trea- 
sury against the private wants of even the members of Congress, and we 
must entreat your Excellency to recommend a suiteable Provision for us 
without Loss of time. They demand from us £ 270 Cont. money a week 
for a gentleman and Servant exclusive even of Table beer, every thing 
else is in proportion, and exchange 60 for one. We take it for granted that 

■* See Washington to the President of Congress May 27, Writings (ed. Ford), 
VIII. 288, (ed. Sparks), VII. 54. 

5 See Washington to Reed May 28, ibid., VIII. 293, VII. 58, respectively. 
[212]! Clinton Papers, V. 777 (signed by Duane and Scott). 

" See nos. 187, 188, 196, 204, ante, the Journals, June 2, and nos. 218, 219, 221, 
232, 244. 253, post. 



June, 1780 183 

it is the Intention of the Legislature that our Expences should be defrayed 
and we wish for no more. If we should be asked for an Estimate it is our 
opinion that the value of six dollars a day specie will be no more than 
sufficient. It is indeed a third more than the original allowance to the dele- 
gates of our state; but it must be observed that every article of Expence 
to which we are exposed is raised to double its former price. 

We enclose your Excellency a Resolution of Congress to establish the 
post you recommend; and we hope that it is expressed in the manner you 
wish and that it will answer the Ends you propose.^ The general Measures 
pursued at Head Quarters to oppose the Irruptions of the Indians and 
British into our distressed state cannot but meet with approbation and 
produce salutary Effects : But horror and devastation will always mark 
the footsteps of those dastardly foes ; and while no adequate defence can 
be provided against the Assassin and Incendiary we must be exposed to 
feel with inexpressible Solicitude and regret the reiterated sufferings of 
our frontier Fellow Citizens. 

We are still anxious for the Fate of South Carolina. Rivington by a 
handbill has made a present of it to Sir Henry Clinton : but the sale is not 
credited.'* 

We shall have the pleasure of writing again to your Excellency by 
Major Hunt, probably in a day or two. 

P. S. Neither of us have as yet received one Shilling from the Treasury. 
J. M. Scott has attended ever since the i8th Feby. last. J. Duane. 

213. The Committee at Headquarters to the Several States.^ 

Circular No. 3. 

In Committee of Congress, 

Morris Town 2d June, 1780. 
Sir, 

In a letter of the 31st ultimo, from the Commander in Chief which we 
had the honor to receive on the same day, his Excellency observes. 

That in the expected co-operation with the force of our ally, against that of 
the common enemy, it is of great moment that we should proceed with cir- 
cumspection, and on the surest ground. Before we can determine what ought 
to be undertaken, we should be able to appreciate the means we shall have it 
in our power to employ, on some precise scale. 

To begin an enterprise against any point in possession of the enemy, on a 
general presumption of sufficient resources in the country, and proportionable 
exertions in the respective Governments to bring them forth, would hardly 

3 See the Jotirnals, June i, and no. 214, post; also Clinton to the delegates June 14 
(Clinton Papers, V. 821). 

* See no. 211, note 3, ante. 
[213]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 55, no. 39, vol. I., f. 66 
(copy sent to Congress), f. 72 (copy to Virginia), no. 39, vol. III., f. 25 (draft) ; ibid., 
Washington Papers; Mass. Arch., CCII. 233; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers 
(M. H. S.) ; N. J. State Lib.; Md. Hist. See, vol. LXXXVIL; R. I. Recs., IX. 114; 
Clinton Papers, V. 781 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 293. The letter is signed by the three 
members of the committee. 



184 Continental Congress 

be justified by success — could never be defended in case of misfortune, to say 
nothing of the fatal consequences that might ensue. It appears to me necessary 
to ascertain the number of men, and the quantity of supplies which the states 
are capable of furnishing in a given time, and to obtain assurances from them, 
founded on experience of their continuing supplies in the same proportion. 
I esteem the plan adopted by the Committee in their Circular letter, an ex- 
tremely good preparatory one ; but I think it of indispensible importance, in 
the next place, to come to something fixed and determinate. I therefore take 
the liberty to submit to the Committee the necessity and propriety of calling 
immediately upon the states for specific aids of men, provisions, forage, and 
the means of transportation.^ 

His Excellency next states the enemies number and position, mentions 
the points against which the combined Arms will probably be directed, and 
furnishes us with an estimate of the force which America ought to draw 
into the field, with others, exhibiting a state of the provisions, horses, car- 
riages, and a variety of other articles indespensibly necessary to give vigor 
and a probable prospect of success to our operations. Duty and inclination 
equally impelled us to a conference with the General, and to the most 
serious consideration of the subject. The result was a determination spe- 
cifically to apportion to, and request from the states referred to in the reso- 
lutions of Congress of the 19th Ultimo to furnish the requisite supplies 
by the first day of July. In estimating these, we have paid all possible 
regard to the probable resources of each, and to their relative position to 
those scenes of operation, which are at present in contemplation. We shall 
accordingly annex the kind, and quantum of supplies which are monthly 
expected from your state ; and we have to intreat that you will fully com- 
ply with the requisitions, we have the honor to make, and that they will 
be kept up, in the same proportion until the last of November, if necessity 
should induce us to continue the application to that period, even although 
any of the articles now called for should exceed the quota assigned you 
by the Act of Congress of the 25th of February last : and you will please, 
Sir, to signify to us, without delay, the determination of your state on this 
important subject. 

Here it becomes our duty to advise you, as upon examination you will 
perceive, that we have stated your quota per month, in some articles, be- 
yond what it would have been could we have strictly adhered to the pro- 
portion on which the allotments made by the act of the 25th February last 
were adjusted ; but this was found impracticable, because of the exhausted 
condition of some of the states, in which the Army and its principal de- 
tachments have wintered. But as these, in the course of the Campaign, will 
be enabled to afTord more than they can at present, your quota as now 

2 Washington's letter to the committee May 31 is in Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 299. 
Probably before writing his letter to the committee Washington had drawn up (with 
his own hand) a " State of Matters as laid before the Com'ee of conference at Morris 
Town May 1780" (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). The essential features 
ofthis memorandum are embodied in his letter of May 31. With this letter of the com- 
mitteeWashington also transmitted a circular letter of the same date to the several states, 
enforcing the representations of the committee. Texts of this letter are found in the 
following: Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth sen, X. 168; R. I. State Recs., IX. 116; 
Clinton Papers, V. 779; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 219; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 293; Arch, 
of Md., XLIII. 508. 



June, i/So 185 

stated will of course diminish. The requisition, Sir, is large, but it is barely 
competent. It is the least adequate to the intended operations, as it is cal- 
culated on the most limited expenditures, without the smallest allowance 
for accidental losses, or extra-consumption. 

Having given the states a fixed point to regulate themselves by, their 
measures will be equal to it, and their exertions competent to the magni- 
tude of the object. In matters of such high import, it appeared to the 
General, and to us, essential that there should be a proper understanding on 
all hands. That the states should know the wants of the Army, and what 
is expected for it ; That the General and the Committee should be clearly 
and explicitly advised of their abilities, both individually, and collectively ; 
and to have determined with precision what may be expected. We do not 
fear to discourage by the largeness of the demand, as we conceive it im- 
possible they should not bear with the knowledge of the wants of their 
Army, and because knowing them, we are persuaded, their wisdom and 
patriotism will impel them to every exertion, fully to afford the supplies 

(Thus far Circular) 

1st. To New Hampshire — The supplies apportioned to your state, are 
as follows, 166,835 pounds of beef per month, and 25 Hogsheads of Rum 
per month, to be transported, and delivered where the commissary general 
shall direct; also 150 horses to be attached to the Army, and to be deliv- 
ered where the quarter master general shall direct, and on or before the 
first day of July next. The first monthly quota of supplies to be delivered 
by the first day of July next, and the subsequent ones monthly, within the 
months succeeding, as the quarter master or commissary general may 
direct. The horses are an additional article to those stated in the act of 
Congress of the 25th February last, but the requisition on your state, as 
on others, for extra-supplies cannot be dispensed with, and the amount 
thereof, together with the transportation of any, must be charged in ac- 
count with the United States. 

2d. Massachusetts-Bay — The supplies allotted to be furnished by your 
state, are 666,035 pounds of beef per month, and 225 Hogsheads of Rum 
per month, to be transported to, and delivered where the Commissary gen- 
eral shall direct, also 4571 Bushels of grain for forage, per month, to be 
transported to, and delivered where the quarter master general shall direct, 
and 1020 draft horses to be attached to the Army, and to be delivered as 
last aforesaid, and on or before the first day of July next. The first 
monthly quota of supplies to be delivered by the first day of July next, and 
the subsequent ones monthly, within the months succeeding, as the quarter 
master general may direct. The forage, and horses, are additional articles 
to those stated in the Act of Congress of the 25th February last; but the 
requisition on your state, as on others, could not be dispensed with, and 
the amount thereof, together with the transportation of any, must be 
charged in account with the United States. 

Sd. Rhode-Island — The supplies alloted to be furnished by your state, 
are 71,675 pounds of beef per month, and 30 Hogsheads of Rum per 
month to be transported to, and delivered where the Commissary general 



186 Continental Congress 

shall direct, also 2285 bushels of grain for forage, per month, to be trans- 
ported to, and delivered where the quarter master general shall direct, and 
200 draft horses to be attached to the Army, to be delivered as last afore- 
said, and on or before the first day of July next. The first monthly quota 
of supplies to be delivered by the first day of July next, and the subsequent 
ones, monthly, zvithin the month succeeding as the quarter master or Com- 
missary General may direct. The forage and horses are additional articles 
to those stated in the Act of Congress of the 25th February last, but the 
requisition on your state, as on others, for extra-supplies, cannot be dis- 
pensed with, and the amount thereof, together with the transportation of 
any, must be charged in account with the United States. 

4. Connecticut — The supplies allotted to be furnished by your state, are 
1500 barrels flour per month, 666,035 pounds of beef per month, 100 
Hogsheads of Rum per month, and 500 Bushels of Salt per month, to be 
transported to, and delivered where the commissary general shall direct, 
30,000 pounds of Bacon, in three equal parcels monthly to the last of 
September, transported and delivered as aforesaid, 9142 bushels of grain 
for forage per month, 100 Ox carts, and 400 Oxen with the requisite num- 
ber of yokes, bows, chains, clevesses and pins, also 1,000 draft horses. The 
Carts, Oxen, and horses to be attached to the Army, all those to be deliv- 
ered, where the quarter master general shall direct, and on or before the 
first day of July next. The first monthly quota of supplies to be delivered 
by the first day of July next and the subsequent ones monthly within the 
months succeeding as the quarter master or commissary General may 
direct. The flour, bacon. Carts, Oxen, horses, and grain are additional 
articles to those stated in the act of Congress of the 25th February last, 
but the requisition on your state, as on others, for extra-supplies, could 
not be dispensed with, and the amount thereof together with the trans- 
portation of any, must be charged in account with the United States. 

5. New York — The supplies allotted to be furnished by your State, are 
71,675 pounds of beef per month, 140 barrels of flour per month, and 
2285 bushels of grain for forage per month, the two former to be trans- 
ported to, and delivered at Albany, and the latter as the quarter master 
general shall direct, also, 600 draft horses to be attached to the Army, and 
to be delivered as last aforesaid, and on or before the first day of July next, 
and the subsequent ones monthly, zvithin the months succeeding, as the 
quarter master, or Commissary general may direct. The horses are an 
additional article to those stated in the Act of Congress of the 25th Feb- 
ruary last, but the requisition on your state, as on others, for extra sup- 
plies, cannot be dispensed with, and the amount thereof, together with the 
transportation of any must be charged in account with the United States. 
Your quota of flour and beef, as now apportioned is short of what it 
should be, in consideration of the exhausted condition of the State, when 
it shall be in a condition to afford more ample supplies, additional requi- 
sitions will be made. 

6. New Jersey — The supplies allotted to be furnished by your state, are 
500 barrels flour per month, 36,760 pounds of beef per month, and 500 
bushels of salt per month, to be transported to, and delivered where the 



June, 1780 187 

commissary general shall direct, 6857 bushels of grain for forage, per 
month, to be transported to, and delivered as the quarter master general 
shall direct, 51 waggons and harness compleat, and with four horses to 
each, and 696 draft horses, the two last mentioned articles to be delivered 
as last aforesaid, and on or before the first day of July next. The first 
monthly quota of supplies to be delivered by the first day of July next, and 
the subsequent ones monthly zvithin the months succeeding, as the quarter 
master or Commissary general may direct. The forage may be, and the 
horses are additional articles, to those stated in the act of Congress of the 
25th February last, but the requisition on your state, as on others, for 
extra-supplies could not be dispensed with, and the amount thereof to- 
gether with the transportation of any, must be charged in account with 
the United States. 

7. Pensylvania — The supplies allotted to be furnished by your State, 
are 5CX)o barrels of flour per month, 1000 barrels of which to be delivered 
at easton, 1000 barrels at Corryels ferry, and the remainder at Trenton; 
166,835 pounds of beef or pork per month, to be delivered in Philadelphia, 
with 30,000 pounds of bacon in three equal parcels monthly to the last of 
September, 225 Hogsheads of Rum per month, delivered at the Army, 
9142 Bushels of grain for forage per month, 1500 of which to be deliv- 
ered at Easton, 1500 at Corryels ferry, and the remainder at Trenton, 250 
Waggons with harness compleat, and with four horses to each and 1500 
horses without harness, all those to be attached to the Army, and to be 
delivered where the quarter master general shall direct, and on or before 
the first day of July next. The first monthly quota of supplies to be deliv- 
ered by the first day of July next, and the subsequent ones monthly, within 
the months succeeding, as the quarter master or commissary general may 
direct. The beef, bacon, horses, and waggons are additional articles to 
those stated in the act of Congress of the 25th of February last, but the 
requisition on your state, as on others, for extra-supplies could not be dis- 
pensed with, and the amount thereof, together with the transportation of 
any, must be charged in account with the United States. 

8. Delaware — The supplies apportioned to your state are as follows, 500 
barrels of flour per month, 71,675 pounds of beef per month, to be trans- 
ported to, and delivered where the commissary General shall direct, 5,000 
pounds of bacon, in three equal parcels, monthly to the last of September, 
transported and delivered as aforesaid, 6,857 bushels of grain to be trans- 
ported and delivered where the quarter master general shall direct, 50 
waggons with harness complete, and with four horses to each ; also three 
hundred draft horses. The waggons and horses to be attached to the 
Army, to be delivered as last aforesaid, and on or before the first day of 
July next. The first monthly quota of supplies, to be delivered by the first 
day of July next, and the subsequent ones monthly, within the months 
succeeding, as the quarter master or commissary general may direct. The 
bacon, waggons, and horses are additional articles to those stated in the 
act of Congress of the 25th of February last, but the requisition on your 
state, as on others, could not be dispensed with, and the amount thereof, 



188 Continental Congress 

together with the transportation of any, must be charged in account with 
the united States. 

p. Maryland — The suppHes allotted to be furnished by your state are, 
2,500 barrels flour per month, 143,045 pounds of beef per month, to be 
transported to, and delivered where the commissary general shall direct, 
30,000 pounds of bacon, in three equal parcels monthly, to the last of 
September, transported and delivered as aforesaid, 11,428 bushels of grain 
for forage, per month, to be transported to and delivered where the quar- 
ter master general shall direct, 50 waggons with harness complete, and 
with four horses to each, also 400 draft horses. The waggons and horses 
to be attached to the Army, and to be delivered as last aforesaid, and on 
or before the first day of July next. The first monthly quota of supplies, 
to be delivered by the first day of July next, and the subsequent ones 
monthly, zmthin the months succeeding, as the quarter master or commis- 
sary general may direct. The bacon, waggons, and horses are additional 
articles to those stated in the act of Congress of the 25th February last, 
but the requisition on your State, as on others, for extra-supplies, could 
not be dispensed with, and the amount thereof, together with the trans- 
portation of any, must be charged in account with the united States. 

10. Virginia — The supplies alloted to be furnished by your state, are 
60,000 pounds of bacon, in three equal parcels, monthly, to the last of 
September, and 60 Hhds. of Rum per month, to be transported and de- 
livered where the commissary general shall direct; also 29,714 bushels of 
grain for forage, per month, to be transported to and delivered as the 
quarter master general shall direct. The first monthly quota of supplies 
to be delivered by the first day of July next, and the subsequent ones 
monthly, ivithin the months succeeding, as the quarter master or commis- 
sary general may direct. The bacon is an additional article to those stated 
in the Act of Congress of the 25th of February last, but the requisition 
on your State, as on others, for extra-supplies, could not be dispensed with, 
and the amount thereof, together with the transportation of any, must be 
charged in account with the united States. We have not apportioned to 
your State any flour, beef, salt, or hay, as we were apprehensive that calls 
might be made on you from the southward, should that not be the case, 
you will forward as much beef, and flour, monthly, as will amount to about 
a fifteenth part of the quota assigned you of those articles by the act of 
Congress of the 25th February last. 

What follows is circular. 

We believe it would be advantageous to the States in general, that the 
carts, oxen, and horses, should be procured by hire, in preference to pur- 
chase, as the drivers who will then accompany them will be more careful 
pf the cattle ; should your State adopt that mode, we recommend that the 
contracts may be made payable in specie, or in paper money equivalent, 
and that the value of the carts, waggons, oxen, and horses, should be ap- 
praised on oath, and a return of the appraisement be made to the quarter 
master general. 



June, 1780 189 

As the object against which the military operations will be directed can- 
not be positively ascertained, we have it not in power to call on you for a 
determinate quantum of transportation, but believe it will be considerable. 

The continental troops already engaged, and with the Army, together 
with the addition requested by the generals letter of the 25th ultimo, to 
complete the batalions to 504 rank and file, will still, in his opinion, and 
our own, be inadequate to insure success in the intended operations. In 
our circular letter of the 25th ultimo, we intreated your legislature to adopt 
measures for drawing forth your militia, on the shortest notice. We have 
now to request that such arrangements may be made as that your quota 
of militia, which, with the concurence of the commander in chief, we 

state at ( The number of militia requested from the several states. 

is contained in the first column of the estimate of supplies — See p. 63)^ 
rank and file shall rendezvous at the Army, or at such posts and places, as 
the General shall direct, by the fifteenth day of July next, at furthest, and 
to continue in service for the term of three months, computing from the 
day of their arrival at such rendezvous, as aforesaid. 

Such of the supplies, herein required, as made part of the quota assigned 
to your State, by the act of Congress of the 25th of February last, and 
which it is requested you will transport to, and deliver where the quarter 
master general or commissary general shall direct, will be receipted for by 
the Continental officers appointed for that purpose, before either they, or 
your agents, convey or transport the same beyond the limits of your State. 
If however such continental officer should not be present, you will give 
directions, that the weight or quantity of the articles may be estimated, 
and an account, or invoice, transmitted with each parcel. We have to ob- 
serve, that in the beef requested, hides and tallow are not included, allow- 
ance must therefore be made for these, when cattle are sent to the Army. 
If drivers are sent with the draft horses and cattle, requested of your State, 
we wish to have one for every four horses or oxen. 

P. S. \\t do most earnestly entreat, that the requisition now made on 
your State, for the quota of Militia may not be suffered on any considera- 
tion whatever, to retard the completion of the Continental batalions, as 
recommended in our second circular letter of the 25th ultimo; The neces- 
sity of that measure becoming daily more striking and important. 

214. The President of Congress to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philada. June 3, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the enclosed Act of Congress of the first Inst : your Excellency will 
be informed, they have directed a Post to be established at Shoheken, and 

[213)3 A tabulated statement of supplies requested, which accompanied the circular, 
found at p. 63 of the Letter-Book; also in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 75. vol. 
III., f. 37. The quotas of men called for were : N. H. 945, Mass. 4725, R. I. 630, Conn. 
2520, N. Y. 1575, N. J. 945, Pa. 3465, Del. 315, Md. 2205, Va. 4725- See nos. 222, 238, 239, 
post. 

[214]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Bock, p. 15; Clinton Papers, V. 793. 



190 Continental Congress 

maintained at the Expence of the United States, the Garrison to be under 
your Excellency's particular Direction and Superintendance, subject how- 
ever to the Order of the Commander in Chief; and to consist of those 
Troops already voted by Congress for the Defence of the Frontiers of 
New York if they can be spared; otherwise by Militia embodied for that 
purpose." 

As the establishing of this Post is under your immediate Inspection 
it is needless to suggest the Necessity and Propriety under our present 
Circumstances, of saving Expence in erecting and establishing this Post 
as far as possible consistent with its answering the Purpose intended, which 
is referred to your Prudence and Direction. 

215, The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia June 3, 1780.^ 
Gentlemen, 

I have the honour herewith to enclose for your Information the Report 
of a Committee of Conference with the Assembly and Supreme Executive 
Council of this State, as also an Act of Congress of the first Instant re- 
specting Supplies which any State may furnish more than its Quota; And 
it is with Pleasure I add that since this Conference, the Assembly and 
Executive Council have adopted such farther Acts and Orders as seem to 
promise, and if duly executed cannot fail, of Success in procuring speedy 
Supplies.^ 

216. The President of Congress to the Governors of New Jersey, 
New York, Connecticut, and Rhode Island.^ 

Philada. June 5, 1780. 
To Gove\^r]nors Livingston, Clinton, Trumbull and Green, 

I have the honour to inform your Excellency that the Bearer Monsr de 
Corny is a Commissary from France, employed to procure the necessary 
Supplies for the Forces of his most Christian Majesty shortly expected 
on this Coast to co-operate with the Armies of these United States. 

In Pursuance of a Conference of a Committee of Congress with the 
Minister of France in Order to facilitate the Co-operations of the com- 
bined Forces, and prevent all Embarrassments that might possibly arise 

~ Cf. nos. 126, 128, 179, 209, ante. 
[215]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. in, no. il, p. 13; 
ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 13. The letter is addressed to "The Hon'ble Philip 
Schuyler, John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody, Esquires, Committee at Headquarters ". 

- Under this date Samuel Holten records in his Diary : " The Hon. Mr Gerry 
set out for Boston and Jere with him. I wrote to the Hon. Council" (Essex Inst. Hist. 
Colls., LVI. 93). "Jere" was Jeremiah Sheldon, Holten's waiter (see ibid., LV. 162). 

3 The committee report referred to is that found in the Journals under June 3. 
See, further, the Journals, June 5, and no. 216, post. A similar letter was written the 
same day to General Washington. President's Letter-Book, p. 12. 

[216] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 18; ibid.. Force Trans., Trum- 
bull, XL 240; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XL 240. R. I. Recs., IX. 117. 



June, 1780 191 

in procuring Supplies; I am directed by Congress to request your Excel- 
lency to afford to Colo Corny the needful Aid and Advice respecting the 
Mode of purchasing the necessary Supplies for the French Forces, which 
he shall be able through your Assistance to procure in the State." .... 

217. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philada. June 5, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honoured with your Letter of the 31st ulto. covering Riv- 
ington's Gazette extraordinary." 

I have received no official Intelligence from the Southward of the sur- 
render of Charles Town. All the Information from that Quarter which 
is come to hand I received this Day in a letter from Govr. Nash covering 
Copies of a Letter from Governor Rutledge to him, and of an intercepted 
Letter signed James Simson, Copies of all which are inclosed.'' 

Your Excellency will observe that although Governor Rutledge's Letter 
of the i6th of May was enclosed in the Letter from Govr. Nash of the 
25th of May addressed to me, yet he takes the liberty to doubt whether 
Charles Town has surrendered ; that the Account still wants Explanation 
though I fear it may eventually prove true. 

I have this moment received authentick Information that the Spaniards 
have taken Mobile, the Garrison consisting of about 800 regular Troops 
are made Prisoners. The Articles of Capitulation which are come to hand 
you will see in the Paper enclosed.* 

2 See the Journals, June 5, no. 2r5, ante, and no. 230, post. As originally drawn 
the resolve proposed to furnish Corny with letters to the executive powers of New 
York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts Bay, and New Hampshire, but as 
adopted the resolve provided for letters to such of the states as he might desire. June 6 
President Huntington transmitted to the committee at headquarters the report of the 
committee appointed to confer with the minister of France, together with the consequent 
resolve of June 5 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. H., f. 113; President's Letter-Book, 
p. 20). Concerning other activities of the committee that made the report, see no. 196, 
ante. See also Lafayette to Luzerne May 17, in Am. Hist. Rev., XX. 342. 
[217]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 17. 

- See nos. 211, 212, note 3, ante. 

^ Copies of these three letters, in the writing of Charles Thomson, are in the 
Washington Papers. Rutledge's letter was written from Camden, May 16. The inter- 
cepted letter of James Simpson was written from Charleston May 5 and was addressed 
to a Rev. Mr. Wickham of North Carolina. See also W. C. Houston to Governor 
Livingston June 4 (A''. /. Rev. Corr., p. 221 ; Glenn, Houston, p. 59). June 6 Huntington 
transmitted a copy of the paper to the committee at headquarters, and referred the com- 
mittee to this letter for southern news (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. H., f. 114; 
President's Letter-Book, p. 19). Cf. nos. 221-230, post. 

* News of the taking of Mobile came through a letter from Governor Galvez of 
New Orleans, dated May 8. See the Journals, June 6, and no. 226, post ; see also the 
Journals, June 17 (memorial of William Pickles), and July 10. On the latter date Con- 
gress ordered that copies of the Galvez letter and other papers be transmitted to Jay, 
but they are not mentioned by Lovell in his letter to Jay July 11 (no. 308, post). Copies 
of the Galvez letter of May 8, the Pickles memorial, the capitulation of the settlements on 
I^ke Pontchartrain Oct. 16, 1779, all in the writing of Charles Thomson, are however 
arnong the Laurens Papers (Congressional Letters, etc., 1779) in the South Carolina 
Historical Society. Laurens was at the moment (July i) in Philadelphia, preparing to 
depart upon his mission to Holland. 

17 



192 Continental Congress 

218. The New York Delegates to the Governor of 
New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 5 June 1780. 

The Resolutions of Congress of Fryday last respecting the controverted 
district of our state were this morning read and have now all the neces- 
sary Solemnity for their authentication." We thought it adviseable to have 
some Copies printed in order to their being certified by the Secretary and 
circulated in such manner as your Excellency and the Legislature may 
judge best. Maryland and Delaware continue to be unrepresented which 
retards a final determination on the Claim of independent Jurisdiction 
assumed by the Vermonteers. We cannot, however, entertain the least 
doubt but that Congress will decide against a usurpation which both in its 
principles and its consequences has the most dangerous and alarming Ten- 
dency. We need not reassure your Excellency that we shall embrace the 
earliest opportunity to urge forward a hearing : for we have nothing more 
at Heart than to put an End to this pernicious Contest.^ 

The Fate of Charles Town is still suspended. Governour Rutledge in a 
Letter to Governour Nash of North Carolina of the i6th of May last uses 
these Expressions : " We have accounts so certain that I think they cannot 
be doubted that on Fryday last Charles Town surrendered ; as yet I have 
received no authentic Intelligence of the Terms of Capitulation." Mr. 
Rutledge then resided at Cambden about 60 miles from Charles Town. 
This disagreeable Report seems to be corroborated by Rivingston's hand 
bill ; but the total want of official Information or even private Letters from 
Friends or Foes, on so important an Event and after near a Month from 
the time it is supposed to have happened stamps it with strong marks of 
Suspicion. It is only supposing that the Enemy at the time the Iris sailed 
from Charles Town which was the 17th of May thought it for their ad- 
vantage to spread a Report of the Surrender, and we can as easily account 
for its passing from their Lines thro' the adjacent Country to the Ears 
of Governour Rutledge, as for its being propagated thro' that Channel of 
Misrepresentation, Rivington's Gazetted .... 

219. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of 
Maryland (Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

p. ^. Philadelphia June 5th, 1780. 

.... I need not have Posted to Phila. in the haste I did, as the busi- 
ness relating to Vermont was the occasion of the Summons." The New 

[218]^ Clinton Papers, V. 797 (signed by Duane and Scott). 

-This would seem to indicate that the resolutions of June 2 were given a second 
reading June 5. If this is true, the proceeding was unusual, although not wholly with- 
out precedent. For instance, the Journals record that the circular letter of September 13, 
1779, " was read twice and unanimously agreed to ". Possibly the action June 5 was the 
adoption of the resolutions as a whole, which however is recorded in the Journals as 
having been done June 2. 

3 See no. 212, note 2, anle. 

■* Cf. nos. 217, 218, ante, and nos. 226-230, post. 
[219]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9495. 

- See nos. 181, 187, 188, 196, 197, 212, 218, ante, and nos. 221, 232, 244, 253, post. 



June, 1780 3 93 

York Delegates are impatient to subdue the people setled on the New 
Hampshire Grants, and who claim a Jurisdiction of their own; but I hope 
and trust, that Congress will have more wisdom than to take final Order 
in this business, before our independence is established ; we have business 

enough on our hands without carving out more at this time The 

State is still unrepresented so that Maryland is without a Vote in Con- 
gress 

220. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of 
New Jersey (William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, June 5th, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive enclosed two resolutions of Congress which have 
doubtless already gone from the President in the ordinary course of com- 
munication. But as papers sometimes miscarry, thought it not amiss to 
repeat them. That relative to deserters - will certainly be of moment, 
should any French troops or the troops of any allied or co-operating 
power, ever be landed on the American shores for the purpose of giving 
assistance in the prosecution of the war. The laws relative to desertion 
will easily be extended to secure and return them. This is not only the 
duty of an ally, but it is our interest in many respects and no objection that 
I know of can be taken to it. 

The other, relative to the defence of the interior frontiers against the 
incursions of the savages ^ is important to us. I understood, when lately 
at Trenton, that there was a bill before the legislature for embodying a 
number of militia to protect the upper settlements. That no hesitation may 
hereafter be made relative to the allowance of continental pay and rations 
it would be well to take the step New York has taken, and obtain the ap- 
probation and engagement of Congress or the commander-in-chief — either 
will be sufficient. Every one must be convinced of the necessity of sup- 
porting the settlements over the mountain; for if they are obliged to re- 
move, double if not treble the number of men will be necessary to secure 
the country against impressions, and after all it will not be so effectually 
done in this as in the other mode. The post established in Ulster will be 
of advantage in the general protection, and the legislature will be able to 
determine in what degree we may be benefitted by it. In the resolutions 
of 4th April last is mentioned the body of men to which this of the ist 
inst. refers. 

221. Nathaniel Folsom to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Philadelphia June the 5th, 1780. 
S'r, 

I Reed, your Feavour last evening of the 31st of may Incloseing a letter 
from President AVeare. I Rote him last friday and informed him that the 

[220] 1 A/". /. Rev. Corr., p. 224; N. J. State Lib.; Glenn, William Churchill Houston, 
p. 62. 

2 May 27. 

3 June I. 

[221 ]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, II. 18. 



194 Continental Congress 

money wood be Redy in abought a month and that I wood Due what lay 
in my Power to forward it as Soone as Possible." if you have any opper- 
tunety at headquarters hope you will let me know of it in Congress we 
go on in the old Slow way of Dueing business, hardly any thing done 
worth Communicateing or you the trouble of hereing three Days nerly 
have been Spent in Determining whether ever the Disputes Shall be Set- 
tled between the Settelers on the grants and the Several Claiments and 
when, as soone as it is finished I will inclose you a Coppy.^ .... 

222. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

Morris Town June 5th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's letters of the 29th and 31st covering Acts of Con- 
gress of the 19th, 26, 27 and 30th ult. were delivered us on the 2nd Instant. 

Since our last we have received a letter from the Commander in Cheif, 
stating the necessity of specific requisitions from the states, for men, 
provisions, forage, and the means of transportation. We have in conse- 
quence addressed ourselves to the several states on the subject/ and made 
requisitions from each to the amount of men estimated by the General, 
and of supplies aggreable to the other estimates which accompanied his 
letter and which we inclose, marked A, B and C.^ The articles deficient as 
per the Estimates from No. i to 9 inclusive are such that it was thought 
improper to call on the states for them, and these must be supplied by pur- 
chase, by the Quarter Master General as soon as he can be furnished with 
money which we intreat may be as soon as possible. 

We are informed that the Navy Board at Boston is possessed of a quan- 
tity of Duck, sufficient for the Tents which are deficient. As we are not 
authorized to call on any of the boards for supplies, we request Congress 
will order this article to be furnished. 

_2C/. nos. 179, 209. ante, and no. 225, post. The letter to Weare "last f riday " 
was evidently that dated June i, which was Thursday. 
3 See no. 219, ante, and no. 244, post. 
[222]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 55, f. 53 (draft 
by Schuyler, and signed by the three members), no. ii, p. 26. 

2 The circular letter of June 2 (no. 213. ante), copy of which seems not however 
to have been transmitted to Congress until June 12 (see no. 238, post). Washington's 
letter was that of May 31 (see no. 213, note 2). The committee wrote to Governor Trum- 
bull June 5 : " The Committee have taken the Liberty of inclosing to your Excel'y dis- 
patches for the states of R Island, Massa. bay and New hamp'r, which they request your 
Excell'y to forward by express as soon as possible, it being a matter of the highest 
importance that the Respective states should receive them without loss of time." Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 199 (letter-hook copy), no. 39, vol. III., f. 85 (draft by Peabody). 

3 This letter is endorsed : " A Letter from the Comm'ee at Head quarters, June 5, 
1780 Read 8. Referred to Mr. J. Jones, Mr. Ellsworth, Mr. Bee [thus far in Thomson's 
writing, the remainder in another hand] With Genl. Green's Letters to Genl. Wash- 
ington May 28, 1780 containing A, B, C. A. Estimate of provisions for an Army of 
40,000 men for 30 days ; B. do. of forage for the horses for do. do. ; C. do. Waggons 
and horses for do. Wanting the letter from Commander in chief mentioned within but 
not sent." 

Action was taken upon this letter June 13 and the orders transmitted to the committee 
at headquarters June 15. See no. 267, post. 



June, I /So 195 

We have not time by this conveyance to transmit copies of our letters, 
but as those to the states North of Virginia are nearly similer to that of 
Pensylvania, we leave it under flying seal for the perusal of Congress, as 
likewise that of Virginia, because the latter varies Considerably from the 
others. The Militia called for from that state being intended (tho not 
expressed) for the southern quarters, should the exigencies of affairs re- 
quire their being sent thither. 

Your Excellency will please to forward the letters for the states which 
we inclose, with as much dispatch as possible. 

We have retained no Copies of the Estimates, and beg they may be re- 
turned to us as speedily as possible. 

We have the honor to be with Great respect and Esteem 

Your Excellency's Most obt. Humble Servt. 

Ph. Schuyler 
Jno. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody 

223. The Committee at Headquarters to Ephraim Blaine.^ 

Morristown 5th June 1780. 
Sir, 

The Committee of Congress request that you will repare [sic^ with all 
possible dispatch to head quarters, as your presence becomes daily more 
necessary, and nothing conclusive can be done relative to your department 
until you arrive here." 

I am, by order. Sir 

Your most hbl. servt. 

Ab. Brasher, sec'y. 

224. The President of Congress to George Washington.'- 

Philadelphia June 6, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency that in their 
Opinion it is expedient for Major Lee with the Corps under his Command 
to proceed immediately to South Carolina, unless his March to the South- 
ward should counteract or embarrass such Plan of Operation as you may 
have concerted with Intention of employing that Corps otherwise. 

The Foot belonging to that Corps have marched to the Southward some 
Distance from hence, how far I am not able to say. The Horse I am in- 
formed are in and about Darby. Major Lee is now in this City. As Con- 
gress have never given any Orders to direct Major Lee in his March, and 
are ignorant of Occurrences that may have taken place since he received 
Marching Orders, I am directed to communicate the Sense of Congress 

[223]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 253 (copy), no. 11, 
p. 255 (copy). 

- The letter was addressed to Blaine at Philadelphia. On this day he appears 
to have been in Lancaster County. Pa. Arch., first sen, VIIL 304. 

[224]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 20. 



196 Continental Congress 

as above expressed, with the fullest Confidence that your Excellency will 
give such Orders respecting Major Lee's Corps as shall appear most con- 
ducive to the public Service, and Safety of the United States.^ 

225. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia June the 6th, 1780. 
S'r, 

Last evening I Reed, your Favor of the 8th of May and you may Rely 
upon it nothing Shall be wanting in my Power to forward the new Emis- 
sion as Soon as it Can be got Ready which I Expect will be in less then a 
month. ^ .... 

the Derangement of our finances and the length of time it takes for the 
new Plan of Supplying the army to take Place Creates many Difificultys 
in the Camp and trouble on that account in Congress. 

P. S. I Rote you last fryday on the Subject of your Letter hope you 
will Recive it 

226. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia June 6th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

A Vessel from West Florida has brought to the President of Congress 
intelligence from Govr. Galvez of the surrender of Mobile. No other par- 
ticulars than those contained in the inclosed paper are mentioned, except 
the verbal report of the Capt. that the Garrison consisted of about 800 
including inhabitants etc." Seven or eight vessels have just arrived from 
the W. Indies as you will observe in the inclosed paper but they bring no 
satisfactory information concerning the late engagement between the two 
fleets. The Address from the Genl. Assembly was yesterday immediately 
on its receipt laid before Congress and referred to a special Committee on 
whose report it will probably be considered in a committee of the whole. ^ 

2 See nos. 187, 196, 197, anfc, and no. 231, {>ost. In the Jo-urnals, June 6, is found 
an erased resolve, " That Major Lee be ordered to proceed immediately to South Caro- 
lina with the Corps under his Command ". The presumption is that that resolve was 
rescinded and instead was adopted the course indicated by this letter. The Journals do not 
however make any record of the later action. June 8, evidently before he had received 
President Huntington's communication, Washington wrote to the board of war that 
Lee's corps was needed in the Jersies (see also Washington to Lee, June 11, Writings, 
ed. Sparks, VIL yy), and June 21 he requested the board to order Lee's corps to join the 
army. Meanwhile, on June 19, Congress had again recommended to Washington to order 
the corps to join the southern army, "if not incompatible with the service", but on 
June 29 instructed the board of war to comply with Washington's request. 

[225]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See nos, 179, 209, 221, ante. 

[226] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081. 

2 See no. 217, ante. 

3 The Virginia address pertained to the defense of the Southern states. The 
report of the special committee was brought in June 7, but it appears that no action was 
taken upon it. The report is marked by Secretary Thomson as " Obsolete ", probably 



June, 1780 197 

I flatter myself that the arrival of the French Armament which is hourly 
expected will place our affairs in a less melancholy situation than their 
apprehensions seem to paint them. There is little doubt but the conquest 
of the Southern States was the object of the operations of the present 
Campaign, but I cannot think the Enemy will pursue that object at the 
manifest risk of N. York. It is more probable they will leave a strong 
garrison in Charleston, and carry back to N. York the residue of their 
forces. If they should endeavour to extend their acquisitions in the South- 
ern States, it must proceed from an assurance from England that a su- 
perior naval force will follow the french fleet to frustrate their views on 
the American Coast. I cannot suppose that however intent they may have 
been on taking post at Portsmouth, that they will venture in the present 
prospect to spread themselves out in so exposed a situation. 

22y. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia June 6, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the enclosed paper of this day your Excellency will see the Spaniards 
are in possession of Mobile.' There are no late official accounts from 
South-Carolina, but from a variety of circumstances there is much reason 
to apprehend that Charlestown is in the hands of the Enemy and that the 
Garrison capitulated about the 12. of May.^ 

The war will probably be very serious with us this Campaign and it is 
to be wished all may duly expect and be prepared for it. 

Some of the new bills for Connecticut will I hope be forwarded the be- 
gining of next week.* What the Eastern States have done on the resolu- 
tions of the 1 8th of March your Excellency is fully inform'd of. N. York 
has adopted the Measure with unanimity and spirit and pledged their for- 
feited Estates as a fund for their Bills. The Assembly of New Jersey it is 
said have neerly compleated their Act for adopting the measure. This 
State your Excellency will see in the enclosed paper. The Assembly of 
Delaware are convening again and it is to be hoped will have wisdom and 
firmness enough to do right. Maryland meets again the 7th of this month. 
Mr. Jenifer a delegate from that State says they will undoubtedly adopt 
the measure and execute it, as not only the people but a decided majority 
both in Senate and Assembly approve it. A question arose when their 
Assembly were last together between them and the Senate, whether the 

because Congress had already (June 5) taken some measures for that defense, and on 
June 6 had resolved to make the consideration of the state of the Southern department 
an order of the day on the following Friday (June 9). See, further, the Journals, 
June 9. 13, 14, 16, 17, 19. 

[227]! Conn. State Lib.. Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 248; Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Collections, seventh ser.. III. 46. 

2 See nos. 217, 226, ante. 

^ See nos. 217, 226, ante, and nos. 230. 232-234, post. 

* In his letter of June 8 (no. 230, post, passage there omitted) he says that two 
or three hundred thousand dollars of the new bills for Connecticut will be sent forward 
on Monday next, and makes some suggestions with regard to the exchange of old bills 
for new. 



198 Continental Congress 

new bills should be a Tendery, on this they grew warm and adjourned — 
they have probably by this time cooled and discovered that they were dis- 
puting about a circumstance not very essential. Virginia Assembly are 
together and there is every reason to expect they will adopt the measure 
pretty unanimously.^ 

There is nothing very late from Europe, nor any other particulars yet 
reed, of the engagement in the West Indies than what is taken from the 
English Accounts. We heer nothing yet of the arrival of the french fleet, 
but shall begin to look out for them in a week or ten days. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect, 

Your Excellency's Most obedt. humb. Servt. 

Oliver Ellsworth 

228. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia 6 May [June] 1780. 

Accept, my dear General, my Thanks for your favour of the [blankl. 
Like you I feel the want of Power and Decision in the great National 
Council, and of active Perseverance in the People at large : But while both 
are to be ascribed to obvious, nay necessary. Causes it will be vain indeed 
to repine. To a republican form of Government Jealousy in confering 
extensive Authority is natural : and equally natural is it for Men to relax 
and become supine after long and violent Exertions. However experience 
has proved, and I trust it will prove again, and as often as may be neces- 
sary, that Distress and Calamity will rouse us to a suitable display of 
publick Confidence and private Virtue : and that both cooperating will be 
abundantly sufficient to enable us to surmount the pressing difficulties 
which surround us. 

In a word I think I may venture to assure you that no Requisition from 
the Commander in Chief which Congress has the Means of complying with 
will be refused and, on the other hand, I have no doubt but his wisdom 
and Vigour will point out what is proper. That you will be near to assist 
him I regard as a fortunate Circumstance 

P S. I cou'd give you some Reasons to doubt whether Charles Town 
was surrendered the 12 : of May; but they are not satisfactory to my own 
Mind.' .... 

229. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philada. 6th June 1780. 
Dear General, 

I am now to answer or rather acknow [ledge] the receit of yr. favour 
of the loth Ultimo — as being but a few days here, I shall rather give you 
a Scetch of present appearances and things to be early apprehended than 
at present attempt any formal answer to yours. 

5 Cj. no. 160, ante, and nos. 264, 290, post. 
[228] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 558. 

- See nos. 217, 226, 227, ante, and nos. 229, 230, 232-234. 243, post. 
[229]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVI.; .V. C. State Rees., XIV. 496. 



June, 1780 199 

-' The French troops (expected to be about eight thousand including 
Marines) are not yet arived tho' daily expected either into the Delaware 
Bay, or at Rhode Island — of the Land forces, 5000 effective is said to be 
the nearest mark, these in conjunction with ours, augmented by Militia to 
the number of 40,000 men, are thought of to form a Blockade agst. 

N k this effort if made will try our finances and other resources 

(I mean provisions, Forage, Waggons etc.) to the very bottom — the 
treasury is already empty or nearly and of the Interest of money lent the 
publick, not one shilling can be had ! yet it is said that the foreign troops 
must be employed when they come, and that to decline the Object men- 
tioned above will set us in a bad point of light with our Allies etc. — the 
Marquis Le Fyett who is now at Camp, I find is very fond of it. This 
business in my Opinion cannot be attempted till after Harvest. This 
morning bro't us the depressive intelligence of the fall of Charlestown, by 
letters from Mr. Laurens dated at Wilmington which gives the surrender 
a greater appearance of truth than former accts. had done, yet not fully 
assertained but as good as granted on all hands." The expectation of the 
French troops well known to Sir Harry Clinton may favour the residue of 
our Southern possessions, by recaling their force to New York. 

The demands of the Southern Gentlemen you may be sure are very 
urgent upon Congress for farther aid to that Country and the Legislature 
of Virginia in a late adress hath conjured us to that purpose — what may 
be proper to be done cannot so well be determined until the reinforcement 
arive and the farther movements of the Enemy to the South become more 
evident.^ On perceiving that a motion wou'd probably be made for sending 
you to the South. I moved your being sent for to this City, urging the 
propriety of every assistance in forming the arangements of the Cam- 
paign etc. — from one quarter I was opposed with the immediate necessity 
of your taking the command of the Southern Militia, with the Maryland 
line etc. for the defence of those States — this I thought proper to parry 
for the present, with the approach of Sir John Johnston who is fortifying 
in that Country, and may have, or expect a much greater force in his rear 
than the Six hundred which at present appears, the indigested state of our 
affairs and the light we require from future events — that Baron DeCalb 
was gone forward etc. So that on the whole the debate produced for the 
present no more than the revival of a few past transactions, and the good 
opinions wch naturally follow them. In the Idea of Consultation respect- 
ing the arrangements for the Campaign, it was alledged that as the House 
had a Standing Committee with the Commander in Chief, that must suf- 
fice. From these hints you will naturally see. that your call to the field 
may be set down as certain, but the time when and the place where, as 
uncertain ; it may be in a fortnight, and yet may not be until the Fall. I 
confess I cou'd wish your presence here and a Visit to that Army might 
have it's utillity, on the other hand, the errand that at this time wou'd lead 
a man from his own house as a volentier. ought to be irresistable, the ex- 
pence and scarcity of money, being equally indiscriptible ! Your intimate 

2 See nos. 226-228, ante, 232-234, 243, post. 

3 See the Journals, June 6, 7, 9, 13, 14, 17. 19. 



200 Continental Congress 

friends will however be much obliged by your sentiments on the business 
of the Campaign, and also on your own private wishes, which we know 
will be governed by the laws of reason, and of Arms.* As to Charlestown ^ 
I'm now obliged to think we had better compose ourselves, and take our 
next Steps, yet can I hardly be persuaded that Genl. Lincoln, unable to 
defend the place, will not attempt to get out more or less of the Conti- 
nental troops either by land or by Water. As to our finance, at once in the 
lowest and most delicate situation, it must wholly depend on the success 
of the resolution of the i8th of March last, and therefore the concurrence 
of the States is of all things to be wished and endeavoured. Pennsylvania, 
altho' without money has made a vigorous effort not only to rais [e] troops 
for the Campaign, but to provide a temporary supply in the Article of 
Meat for our Army lately starving which is beside the Quota assigned her. 
It's true the troops are necessary to her immediate defence ag'st the depre- 
dations of the Indians. Our Merchants have I hear, agreed to give the 
new money a currency so far as is in their way, and I hope all the states 
will concur in their several Laws to establish the resolution mentioned 
above. I hope you will have other letters by the Doctor — And am 

Dear General, with my best Respects, to your Lady and Major Gates, 
Your very Affectionate friend and humble Servt. 

John Armstrong 

[P. S.] I am better pleased with the simplicity and temperance of the 
Chevaliers Table than I expected, except the innumerable Sweet Meats 
and Deserts of which there is a great redundance. 

Johnston I believe will be repelled by the York line of the Army and 
some Militia of that State gone up for that purpose. 

230. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).'^ 

Philadelphia, June 8, 1780. 
Sir, 

The various accounts we have from the Southward still leave it a mat- 
ter of some doubt whether Charlestown is taken or not ; tho' it is now gen- 
erally believed to have been safe on the 12th of May, and by many as late 
as the i8th.^ .... 

Your Excellency will doubtless receive from the President a resolution 
for advancing in Connecticut a sum of the monies of these United States, 
when such there shall be not otherwise appropriated, to the French Com- 

* The motion to call Gates to Philadelphia is not mentioned in the Journals. The 
resolution to put him in command of the Southern army was adopted June 13, on motion 
of Thomas Burke and Thomas Bee. See also the Journals, June 14, and nos. 243, 250, 
post. 

^ Holten recorded in his Diary June 5, " We have accounts from the southward 
by which it is supposed Charleston is taken ". It is pertinent to remark here that, if 
Holten did actually write " Charleston ", as the printed text of his Diary has it here and 
in other places, it was unusual. See no. 211, note 3, ante. 
[230]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 47. 

- Cf. nos. 226-229, ante, 232-234, 243, post. 



June, 1780 201 

missary, Mons. de Corny, to be replaced in specie on the arival of their 
fleet. It is, indeed, to be wished that the United States had mony at this 
time in Connecticut and other States that could be advanced for such 
exchange, as evident and essential benefits might result therefrom. But at 
present it cannot be supposed that they have much money in bank any- 
where. This the Minister was frankly informed of before the resolution 
passed, that he might not be thereby disappointed, and that it was doubt- 
ful whether there would soon be any considerable sums in the Treasury or 
loan office in Connecticut that Congress would have right to draw for. 
It is earnestly his wish to do all in his power for establishing the credit 
of the paper currency. And I will take the liberty to suggest to your Ex- 
cellency as I did to the Minister that should the United States not have 
money on hand that they could so exchange, it might be of publick utility 
could such exchanges be made with individual States or persons. He has 
received of this State £17,000 of their new bills pretty similar to those 
lately struck by Connecticut, to replace the same in specie when the fleet 
arives. It would be well if the specie which the fleet may bring into the 
country for supplies could with their approbation and convenience be 
placed in the publick Treasuries and their purchases made with the same 
currency as ours.^ .... 

231. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

(public) 

Philadelphia June 9th [1780.] 
Sir, 

I have the mortification to inform you that the Enemy are parading the 
Jerseys in great force, at least with six thousand Infantry and the Gen- 
eral says with a large body of horse also, in consequence of this move- 
ment the commander in chief requests that major Lee may be ordered 
to the main army, and I suppose this morning Congress will prevent his 
proceeding to the southward.' 

a Committee of Congress who have been many weeks at head quarters 
with very extensive powers, in concurrence with G. Washington and the 
marquis de La Fayette, think proper to call upon the different states for 
a considerable quantity of specific supplies in addition to a former resolu- 
tion of Congress, and also for 22,000 militia immediately to join the 
northern army, but whether Congress will send forth the requisitions to 
the state of Virginia I cannot determine, as the neighboring states will 
demand your utmost exertions.^ 

I suppose the great plan of finance is already happily executed ; indeed 
the resolutions of Congress should be complied with, as a General scheme, 

^ See no. 216, ante. 
[231]! From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 

2 See no. 224, ante. The expected action relative to Lee's corps was not taken 
June 9. On June 19, however, Congress went so far as to resolve that a request to that 
eflfect be presented to Washington, conditioned however on his approval. That request 
was, in effect, withdrawn June 29. 

3 See nos. 145, 166, 167, 172-174, 183, 184, 195, 200, 213, 222, ante, and nos. 236, 241, 
257, 266, 267, etc., post. 



202 Continental Congress 

for without unanimity upon these important points our confederation will 
break to pieces, what ever may have been the opinions of some states in 
Congress, a large majority of that body ought to be regarded especially in 
critical times like the present.* 

Congress have no objection that I should sit in the Court of appeal, not- 
withstanding my resignation be not accepted, but my attendance must be 
dispensed with whilest acting in that commission — it is probable I shall 
not act in that commission long.'^ .... 

232. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia 9th June 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Every objection that you make to the Limitation of the powers of the 
commissioners was foreseen before I left head quarters and I mentioned 
them to you. I knew from past experience the real or effected delicacy of 
some gentlemen upon that point and the facility with which people are 
won over to an opinion that flatters their pride." However I have no 
doubt that upon this great occasion every State will make spirited exer- 
tions. The Gent, of this place have agreed to receive the new State money 
as specie and have set on foot a subscription for filling up the Pensilvania 
Line. The Minister has made a loan of the new Money if it can be got 
ready to be repaid in specie when the fleet arrive so that I have some hope 
that we shall have it in our power to pay our troops a proportion of specie 
equivalent to what the french troops receive while they act together. If 
this can be accomplished so far as relates to the privates it may prevent 
jealousies between them and the forces of our ally. As to the limitation of 
the generals power of cooperation I consider it as a thing of no conse- 
quence except as it may remove the blind behind which it would have been 
proper to mask our designs, since it appears to be the general sentiment of 
Congress that war could not be carried on without the limmits of these 
States unless by their express direction. Nor indeed do I conceive it pos- 
sible with our present force while the enemy retain their army in this quar- 
ter to transport any of ours into Canada.^ 

■'See the Journals, May 19; cf. ibid.. June 29. See also Jefferson to President 
Huntington June 9, in Writings (ed. Ford), II. 304. 

° For some account of the estabhshment of the Court of Appeals see no. 23. note 2, 
ante. Grififin was chosen one of the judges Apr. 28. For his response see the Journals, 
May 4. What may be a later addition to this letter (June 13) will be found post, no. 245. 
[232]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1259 (addressed to Schuyler at Morris- 
town, " fav'd by Majr. Genl. Arnold"). 

- See nos. 166, 183, 187, 194 (note 3), 197, ante; cf. no. 257, post. 

3 Schuyler had evidently brought to the attention of Livingston the fact that 
Washington's powers as commander-in-chief appeared to be limited by action of Congress 
to the boundaries of the United States, thereby hampering Washington's co-operation 
with the allies. Livingston does not appear however to have thought it of sufficient con- 
cern to press the question in Congress. Five days later (doubtless after Schuyler had 
received Livingston's letter), and when Schuyler was on the point of returning to 
Philadelphia for the purpose of laying before Congress some of the results of the com- 
mittee's deliberations, another member of the committee, Nathaniel Peabody, wrote to his 



June, 1780 203 

The fate of Charles town yet remains a secret, every day however seems 
in some measure to falsify Rivingtons story. We yesterday reed, a Letter 
from Chase who asserts roundly that all was safe there on the 28th. The 
Baltimore paper of the 6th affirms the same thing so that without being 
very sanguine we may hope that the MaryLand line and the News from 
f ranee may raise the seige.* 

You give me no answer to what I wrote about the grants nor has Mr. 
Peabody answered my letter to him, remind him of it — I am interested. 

233. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 
My Dear Bee, Morris Town June 9th, 1780. 

I was made extremely happy by the receipt of your letter the last evening 
announcing your long expected arrival at Philadelphia, but exceedingly 
regret my being so situated as not to be able to promise myself any short 
day when to embrace my much valued friend, yet should a small relaxation 
of business admit of it before the Army moves from hence, neither the 
distance nor the season will prevent my taking a run down to ask you, 
how you do, and to pay my respects to Mrs. Bee 

Could I conceive myself any ways useful in Congress at this time, 
towards promoting the welfare of my own Country, nothing could enduce 
me to be absent. But if Chs Town falls, it must be by our exertions here 
in the course of this Campaign, that we can promise ourselves the most 
distant hopes of regaining it during the War. And I should feel the ut- 
most anxiety were it to be in the hands of the enemy, at the commence- 
ment of a treaty of peace. I have much to say to you on this subject, which 
would not be prudent to commit to paper. And it will keep very well 'till 
that period arrives, if I should not see you sooner. 

Probably the conclusion of this campaign will introduce this subject. 
I say under these circumstances I think I can render more essential services 
here in promoting vigour and activity in the States to draw forth their 
reserves, in such manner, as to put it in our power to act with efficacy in 
our intended Offensive operations, if this oppertunity is lost, we cannot 
reasonably expect, nor should we deserve another. You will find in our 
circular letters to the States, (Copies of which have been transmitted to 
Congress) a full statement of our affairs, and what we have done. I would 
recommend them to your perusal, tho' they are lenghty, they will be worth 
your serious attention, and afford you much information. If the States 
exert themselves as they ought, the Campaign will most probably end hap- 
pily, if they do not. the reverse, perhaps fatally." 

colleague, Nathaniel Folsom (Schuyler was the bearer of the letter), asking Folsom to 
use his influence "to get the Error rectified" (see no. 248, post). At the same time he 
had (or took) occasion to write to .Samuel Holten and brought the matter also to his 
attention (see no. 287, post). None of these gentlemen appeared however to be willing to 
father a measure which would remove the restriction. Finally the committee made bold, 
in the letter to Congress July 18 (no. 322, post), to lay the matter squarely before Con- 
gress, and Congress, with reasonable promptness, declared (Aug. 2) that such a restric- 
tion had not been intended. See no. 322, note 17, nos. 353, 434, post. 

* See nos. 226-230, ante, 233, 243, post. 
[233]! Charleston Library Society, Miscellaneous MSS. 

2 Mathews was a member of the committee sent to headquarters, at this time 
engaged in efforts to obtain the requisite supplies for the army and to reinforce it. See 
nos. 194, 195, 213, etc., ante. 



204 Continental Congress 

I cannot as yet believe that Chs Town is lost, at least not on the twel [f ]th 
of May, or you certainly would have received intelligence of it many days 
ago probably authenticated.^ 

If [it] has fallen, or does fall, I fear the whole Country goes with it, 
for having nothing but a few discontented fluctuating militia to depend 
on we shall never be in any condition to check the ravages of a merciless 
ememy, and I imagine our people have not fortitude enough to see their 
property destroyed, when their submissions can be the means of saving it. 
I suppose they will have as little respect for us, as for any two Gentlemen 
whatever. For my own part I shall look on myself (whenever this event 
happens) as not worth a groat, unless we can retake the county or have it 
restored by treaty, then the land must remain, but nothing else. 

As to becoming a British subject again, if a restoration of my Estate 
is to depend on these terms, why let them keep it, and the Devil help them 
with it.* .... From the account they have received of the discontent 
prevailing in our army, they had great expectations of drawing over to 
them a considerable number of our men. However they were disappointed. 
I think it would not be amiss to show this paragraph to some members of 
Congress, or if you like, may read it in Congress, As I believe it to be a 
true state of the case and I beleive the Genl. has not time to write. 

234. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia June 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive my Letter of this Date covering an Act 
of Congress of the 8th Instant authorizing you to advance 1,200,000 Dol- 
lars of the Continental Bills now in Circulation, or 30,000 Dollars of the 
new Bills emitted pursuant to the Act of Congress of the i8th of March 
last, to Colo. Corny the French Commissary, and take his receipt to pay 
the same in Specie.^ 

This Measure is adopted in Consequence of a Proposal from the Minis- 
ter of France, who seems desirous to aid and support our Paper Currency, 
and hath given Assurances that the Specie shall be duly paid. Although 

^ Cf. nos. 211, note 3, 226-230, aute, 234, 243, post. Bee took his seat in Congress 
June 6, and he probably brought the South Carolina and North Carolina letters men- 
tioned by Huntington June 5 (no. 217, ante). In A^. C. State Rccs. (XIV. 804) is a let- 
ter from Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke, dated Apr. 25, which was sent by the 
hand of Mr. Bee. If this date is correct Bee had lingered long in North Carolina. 

Under the date June 8 Holten recorded in his Diary, " It is said Charles'n was taken 
the i8th of May ". Under June 10 he recorded, " We have another account that Charles- 
ton surrendered the nth of May". He was doubtless in error in writing " nth", refer- 
ring to the same account of which Mathews speaks. 

* In a passage here omitted Mathews gives some account of the skirmish, June 6 
and 8, of which in part he was an eye-witness, comments upon the immediate results and 
the probabilities, and insists that the army must be immediately reinforced. 

[234]^ Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 266^; Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, XI. 266J/2. 

2 The official letter is in the Trumbull Papers, XI. 266, and in the President's 
Letter-Book, p. 23. Official letters of the same purport addressed to Luzerne and 
to Corny are ibid., pp. 21, 22. See also no. 216, ante. 



June, 1780 205 

no Rate of Exchange is mentioned yet I presume the Intention is, to re- 
ceive the new Bills at Par with Specie, or the Bills now in Circulation at 
forty for one. 

I am in Doubt whether the Monies are, or can be soon collected in Con- 
necticut, sufficient to enable your Excellency to comply with this applica- 
tion; should that be the Case, rather than the Minister should be disap- 
pointed, and his generous Proposal fail of Effect, I beg leave to suggest 
whether some Mode cannot be devised, for the Government of Connecti- 
cut to raise the Money on their own Account, or Individuals to advance it, 
and by such means to obtain the Advantage of the Specie. 

A Number of the new Bills are struck, and the first Parcel will be sent 
to Connecticut, and probably reach Hartford before this comes to hand. 
Treasurer Lawrence and his Son Roderick are appointed, either of them 
to endorse the new Bills on the Part of the United States. A Copy of their 
Appointment is herewith enclosed. 

Although we have no official Intelligence of the Surrender of Charles- 
town, yet I am sorry to inform you that from various Accounts it seems 
to be placed beyond a Doubt the Garrison capitulated the 12th Ulto, and 
were made Prisoners of War.^ 

235. Elbridge Gerry to Robert Morris.^ 

MoRRiSTOWN nth June 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

The distressed Situation of the Army, and the general State of publick 
affairs will, I trust, apologize for my addressing You at a Time when I 
have nothing very pleasing to offer. The present reduced State of the 
.Army and the Want of every Species of Supplies, together with the conse- 
quent Ravages and Insults of the Enemy, may be all traced to an exhausted 
Treasury, which must be immediately supplied, to enable our General to 
co-operate with the Forces that are daily expected from our good Ally. 
Taxes, you well know, are too slow in their Operations to effect this, 
domestick and foreign Loans are at present inadequate and the only pros- 
pect that remains is from the vigorous Exertions of the Citizens of these 
united States. Your Zeal and abilities in the Common Cause are well 
known to and acknowledged by all who have had the pleasure of your 
acquaintance, and these supported by your extensive Influence, may I con- 
ceive at this critical Juncture, produce the most salutary effect. 

What I mean to propose is an immediate association of the Merchants 
thro'out the united States to support the late Plan of Congress relative to 
Finance, and to promote amongst the Inhabitants of their respective Coun- 
ties, Cities and Towns a speedy and vigorous exertion to send into the re- 
spective loan offices, all the old continental Bills of Credit, and receive the 
Amount thereof in new Bills at the Exchange established by the Reso- 
lution of Congress, the Merchants of Philadelphia and Boston may I pre- 
sume do more to accomplish this, than the Legislatures of their respective 

3 See nos. 211, 212, 217, 21S, 226-230, 232-233, ante, 243, post. 
[235]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 5 (in part). 



206 Continental Congress 

States and by adopting the Measure may make it general thro'out the Con- 
tinent. I am well aware of your objections to that Plan, and was so fully 
in Sentiment with you, that previous to the passing thereof, being consulted 
by some Members of Congress, I freely gave them my Opinion, that it 
was inconsistent with the publick Faith, and ought not to be adopted ; but 
it is now an Act of Congress, is confirmed by several of the States, and is 
the only Measure by which we have any Prospects of immediate Supplies.^ 

The Advantages that may result from an Exertion on this Occasion 
will appear by considering, that every Dollar so exchanged will furnish 
another for reinforcing and supplying the Army ; that the Treasury may 
thus be immediately and amply supplyed ; and that the Arm.y may be 
speedily reinforced and furnished with Necessaries to co-operate with the 
Forces of our Ally. Should this be accomplished. We shall have the happy 
prospect of bringing our Enemies to reasonable Terms, and the War to a 
speedy conclusion, whilst the Confidence of our good Ally will be estab- 
lished, and other Powers be disposed to follow his Example, but on the 
other Hand, if the powerful Succours which are daily expected from 
France should be compelled by our Inability or Indolence to return dis- 
graced, will they not be so incensed, notwithstanding the good Will of 
their Sovereign and his Ministers towards us, as to be ever after irrecon- 
cileable to Americans? Will not an Alliance with Spain, if not previously 
adopted, be prevented? Will not the other Powers in Europe be so con- 
vinced of our Want of Resources, or Wisdom and Virtue to draw them 
forth, as to spurn and contemn Us? will not such as are friendly to G. 
Britain be encouraged to afiford her immediate Assistance? and will not 
the Cause of America be in the most imminent Danger, if not irretreiv- 
ably lost ? 

It gives me great Pain to hold up so disagreable a picture of our affairs, 
but my Duty to my Country obliges me to be explicit on this occasion, and 
I assure you" Sir, that I have not seen at any period, so fair a prospect by 
vigorous Exertions of establishing our Independence, or on the other 
Hand such dreadful Consequences as are to be apprehended from supine- 
ness, or feeble Efforts. In carrying thro' this Plan. You will undoubtedly 
have to oppose the weak and selfish Friends, as well as the secret and in- 
vidious Enemies of America, but I sincerely hope that You will see the 
Necessity of the Measure and at all Events support it. 

The Committee of Congress at Camp are earnestly desireous of carry- 
ing this Plan into Effect, and would have addressed the Merchants on this 
Occasion, did they not conceive that such a proceeding would be consid- 
ered as extra-official by the Legislatures of some of the States ; they have 
nevertheless expressly desired me to promote it in the eastern States, and 
his Excellency the General is also much in favour of it.^ .... 

- The act of Congress to which Gerry is referring is that of Mar. i8. The state- 
ment that he was consulted by members of Congress is explained by the fact that, although 
a member himself and remaining in Philadelphia, he had for several months refused to 
attend. See nos. 55, 59, 124, 137, oite. Respecting the proposed association of merchants 
see nos. 255, 259, 261, 264, 275, 281, post. 

3 Gerry had left Philadelphia June 3 (Holten's Diary) and was on his way to 
A'lassachusetts. In consultation with the committee at headquarters it was agreed that 



June, I/80 207 

236. The Committee at Headquarters to Elbridge Gerry/ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Morris Town, nth June, 1780. 
Sir, 

As you are on your journey to the state of Massachusetts Bay, We 
embrace the oppertunity and intreat you to give such information to the 
Executive powers of the Eastern States, respecting the distressed situ- 
ation of the Army, as you, from your own observations, and our com- 
munications, are enabled to afford. We are happy, Sir, to find your Sen- 
timents coincident with our own, on the necessity there is at this impor- 
tant and alarming conjuncture of the most strenuous exertions of the 
States. You have been an Eye witness to the distress of the Country, and 
the danger to which this Army was exposed in that critical moment when 
the enemy in superior force pointed their operations against it, much too 
weak to face them in the field with any prospect of effectual resistance, 
altho led by the bravest and best of men. You have seen our heavy Cannon 
and stores exposed to the most imminent danger because the means of 
removing them to places of security were not in our power, and had the 
Enemy pursued their object, it is more than probable the whole would have 
been lost : hence it is evident that not a moment ought to be lost in sending 
on the reinforcements which have been required. Indeed, Sir, the States 
are exposed to a most dreadful calamity from the reduced condition of 
the Army, and more especially so, as the british troops from Carolina are 
daily expected here. 

The plan you have proposed for an immediate supply of money appears 
to us the most elegible of any yet suggested, we think the most salutary 
consequences would result to the community if it was adopted. 

Your attention to the Welfare of your Country will, we are persuaded, 
induce you in every exertion, and your Character and abilities with these 
exertions will render emminent Service in this day of distress." 

£. — ^— 

he should visit the Eastern states and represent the situation of the army to the state 
authorities. In addition to the letter which the committee addressed to Gerry June 11, 
letters were written to the presidents or governors of the Eastern states advising them 
of the task which Gerry had undertaken to perform. The letter to the president of the 
Massachusetts council is in Mass. Arch., CCII. 255 ; to President Weare of New Hamp- 
shire, in N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers (M. H. S.) ; to Governor Trumbull, in Conn. 
State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XI. 270; copies of the two latter in Force 
Transcripts, Weare and Trumbull, respectively. On the same day (June ii) Peabody 
wrote personally to President Weare to the same effect (N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, 
" M. H. S."). Touching Gerry's representation to the council of Massachusetts, see his 
letter of July 3, Life of Gerry, I. 348. 

[236]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, f. 260 (copy), no. 39. vol. I., 
f- 59 (draft by Schuyler; at f. 99 is a draft in somewhat different terms, by Mathews). 
The letter is signed by Schuyler, Mathews, and Peabody. 

- On the same day the committee addressed a circular letter to the Eastern states 
(no. 237, post) respecting Gerry's mission. In the Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gush- 
ing, IV. 191-196) are five letters written from Hartford, June 20 and 21, by Adams and 
Gerry in pursuance of the task which Gerry had undertaken. One of the letters is to 
James Bowdoin, the other four are (two each) to Generals Fellows and Howe. 
18 



208 Continental Congress 

237. The Committee at Headquarters to the Eastern States/ 

In Committee of Congress 

MoRRiSTOWN nth June 1780. 
Sir, 

Since we had the honor to address you on the 2d instant, the Enemy- 
have come out in force, and pointed their operations to this Army. The 
Honble. Mr. Gerry has been so obliging, at our request, as to promise to 
call on you and to give you the particulars, and as he is well advised of the 
situation of affairs in this quarter from his own observations, as well as 
from information, he can afford you the most ample detail on the subject.^ 

238. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Morris Town, June 12, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your favor of the 6th instant covering acts of Congress of the 

are duly received.^ 

Should the enemy oblige our army to retire from its present position, 
it is not improbable that it must take post either beyond the Delaware, or 
in the highlands. If at the former, the enemy will undoubtedly attempt 
the reduction of the posts in the highlands. If at the latter, it will be re- 
duced to the greatest distress for the articles of flour, as in all probability 
supplies of that kind will be intercepted in their way to the Army. It is 
therefore of the first importance that an ample quantity should be without 
delay conveyed to New Windsor or King's ferry. The superior influence 
which Congress has beyond what the committee can be supposed to pos- 
sess in the states from whence flour only can be obtained, induces us to 
request that they will urge the necessity of hastening on whatever can be 
procured, and to provide carriages for the transportation. 

The enemy we are informed have this morning advanced from Eliza- 
beth point to the town — our Army continues to occupy the heights west 
of Springfield. 

[237]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., p. 41 (draft), no. il, 
f. 65 (letter-book copy) ; ibid., Force Trans., Weare, p. 170b, Force Trans., Trumbull, XI. 
270; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H, S.), XI. 270; Mass. Hist. Soc, 
C 81 A 171; Mass. Arch., CCII. 255; R. I. Recs., IX. 117. 

2 A notation on the draft and the copy in the committee's letter-book show that 
this letter, which bore the signatures of all three members of the committee, was sent to 
Governor Trumbull of Connecticut, Governor Greene of Rhode Island, the President 
of the Massachusetts council, and President Weare of New Hampshire. It was not num- 
bered among the circulars, as that of June 2 (no. 213, ante) is no. 3 and that of June 12 
(no. 239, post) is no. 4. 

[238]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 64 (draft by 
Schuyler, and signed by the three members), no. 11, f. 27. 

2 President Huntington's letter of June 6 merely transmitted " a Copy of the 
Report of a Committee appointed to receive the Communications from the Minister of 
France relating to Supplies etc., and the Resolutions of Congress of the 5th Instant conse- 
quent thereon ". 



June, 1780 209 

W'e have the honor to inclose your Excellency copy of our circular letter 
to the States of the 2d instant, with copy of one we have this day dis- 
patched, together with copies of the Generals letters referred to in those 
to the states. 

P. S. Since writing the above, the commander in chief had advised us, 
that whenever the British now in this State shall be reinforced by the 
troops from Carolina, which he momently expects to be advised of, he will 
in all probability be obliged to retire beyond the Delaware, and leave the 
fortresses in the highlands of New York to be defended as well as they 
may be by the present weak and inadequate garrison, as he has no prospect 
of supplying an additional number of troops at the post, for the want of 
flour. 

In the utmost distress to be reduced to this sad alternative, he has en- 
treated us to apply to the State of Pensylvania on the subject, we have 
accordingly addressed ourselves to Governor Reed, and also begged the 
favor of him to transmit copy of our letter to the Governors of Delaware 
and Maryland.^ Permit us. Sir, to request the intervention of Congress 
by seconding our application.* 

239. The Committee at Headquarters to the States from 

New Hampshire to Virginia.^ 

(Circular) 

In Committee of Congress 

f,. MoRRiSTOWN 1 2th June 1780. 

Sir, -^ 

We have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter addressed to us by 

the commander in chief.' The contents will advise you to what an alarm- 

3 See nos. 239-241, post. 

* This letter bears the following endorsements : " Letter from the Com'ee at head 
Quarters, June 12, 1780. Read 14. Referred to Air. Ellsworth, Mr. Livingston, Mr. Mat- 
lack [here another hand than Thomson's has inserted the words:] with W. Y. X. 
Supplies requested, i, Circular letter to States, June 2; 2, Supplies requested, June 2; 
3, Circular to States, June 12; 4, Genl. W. to Com'ee June 11 ; 5, do. to do. June 12." 

The committee to whom this letter was referred (June 14) brought in a report June 15, 
which resulted in an order " that a circular letter be written to each of the United 
States from New Hampshire to Maryland, inclusive, enforcing the circular letters from 
the committee at headquarters". The letter (with alterations) immmediately follows in 
the Journals. It is probable therefore that the draft of the letter (it was prepared by 
Robert R. Livingston, a member of the committee) was offered along with the report. 
The letter is an eloquent appeal ; indeed two passages must have been too eloquent or too 
pointedly critical of the states, for they were eliminated, a passage oflfered by Charles 
Thomson being substituted for one of them. Several texts of the circular exist. Of that 
sent to President Weare of New Hampshire a copy, from the original, then in possession 
of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia, is in possession of the Carnegie Institution ; 
that to Massachusetts is in Mass. Arch., CII. 265 ; that to Maryland in Md. Hist. Soc., 
Red Book, VII. 47. It was also recorded in the President's Letter-Book, p. 34. Printed 
texts are in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 515; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 325; Clinton Papers, 
V. 828; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 231. 

[239]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 43: Mass. Arch., CCII. 260; Conn. 
State Lib.. Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XII. 3; N. J. State Lib.;_Md. Hist. Soc., 
LXXXVII. 182: Library of Congress, Washington Papers (copy) ; ibid., Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 43 (draft by Schuyler), no. 39. vol. I., f. 62 (signed copy sent 
to Congress), no. 11, p. 65 (letter-book copy, "Circular No. 4"); Clinton Papers, V. 
813; R. I. State Recs., IX. 293; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 315: N. J. Rev. Corr.. p. 225. 

2 Washington's letter to the committee June 11 is in Writings, ed. Ford, VIIL 
310; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth ser., X. 173 (see his letter to Governor Trum- 



210 Continental Congress 

ing crisis our affairs are reduced. The General observes with great pro- 
priety that this committee " need no arguments to evince the danger ". 
Indeed w^e do not. Our own observations have led to the fullest convic- 
tion, that unless the force stated in our second letter of the 25 ulto. is 
drawn into the field, with a celerity equal to the urgency of the occasion, 
that the period which is to end our liberty and commence the most dis- 
graceful state of slavery which human nature has ever experienced, is not 
far distant ; but dark and gloomy as the prospect is, America has it in her 
power to dispel the cloud, by those exertions of which she is abundantly 
capable, and to which it is her duty to rouse from every consideration 
which can affect the human heart. We are most indubitably possessed of 
the means wherewith to expel the enemy from every part of the continent, 
but it requires a display of that virtue which distinguished the citizens of 
Rome, when their state was as ours now is, on the brink of ruin ; and we 
trust Americans impressed with a proper sense of the blessings of peace, 
liberty and independence, will follow the bright example and evince to 
future ages, what great minds are capable of, when driven to the extremity 
of distress. 

We dare not suppose Sir, that efficient measures have not been adopted 
by your state, to compleat your Battalions to the establishment recom- 
mended in the letter above referred to; on the contrary, we believe that 
the men are raised or raising, but we have to conjure you to hasten them 
on to the Army, without a moments delay. We intreat you likewise to 
give the most pointed direction, to induce an unremitting attention to for- 
ward the supplies alloted to your state to be furnished as specified in our 
letter of the 2d instant. 

Had the enemy on Wednesday last pursued what we generally believed 
to be their object, our heavy cannon and stores would inevitably have fallen 
into their hands, as our military force was incompetent to their protec- 
tion, and the means of conveying them to places more distant, for want of 
horses and carriages, out of our power. 

Since writing the above, a second letter from the General has been 
handed us, a copy whereof we inclose." Previous to our recommendation 
to compleat the Battalions to 504 rank and file, we had a conference with 
the General on the subject, in which the matter was thoroughly canvassed, 
and the necessity of the augmentation clearly evinced. The reduction of 
Charles Town was then [still]* problematical; we had even hopes that it 
would have been saved, and the Maryland and Delaware lines have re- 
turned to this Army, which then with the quota requested of the States 
would have amounted to about 25,000 men, the number which Congress 
had promised our illustrious ally, should be brought into the field to co- 
operate with his troops. It is now believed that Charlestown is reduced, 

bull, ibid., p. 171) ; Clinton Papers, V. 809 (see also his letter to Lieutenant Governor 
Van Cortlandt June 10, ibid., p. 806) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 312. Cj. his letter to 
Congress June 10, Writings (ed. Sparks). VII. 75. 

3 Washington's letter to the committee June 12 is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, 
fifth sen, X. 175; R. I. Recs.. IX. 118; Clinton Papers, V. 812; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 235 
(date June 19) ; and Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 314. 

•* This word and the word " certainly " farther on are not in the letter to New 
Hampshire but are found in other texts. 



June, 1780 211 

and the troops which defended it prisoners, consequently we shall [cer- 
tainly] not have the Maryland and Delaware troops, hence those in this 
quarter will be less by nearly three thousand men than our estimate. We 
therefore most earnestly intreat that no reduction may be made from the 
numbers we have stated as necessary.^ 

We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect and esteem 

Your most obedient hum'e Servts. 

Ph. Schuyler 
J NO. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody " 

240. The Committee at Headquarters to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

_. Morris Town, Tune 12th 1780. 

bir. 

We have the honor to Inclose your Excellency letters for the Governor 
of Rhode-Island, and the Presidents of Massachusetts-bay and Xew- 
Hampshire, which we beg the favor may be forwarded by Express. 

The Enemy still retain the position they took on Thursday last at Eliza- 
beth town point in this state — various are the conjectures on what they 
may have in contemplation, that which prevails most generally is a rapid 
movement to attempt our posts in the Highlands of New York, as soon 
as Sir Henry Clinton with the troops from Carolina arrives. It affords 
great satisfaction here to find that so considerable a quantity of salted meat 
from your state is on the point of arriving at the Highlands. The Com- 
mander in chief has Intreated us to press the states of Pensylvania, Dela- 
ware and Maryland for an Immediate supply of flour for that post, with- 
out which he conceives he shall not be in Condition to venture the army in 
that Quarter, even should the Garrison be Invested. If it is possible, we 
Intreat the aid of a thousand barrels from your state for that post and that 
It may be expedited thither. 

241. The Committee at Headquarters to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed).^ 

In Committee of Congress, 
<-.. Morris Town, June 12, 1780. 

It is with great satisfaction that we learn the Legislature of your State 
has invested your Excellency with ample powers to draw forth every re- 
source of the State at this interesting conjuncture. 

Since our letter of this date. The Commander in Chief has advised us, 
that in the present situation of our affairs should the British force return 

^ A special letter (no. 241, post) was addressed to President Reed of Penn- 
sylvania. 

® Some texts of this circular letter are signed by all three members of the com- 
mittee, some only by Schuyler as chairman of the committee. 

[240]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), vol. XII., pt. I., p. 4 (in the 
writing of Schuyler) ; Library of Congress, Force Trans., vol. XII., pt. I., p. 4- 

[24i]iN. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, VI.; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 87 (copy), no. 11, p. 199 (letter-book copy). 



212 Continental Congress 

from Carolina (which event must be hourly looked for) he cannot think 
of risking his Army at the post at West Point. The inevitable consequence 
of which must be the sacrifice of that small remains of an army, now be- 
come inadequate to any effectual resistance even against the present British 
force in this quarter, as there is not flour at that post even for the garri- 
son now there. Under these circumstances he must be under the necessity 
of abandoning that important post, to shift for itself, in the best manner 
they can, and he can have no alternative, but to affect his retreat across 
the Delaware. 

On a serious consideration of this distressed state of the Army, You 
must pardon our importunity Sir, when we call on you in the most urgent 
manner and conjure you as you value the welfare of the United States of 
America, to use your most strenious endeavours to procure without one 
moments loss of time, at least Ten Thousand Barrels of flour, and cause 
the same to be transported to Kings Ferry or New Windsor. It is on your 
state alone, in the present exigency of our affairs, that we must rely for 
support in this article. Your knowledge of the importance of that post, 
need[s] no comments on our part, how indespensibly necessary it is, that 
it should be preserved, not only as a safe retreat for our Army should they 
be so circumstanced, as to make it necessary, but also to keep open the 
communication between these, and the eastern States and for the preser- 
vation of this already too much distressed State. Should our present ap- 
plication not be attended with the desired affect, the consequences must 
in all human probability be fatal. ^ 

We have the honor to be with respect, 

Your Most Obt. Serv's ^ 

Ph. Schuyler 
J NO. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody 

242. Philip Schuyler to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Morristown, June 12, 1780. 
D'r Sir, 

The Enemy still retain the position they took on Thursday last at Eliza- 
beth Town Point; various are the conjectures on what operations they 
have in contemplation, the most prevalent is, a rapid movement to attempt 
our posts in the Highlands, as soon as they shall be reinforced by the 
troops from Carolina, which are hourly expected. The Commander in 
Chief apprehends it, and has intreated the Committee most earnestly to 
press the States of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland, for a supply 

2 See nos. 200, 238, ante, and no. 242, post. In the letter of June 12 to Congress 
it is stated that President Reed was requested to transmit copies of this letter to the 
governors of Maryland and Delaware. Cf. Reed to Governor Lee of Maryland June 16 
(Pa. Arch., VIII. 350), and the reply June 22 {ibid., p. 354, and Arch, of Md., XLIII. 
203). 

8 The subscription to this letter appears to have been restrained within the nar- 
rowest bounds required by politeness. See no. 240, ante. 
{2^2YClinton Papers, V. 815. 



June, 1/80 213 

of flour, without which he conceives it would be a dangerous manoevre 
to move the army to the Highlands, as they might risk being starved ; we 
have already forwarded dispatches to the Governors of the above men- 
tioned states and this conveyance carries one to Governor Trumbull on the 
same Subject." If your Excellency or the legislature can possibly procure 
a quantity of flour I intreat no time may be lost in forwarding it to the 
garrisson; permitt me also to suggest the necessity of holding the militia 
in readiness to reinforce the garrisson 

243. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia June 13, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the Act of Congress of this Day herewith enclosed your Excellency 
will be informed, that Genl Gates is ordered to take the Command in the 
Southern Department. 

This Order is in Consequence of Intelligence received via New York, 
that Charles Town surrendered the 12th Ulto, and the Garrison are made 
Prisoners. This Intelligence in Rivington's Paper containing the Articles 
of Capitulation, your Excellency must doubtless have received before this 
Time.^ 

244. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia June the 13th 1780. 
S'r, 

I inclose you two Resolves of Congress one of June the 2d the other of 
the 8th by which you will See what base been done with Regard to the 
newhampshire grants and the Several Claimants. I find a Very grate back- 
wardness in many of the members of Congress to Proseed on this buis- 
ness until the Conclusion of the war, and the members Continually Come- 
ing and going it is impossible to foresee what opinion Congress may be 
off three months hence with Regard to Puting a final end to these unhappy 
Disputes.^ 

P. S the inclosed Papers Contain all the intelligence of importance 

2 See nos. 238-241, ante. 

[243]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 26. 

2 See the Journals, June 13, 14, no. 229, ante, and no. 250, post. A similar letter 

was written to the governors of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 

President's Letter-Book, p. 28. 

Holten's Diary for the 12th, 13th, and 14th {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVL 93-94) has 

the following entries : " 12. It is said Charleston is taken by the enemy. 13 Gen. 

Ward arrived here this morning. 14. One of Gen. Lincoln's aids is arrived with the 
accounts of the surrender of Charlestown." See the Journals, June 15. 
[244]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 44. 

2 The second resolve is in the Journals under June 9. Cj. nos. 212, 218, 219, 221, 
232, ante, and no. 253, post. For the resumption of the Vermont question see the Journals, 
Sept. 12, and no. 435, note 2, post. 



214 Continental Congress 

245. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

June 13th, [1780.] 
As this will perhaps ' be the last letter I shall have the honor of writing 
your excellency in my official capacity, I hope to obtain the Governor's 
approbation that whilst alone and at the head of the Delegation to Con- 
gress I have done my part in making those representations and giving that 
Intelligence from time to time, which the executive ought constantly to be 
informed of. I do not recollect any one matter of importance that was 
omitted in my communications to your excellency — and I confess as an 
Individual that I felt a pride and pleasure in corresponding with a great 
character, exclusive of that sacred Duty which my honorable appointment 
demanded of me. 

The Enemy are still in the Jersey, not far from Elisabeth Town, and 
by a letter from Lord Stirling they are considerably reinforced. They 
have built a floating bridge to secure a retreat to Staten Island if necessary, 
two or three little battles have taken place, in which the militia fought 
well but have suffered greatly. I fancy the object of the Enemy was to 
try the force of General Washingtons regular Troops — unluckily by the 
experiment they find our illustrious commander unable to meet them with- 
out the aid of militia — and what next? I fear they will remain in the 
Jersey untill Clinton gets back from Charles Town, and then make a bold 
attempt upon the continental stores and army. I wish the french fleet and 
Troops were happily arrived. About fifty sail of merchantmen have got 
to this City within a few days past — by one of them the last night we are 
told that Barbadoes is taken, and probably by this time Antingua [sicl and 
Saint Kitts, but I cannot credit so hastily as some Gentlemen are disposed 
to do. 

[In margin:] I fear that clinton is returned in Triumph from Charles 
Town. 

246. John Walker to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Dear Sir, 

I hoped before I had been here so long, to have had the pleasure of a 
few lines from you, if it was merely to inform us of your health and that 
of your Family, in which you know we are so deeply interested. 

My Family is perfectly recovered from the small-pox, which to them 
was so favorable that they never lay'd by for it. Mrs. Walker had only 
two pustules and Milly one for each of the united States. We are com- 
fortably enough lodged and but for the exorbitant expences of the place, 
might do well enough. As there is no provision made by our State for 

[245]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

~ This letter has the appearance of being only a postscript to a letter, and of a 
subsequent date. The word " perhaps " stands above this first line and at the margin, 
as if it might be the last word of a preceding paragraph; it may however have been 
intended as an insertion at this point. See no. 231, ante. 

[246] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 



June, lySo 215 

furnishing us with the needful and the Continental Treasury is empty, our 
situation is disagreeable. I found one Man (Levi Hollingsworth) who 
agreed to advance me 10,000 dollars for which sum I have taken the Lib- 
erty of drawing on our Treasury and hope my Bill will be honored ; other- 
wise judge what will be our situation. W'e wish our State would fall on 
some expedient to furnish such supplys as may be intended for us. as we 
find it extremely difficult to get Cash here. 

Genl. Gates was this day appointed to take command in the Southern 
department. The further arrangements etc. for that Quarter are yet un- 
finished for want of the necessary information, having as yet rec'd no 
Accts. of our Misfortune there, but by way of New York. Is not this 
astonishing when Chas. Town is said to have surrendered on the 12th Ult? 

The inclosed paper will inform you of the Enemy's late incursions in 
New Jersey, which is the only news here. This and the neighbouring 
States are making the most vigorous exertions to oppose their operations. 
Pensylvania is about to fill up their Continental Line by subscription and 
I believe they will effect it, so great and laudable is their Zeal, The very 
Ladi[e]s contributing large sums on the inclosed plan, drawn up by the 
Minister of France's Secretary. 

Virginia's conduct in rejecting the scheme of March the iSth Appears 
to give as great uneasiness here, as the Loss of Chas. Town. I believe it 
is prety generally approved in the Eastern states and already adopted by 
most of them.- My Family desires to be affectionately remembered to 
Mrs. Jefferson and Miss Patsey 

And I am My dear Sir 

Your affectionate Friend and humble Servt. 

Jn. Walker 
Philada. June 13th 1780. 

247. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^,. Philadelphia June 13, 1780, 

Tho' we are yet without official Accounts respecting Charlestown, There 
scarce remains a doubt of its being taken, and that the Garrison surren- 
dered on terms the 12 of May. The Capitulation, published in New York 
is in this City, but I have not yet seen it to note the particulars it contains. 
General Gates is ordered to the Southward to take the Command. 

The Enemy remain in force at Elizabeth Town point — their object is 
yet unascertained. 

I have forwarded by the bearer 120,000 dollars of the new bills for 
Connecticut, and have more on hand to be forwarded in a few days. The 
State of New Jersey has also adopted the measure recommended the i8th 
of March. 

I beg leave to express my sincere condolance with your Excellency for 
the loss of Mrs. Trumbull. 

2 See nos. 264, 270, 285, post. 
[247]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), vol. XII., pt. I., p. 7; Library 
of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, vol. XII., pt. I., p. 7. 



216 Continental Congress 

248. Nathaniel Peabody to Nathaniel Folsom/ 
(-,. MoRRiSTOWN June 14th, 1780. 

Your favour of the 5th inst. has been duly reed. Am obhged to you for 
the information therein contain'd. Next the Great concern of the conti- 
nent, I am Anxious to know the fate of the Vermont affair. I beg you to 
urge the determination of that business, as it is my opinion every moments 
delay is dangerous. 

As to the money I will endeavour to See it Conveyed to New-Hampshire 
if you should not find an oportunity to send it Safe by the time it is ready 

The Enemy remains Nearly in the Same posision they have for Several 
days past, but as Genl. Schuyler who is obliging enough to take charge of 
this Letter, will be abundantly able to Give you Every information re- 
specting the two Armies. And I wish you to call on him for Information 
upon various Subjects of importance as we are in the most Critical Situa- 
tion. The Commander in Chief is under Embarrassments on account of 
Resolve of Congress Confining his operations to the thirteen U. States. 
I wish your influence to get the Error rectified. You will know it is a 
matter of vast importance to the Eastern States that we turn our Eyes 
toward Canada, Nova scotia, etc. I mean if we should be able to keep an 
Army in the field. It will [be] impossible for us to operate effectually in 
this Quarter, unless we Can, at least, point out objects to divide the Ene- 
mies force. This is a matter I could wish might be kept as Secret as 
possible.^ 

P. S. A Line from you as often as Convenient wou'd be agreeable. 



D'r Sir, 



249. Thomas Burke to Anthony Wayne. ^ 

Philadelphia June 15th 1780. 



.... I found, on examining the resolution I mentioned to you, that it 
was entered into on a particular Occasion of disputed rank, and Commis- 
sions ivere cancelled and renewed agreeably to the principle adopted. Had 
the affair Occurred in the winter, and a proper Scrutiny taken place, I am 
persuaded the principle would, and ought to have been applied to you; and 
your Commission would. Consequently, have been made out so as to give 
you the indisputable rank, but as that was not done, and the time at pres- 
ent would not admit of such disquisitions, I despaired of being able to fall 
on any mode that would satisfy your Just and delicate feelings, that for- 
bids your offering the least possible Shadow of Injury to those of others, 
or of reconciling the wishes of my self and my Colleagues with the Gen- 
eral, and more prevailing Considerations of public utility, we were there- 
fore obliged, reluctantly, to forego a favorite object." .... 

[248]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz. Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See no. 232, ante. The committee at headquarters brought the matter definitely 
before Congress in their letter of July 18 (no. 322, post). See also nos. 287, 353, 434, 
post. 

[249]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Wayne Papers. 

2 Burke is evidently replying to a letter from Wayne June 6, found in A^ C. State 
Recs., XIV. 840. 



June, lySo 217 

250. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. 15th June 1780. 
Dear General, 

Whilst I congratulate you on your present unanimous appointment to 
the Command of the southern department, I cannot be insensible of the 
projects before you and the many known and unknown difficulties you 
have to encounter. Let wisdom, patience, and fortitude from above carry 
you through. 

These two last days and part of the Nights I have been employed on 
your affair — As your first nomination (under the suden concern for the 
loss of Charlestown and State of that Country) seemed to import little 
else than hasty orders to March ; it's true a Committee was at the same 
time appointed to consider the number of troops to be drawn forth, in the 
first instance, but still you wanted money in order to proceed, as well as 
powers to call on these states for future supplys. for this I called on the 
board of \\3.r, who to do them justice cordially fell in with every thing 
and reported thereon such a sum for the journey, and other powers, as I 
hope will be agreeable to you, for the present, and Congress readily re- 
solv'd on the Report.' I have more privately pressed the Board of War 
to send also by the Express, one piece of Linnen, meaning the major part 
for yourself, and the residue for Major Armstrong this they thought 
was a little out of their v/ay, but gave me more than half a promise. The 
Major has not a shilling until he reach you to pay what debt he may be in, 
beside my keeping him in some pocket money these three months past; 
he will communicate to you what I have wrote him respecting Rank, 
any thing of this sort must now come thro' the Board of War.^ .... 

I am dear General with every cordial wish for your Conduct and 
happiness, 

Your truly Affectionate friend and humbl. servt. 

John Armstrong 

[P. S.] 

251. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson),'- 

Philadelphia June 16, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am honored with your Despatches under the 9th Instant, and have 
laid them before Congress. They are referred to the Board of War and 
Committee on the Post Office. Due Attention will be given to the several 
Matters contained in those Despatches.- . , , , 

[250]! N, Y, Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVI. 

2 See the Journals, June 13, 14, 17, 19. Cj. nos. 229, 243, ante, and no. 264, post. 
8 Cj. no. 317, post. 
[251]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 32. 

2 Jefiferson's letter of June 9 {Writings, ed. Ford, IL 304; Official Letters, IL 
125), pertaining chiefly to financial and military matters, but partly also to post-roads and 
difficulties of comunication, was read in Congress June 16. A letter of June 15 {ibid., p. 



218 Continental Congress 

252, The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the Minister to 
Spain (John Jay)/ 

Philadelphia, June 16, 1780. 
Sir: 

The embarrassments which the depreciation of the currency had cre- 
ated in the public affairs at the time of your departure for Europe were, 
as you may well remember, very distressing, and have till lately continued 
to increase. Congress, greatly anxious to avail themselves of every possi- 
ble means of checking this evil, on the 23d of November last ventured on 
the expedient of drawing bills upon you for one hundred thousand pounds 
sterling, as you have been already advised by letter of December the nth 
following." This they thought they might risk, considering the impor- 
tance of the object; but as the time of your arrival in Europe could not 
be counted upon with certainty, and as the negotiation might not be im- 
mediately practicable, and, moreover, as a disappointment would be highly 
injurious to the public faith, they determined to draw the bills at six 
months' sight, which we hope will allow sufficient leisure for every 
preparation. 

It will not be amiss to observe that Congress have not taken this meas- 
ure without some circumstances of encouragement that a fund to satisfy 
the draft would not be unattainable. Since the agreeable news of your 
arrival, and to answer a purpose of great national utility, Congress, by 
their resolution of the 19th instant,^ have directed bills to be drawn for 
the additional sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, payable at sixty days' 
sight. The exertions necessary at this crisis require the command of a 
considerable sum of money; but these drafts, we hope, will not be in- 
creased till we have intelligence from you respecting your prospects and 
assurances. We have the pleasure to inform you that from the measures 
which have lately been adopted, and with which you are made acquainted 
by the journals, the finances begin to assume a better appearance, and our 
public affairs in general will, we hope, be delivered from many of the em- 
barrassments under which they have labored, but we earnestly entreat you 
to push every possible exertion for procuring aids of money from the court 
of Spain, without which we are fearful the measures of Congress fully 
to restore the currency and prosecute the war with good effect will fall 
short of the desired success. 

129; Writings, p. 312), touching the request of Congress June 5, for the despatch of 
intelligence of the coming of the French fleet and making further suggestions respecting 
express lines, was read June 23 and referred to the committee on the post-office. Cf. his 
letter of June 28 (ibid., p. 313), read in Congress July 3. See, further, the Journals, 
June 29, 30, July 3. President Huntington transmitted with this letter the resolves of 
June 14 relative to General Gates. 

[252]! Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr.. III. 793 (signed by Lovell, Livingston, and Hous- 
ton) ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, f. 264 (letter-book copy). 

2 The letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 111. 424, although there given as to 
Henry Laurens. The letter-book (p. 264) shows that the letter was sent both to Laurens 
and to Jay. 

3 This should be of course 19th ultimo. See the Journals, May 19, 31. 



June, 1780 219 

253. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

^. Philadelphla., i6th June 1780. 

We do ourselves the honour to enclose the last resolution of Congress 
relative to the New Hampshire Grants. We sincerely wish it had been in 
our power to proceed at an earlier day, but an exparte hearing would have 
been of little use to us. And to have pushed it with too much warmth 
would have answered no other purpose than to expose us to the censure 
of wishing to take advantage of our antagonists, especially as New Hamp- 
shire which has hitherto gone with us, threw its whole weight against us." 

The loss of Charlestown, and the great scarcity of supplies has ren- 
dered our situation extremely critical, and calls for the utmost exertion. 
Congress have endeavoured to rouse this by every means in their power, 
particularly by a circular Letter which you will receive with this.^ We 
feel for the situation of our state, threatned on one side and actually in- 
vaded on another. We submit it to the judgment of the Legislature 
whether they should not continue sitting till the storm is overblown. 

We conceive that not a moment should be lost in sending forward the 
bill for the adoption of the resolution .of Congress of the 18 of March last 
as considerable advantage may be derived both to the state and the conti- 
nent from the sums that may be procured by the exchange of their bills. 
And as the preparing them is a matter which will take some time, and 
those who send on their laws are to have the preferance, expedition be- 
comes an object of some moment.* 

We have no account from the southward of the enimies having yet em- 
barked any part of their force ; they have detached a body of them as far 
as Georgetown. The j:>eople of South Carolina will give them little oppo- 
sition, tho' we have great hopes that the approach of the enemy will rouse 
N. Carolina to the exertions of which she is fully capable. We forgot to 
mention, that it would be proper to send up with our law, the name of 
some person who is to sign on the part of Congress, that we may recom- 
mend him so that no time may be lost on that account. This we presume 
will be the Loan officer but it may be well to have a second in case of 
accidents. 

P. S. The Secretary informs us that the Resolutions above refered to 
are already dispatched. 

His Excellency, Gov'r Clinton ; to be opened in his absence by the Hon'ble 
P. Van Courtland. Esqr., Leiut. Govr. 

[253]^ Clinton Papers, V. 837 (signed by Livingston. Scott, and Duane). 

2 See the Jcnirnals, June 9, and nos. 212, 218, 2ig, 221, 232, 244, ante, 399, post. 
For the resumption of the Vermont afifair see the Journals, Sept. 12, and no. 435, note 2, 
post. 

^ The circular letter of June 15. which was prepared by Livingston. Besides the 
corrected draft found in the .Journals, there are several printed texts of the letter {e. g., 
R. I. State Recs., IX. 200; Clinton Papers. V. 828: Pa. Arch., first ser.. VIIL 325; 
Arch, of Md., XLIIL 515), and numerous manuscript texts as addressed to the differ- 
ent states. 

* See nos. 270, 285, 314, post. 



220 Continental Congress 

254. A Committee of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Q . Philadelphia i6th June 1780. 

On conversing with the Minister of France upon the state of the ports 
in the highlands, he has very obHgingly proposed that you should apply 
to their use such salt-provisions (consisting of about 500 barrels of pork) 
as Govr. Trumbul has procured on his account, the continent undertaking 
for the repayment. 

We would wish you to avoid drawing for this unless you conceive it 
cannot be procured in convenient time elsewhere. If you should find it 
necessary to avail yourselves of this supply, you will be pleased to give 
the earliest advice of it to the Minister of France that he may concur with 
you in endeavouring to replace it.' 

\\t are Gent. 

Robt. R. Livingston 



Oliv'r Ellsworth 
Jos. Jones 



To the Honble. Philip Schuyler Esqr. 

and the Gent, of the com : at headquart'rs. 



255. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.^ 

n o- Philadelphia i6th Tune 1780. 

IJeor Sir, j / 

.... A few days ago Mr. Meredith and Grason - being at table with 
us we went largely into the state of our supplies, when I happened to drop 
a wish that the Merchants of this place would undertake a temporary sup- 
ply upon their own credit Congress count on securing them. Grason 
pushed it, Meredith embraced it, and upon its being broke to the Merchants 
they appointed a committee to consider the proposition and I imagine upon 
good ground, that they will undertake for four millions of rations should 
this go thro' it may not only help to relieve our present necessities but put 
matters in such a train as we may find it convenient to keep them in.^ 

[254]! Papers Cont. Cong., no. 30, vol. II., f. 116 (in the writing of Livingston; auto- 
graphic signatures), no. il, p. 14 (letter-book copy). 

- This committee was appointed May 17, on a memorial of the minister of 
France. See also the Journals, May 20, when the committee was authorized to collect 
intelligence desired by the minister and " to establish correspondences with the governors " 
and others, and their report May 27. On the same day that this letter was written 
Luzerne wrote to Governor Trumbull asking that he hold at the disposition of the com- 
mittee at camp and deliver to their order the 400 to 500 barrels of pork which he had 
purchased on French account, remarking, " Des besoins particuliers rendront problement 
ces subsistances necessaires a Votre Armee ". In that case he said, the committee will 
make use of them. He further asked Governor Trumbull to replace them as soon as may 
be with new provisions, together with the other quantities ordered. Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, vol. XIL, pt. IL, p. 16. 

[255]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1260; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler 
Papers, no. 795 (copy). 

2 Reese Meredith (?), a merchant of Philadelphia, and Col. William Grayson, a 
member of the board of war. 

3 Cf. no. 235, ante, and nos. 250, 261, 264, 275, 281, post. Concerning the estab- 
lishment of a bank as a part of the project see the Journals, June 21. 22. 



June, I /So 221 

256. James Henry to George Washington/ 

Philada. June i6th 1780, 
Sir, 

Permit me to intrude upon your more important Avocations for a mo- 
ment, and to inclose to you a Copy of a letter from Col. Buford to the 
Virga. Assembly, which your Friend Col. B. Harrison has requested me 
to forward to you." 

I wish I could send you better tidings ; but 'tis necessary to know the 
danger, to enable us to make more effectual preparations to avert it. With 
every wish for your Safety and Success, I beg leave to subscribe myself Sir 

Your most obedt. Servt. 

Jas. Henry 

257. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town, i6th June, 1780. 
Sir, 

Since General Schuyler's departure for Philadelphia, to lay before Con- 
gress the arrangement of the quarter master general's department," we 
have received a letter from General Greene, of the 14th instant, on the 
subject, a copy of which we inclose.^ 

[256]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The letter from Col. Abraham Buford is dated May 26 and conveys news from 
Charleston. On May 29 Buford's regiment was cut to pieces at Waxhaw, South Carolina 
(Official Letters of the Governor of Virginia, II. 87 n.). See also no. 261, post. Henry's 
letter is endorsed, " answd 29 ". 

[257]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 79 (signed by 
Mathews and Peabody), no. 39, vol. III., f. 78 (copy), no. li, p. 27 (letter-book copy). 

2 The arrangement proposed by the committee was presented by Schuyler June 
17. See no. 258, post. This letter was read June 19. 

3 Although Schuyler had taken with him and presented with his report a copy 
of a letter from Washington, June 13 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 82; draft 
in Washington Papers), the committee also, according to the endorsement on this letter, 
transmitted a copy. Greene's letter to the committee, June 14, discussed in particular 
the question of fixing the salaries of the military staff, insisting that the committee, 
"who have it in their power to learn the different duties and responsibilities of the 
several denominations of officers ", should fix these salaries and not merely refer the 
matter to Congress. He added : 

" I have already informed the Committee that I was ready to serve my Country in any 
capacity w-here I could be most useful, not injurious to my standing in the army; pro- 
viding the business was put upon such a footing, as to enable me to do what was expected 
of me ; and that I would do this without fee or reward, all my expences being paid. 
But unless the business is put upon a footing which will enable me to employ suitable 
characters, and men on whom I can depend for support, the mines of Peru would not^ 
induce me to take further charge of the Department At the same time the com- 
mittee reports the new arrangement, I expect they will also give their sentiments upon 
my past conduct, and the order and management of the business as far as has come to 
their knowledge, that I may know in what point of light I stand." 
He also touches upon the mooted question of the committee's powers : 
" I beg the Committee to consider the critical situation of our affairs, the danger of 
procrastinating so necessary an arrangement, and who will be responsible, should any 
fatal consequences follow from it. Delicacy with respect to powers would undoubtedly 
be a prudent measure when a delay could produce no injur>'; but when every thing 
depends upon the present moment, refined distinctions may be laid aside. 



222 Continental Congress 

258. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress/ 

Philadelphia June 17th 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to Inclose Your Excellency the draft of a System 
agreed upon by the Committee with the army for conducting the Quarter 
Master Generals department, together with copy of a letter from the Com- 
mander In Chief on the Subject : The amendment to the Committees 
original draft which the general has taken notice of In his letter will be 
found in the i8th page of the Copy." 

The Committee was perfectly In Sentiment with the General on the 
necessity of putting the department In full activity without the least delay, 
and would have ventured on It without a referrence to Congress had they 
conceived themselves authorized to have determined on the pay to the 
officers. The system for the Commissary Generals department has been 
prepared some time since, and would have been transmitted to Congress 
but that the Committee wished for a previous conference with Colo : 
Blaine, who was expected at Head Quarters by the first of this month but 
has not appeared. 

Yesterday I had the honor of a conference with both branches of the 
New Jersey legislature on the Subject of Supplies. They Inform me that 
the state is nearly exhausted of the article of flour — that they will however 
make every exertion to procure what can still be spared. They have en- 
gaged to take Immediate Measures for the transportation of seventeen 
hundred Barrels of flour to West point and the Army, which has been 
detained at Trenton for want of carriages. 

259. John Walker to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Dear Sir, 

Your favr. of the 9th Ult : I reed, with pleasure, and shall always be 
glad to hear from you when leisure and Inclination occur. 

" Ruin seems to be threatning us on every side, and the different Legislators impressed 
with the Idea, are granting dictatorial powers to the executive authorities ; and will it 
not be dangerous to the honor and standing of the Committee to excuse themselves from 
so important a matter from an apprehension that their powers are incompetent? If 
the Congress shall think they are. they will say so ; but if not, they will confirm their 
doings." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 291 (original), no. 39, vol. I., f. 80, and 
no. II, p. 234 (copies). See no. 232, note 2, ante. 

[258] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, f. 527. 

- Schujier had returned from headquarters expressly to present the committee's 
plan for the reorganization of the quartermaster-general's department (see no. 257, ante). 
The devising of this plan was one of the principal tasks assigned to the committee by 
their instructions of Apr. 12. For proceedings upon it see the Journals, June 17, 19, 30, 
July 5, 12, 15. The plan, with amendments, is under the latter date. The original report 
is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 22, f. 193; a draft is ibid., no. 39, vol. II.. ff. 1-50 (plus) ; a 
copy is in the committee's letter-book, ibid., no. 11, pp. 294-302. Following the text in 
the letter-book is this notation : 

" N. B. The foregoing system for conducting the quarter master generals department 
was agreed to at Morristown 13th of July [Junel 1780, and committed to the charge of 
General Schuyler, in order to be laid before Congress for approbation, and that the 
allowance to be made for services of the respective officers might be ascertained." Cf. nos. 
128, 257, ante, 283, note 4, 317, 330, post. 

[259]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 



June, 1/80 223 

For business I refer you to our public Letter. The propositions con- 
tained in yours to the President, will I doubt not, be immediately comply 'd 
with." Business in Congress goes on better than I expected, each Member 
appearing willing to contribute all in his powder to the good of the whole. 
This State is making exertions worthy of imitation. The Merchants have 
lately subscribed a sum, which is thought sufficient to fill up their Con- 
tinental Line, and have moreover advanced £200,000 sterling upon Loan, 
to supply the Army with provisions in which they have lately been very 
deficient for want of Cash. This Patriotic fire 'tis to be hoped will spread 
both North and South. ^ .... 

Philada. June 17th 1780. 

260. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, June i8th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honoured with your Excellency's two letters by Brown, with 
the Act of Assembly requesting the monies advanced to forward provi- 
sions in the Quartermaster's department might be reimbursed, which was 
readily complied with ; Mr Ellsworth will forward the warrant by Brown, 
agreable to your Excellency's desire. 

The other matter respecting the payment of debts due for beef in the 
Commissaries department is attended with more difficulty, the perplexing 
difficulty is want of money. Your letter on that subject is refer'd to a 
Special Committee, who have not reported. I hope the result of their 
report may in some measure answer the purpose.' 

Congress have appointed Commissioners wath proper powers from the 
Board of Treasury, to repair to different States as occasion may require, 
and, in conjunction with others to be appointed by the Supreme Executive 
of such States, to settle accounts.^ 

I have long been of opinion this mode was necessary and am happy to 
see it adopted; hope that some one or more of the Commissioners may be 
soon ordered to Connecticutt to settle accounts in the late Commissary 
Wadsworth's department and others that may be properly setled there. 



P. S. Mr. Sherman arriv'd last night. 

- See no. 251, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 255, ante, and nos. 261, 264, 275, 281, post. 
[260]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 53. 

2 Both of Trumbull's letters were read in Congress June 15. The one respecting 
debts due for beef is found in Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, HI. 50. The 
committee's report upon it was brought in June 19. 

2 See the Journals, June 12, 16; also Trumbull's reply to this letter, July 10, in 
Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 57, and no. 331, post. 

19 



224 Continental Congress 

261. Philip Schuyler to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia June i8th 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... On my arrival here " I waited on Mr. President Reed and en- 
tered into a full and minute discussion of our afifairs, and decidedly de- 
clared, that unless the States paid stricter attention to the requisitions 
of Congress than had hitherto been done by any of them, and furnished 
the supplies allotted to them to provide that the contest could not be main- 
tained, that disgrace and ruin must Ensue, he appeared alarmed, prom- 
ised Every thing should be done that depended on him, but I could not 
draw forth any assurances that the requisitions made from this State 
would be complied with. Indeed I fear we shall not receive them, I mean 
thro the authority of the state. ^ The Merchants are however roused. 
Mr. Robert Morris is at the head of an Association for the purpose of 
furnishing the army with three Millions of rations, for which the public 
is to reimburse them as soon as their finances will admit.'' They have yes- 
terday sent on five hundred barrels of Flour which is to be transported 
by carriages to be hired by Mr. Meredith and another Gentleman from 
Trenton to Kings Ferry or Windsor. Reflecting how Exceedingly your 
Excellency is pressed with business I have taken the liberty to advise the 
board of war to desire Gen: Howe to keep a number of boats constantly 
at Kings Ferry to convey the flour from thence as fast as It arrives, and 
that the Officer commanding at that post should turn the carriages by 
Kingwood to Windsor If the approach of an Enemy should render the 
rout to Kings ferry unsafe. 

Congress who are eternally penelopyzing have directed that no Corn 
should be sent to this Quarter from Virginia, unless the Governor of that 
state judges that It can be spared from the Southern army. I have observed 
to the Virginia Gentlemen now here that In the present scarcity of for- 
rage to the Northward, and which will Increase until the Rye harvest. It 
will be Impracticable to put any considerable army In motion, unless Vir- 
ginia sends us Sixty thousand Bushells. they have promised to recom- 
mend It to Governor Jefiferson. 

Gen : Gates is directed by Congress to take the Command to the South- 
ward. The Enemy have penetrated Into North Carolina where they fell 
on Colo : Beaufort ^ with the remainder of the Virginia Line which they 
have dispersed or cut to pieces, a[d]vices say only Seven have Escaped of 
which the Colonel is one. The Militia were collecting in Virginia and 
North Carolina and moving on to Join Gen : De Kalb. 

Permitt me to Intreat the favor of one of the Gentlemen to forward 
the Inclosed. I beg my respects to all of them. 

[261]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 258, note 2, ante. 

3 See nos. 200, note 2, 213, 241, ante, 311, 313, post. 

* See nos. 235, 255, 259, ante, and nos. 264, 275, 281, post; also Washington to 
Congress July 10 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 336), and Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 3Si. 
384, 471, 704. 

5 Col. Abraham Buford. See no. 256, ante. 



June, 1780 225 

262. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 

( \ V I L LI A M GrEE N E ) . ^ 

Philadelphia June i8th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I flatter myself your Excellency met the General Assembly pos- 
sessed with every sentiment necessary for carrying into immediate execu- 
tion every requisition of Congress and their Committee at Head Quarters. 
How far they have adopted them I wish to be informed." It is agreed on 
all hands the whole state of So Carolina hath submited to British Govern- 
ment as well as Georgia. And I shall not be surprized to hear N. Carolina 
hath followed their example. In a word we have but little to expect South 
of Mariland, the once patriotick state of Virginia weighs but littel at pres- 
ent in the scale of Defence, Or furnishing of men or Supplies, her whole 
attention is ingrosed in making sale of her out lands. 

The little state of Rhode Island hath loaned more money to the Con- 
tinent then every state south of this, which will I apprehand cause a great 
difficulty in liquadateing the Loan office Certificates. I have moved in Con- 
gress for a warrant in favour of the state for the money due on the state 
accompt. It is refered to the Treasury Board, they have not reported and 
I fear they will not soon.^ The demands on the Continental Treasury is 
Twenty times as much as they at present can pay. But you may rest asured 
nothing on my part shall be left undone to obtain the warrant. At the same 
time as a Friend to and a member of the state I must beg they will pay no 
more money on Continental accompt then is absolutely necessary for the 
salvation of the Country. I foresee so many unthought of difficulties in 
the settlement of those Accompts that I fear the state will be a great suf- 
ferer in what is paid already. It is impossible for Congress at present to 
enter upon Comercial affairs therefore I have made no Motion in conse- 
quence of the Instruction I receivd from the Council of War,'' but I find 
that by the desire of Congress our Minister at the Court [of] France had 
the nth and 12th articles of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce ex- 
punged ; and Both Nations left to lay what duties they pleased, for which 
we may thank our Breathern in the Southern states The different policy 
of the several states, and too many of them turning all their views to 
their own advantage : without consulting the Common good. Cause some 

[262] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 47; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 294. 

- Cornell had written to Governor Greene from Morristown, N. J. (Washington's 
headquarters). May 30, when, as he expressed it, "the fate of these United States is 
pregnant with the most alarming events that ever attended them since the commencement 
of this unnatural war ". In this letter he set forth the desperate situation of the army, 
not only as stated by General Washington, General Greene, and the committee at head- 
quarters, but as confirmed by his own observations of three days, and declared that " noth- 
ing can save us from destruction but a spirited exertion in the several states, drawing 
forth the resources of the country, for which I cannot doubt the State of Rhode Island 
is making her utmost efforts". Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 292; R. I. Recs., IX. 113. 

3 See nos. 281, 289, 298, 341, 366, 382, post. 

* The council of war was a body exercising the executive powers during the 
recess of the assembly. For its appointment and powers see R. I. Recs., IX, 68, 72. The 
instructions to Cornell have not been found ; but see Governor Greene to Ellery Afay 30, 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 294. 



226 Continental Congress 

able Politicians to think that our Political Salvation, in a great measure 
depends on a controuling power, over the whole, being lodged in some per- 
son or persons. I wish to have your Excellencys Sentiments upon this 
subject, before the matter is taken up in Congress which I think will be 
soon, as the Union is too much disolved in some of our Sister States, 
whatever [your] sentiments may be will be my line of Conduct I fear 
the ability of the state to carry the sever [al requijsitions into execution. 
I hope nothing will be [neglected] that is probable. You may rest asured 
if our Indep[endence] is established n. England must do their full pro- 
port [ion,] as there is not that uninimity in the southern states, th[at I 
cou]ld wish 

263. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia June 19, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

You will receive enclosed a Letter from Ebenezer Hazard, which Con- 
gress have referred to the Committee at Head Quarters. 

It has been suggested by some that an Head Quarter Post master is 
unnecessary, that all Letters for Head Quarters might be left in the Quar- 
ter Master Generals Office, and the Expence of a Post master at Head 
Quarters wholly saved. Every one sees the Necessity of retrenching 
Expences as far as possible 

You Gentlemen will be under proper Advantage to judge what is neces- 
sary and best to be done in this Matter which is referred to you." 

264. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

[June 19, 1780.]^ 
Dear S'r, 

I have your favour of the 31st ult.^ in answer to my several letters and 
was then impressed with and still feel great anxiety on account of our 

[263]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 117, no. 11, p. 114; 
ibid., President's Letter-book, p. 36. 

2 See the Journals. June 16. Hazard's letter, dated at Morristown June 7 and 
addressed to Richard Bache, Postmaster General at Philadelphia (Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 39, vol. II., f. 118; no. 11, p. 15, letter-book copy), mentions the application of 
Mr. [John Durham] Alvey for the appointment. Alvey does not appear to have received 
the appointment at this time, but subsequently served as postmaster to the main army by 
appointment of the Postmaster General. See the Journals, Feb. 14, 19, 22,, Mar. 11, 1782; 
Apr. 4, 29, 30, 1783. He resigned Mar. 8, 1783 (Washington Papers). 

The address at the head of the letter-book copy is, " The Honble Philip Schuyler. 
John Mathews and Nathl. Peabody Esqrs Committee at Head Quarters ". Schuyler was 
at this time in Congress, having returned June 17 to lay before Congress the committee's 
proposals relative to the department of quartermaster-general, etc. See no. 258, ante. 

[264]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
II. 476; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 12. 

2 The letter is undated, but that the date June 19, which is found in the printed 
text of Letters to Washington, is approximately correct is indicated by several items in 
the contents. 

3 Washington's letter to Jones Alay 31 is in Writings (ed. Ford), \TII. 304. 
(ed. Sparks), VII. 67. Following is the part which particularly inspired Jones's remarks: 



June, 1780 227 

public affairs. The present distress is to be ascribed in great part to the 
resolution not to issue any more Bills of Credit before a sufficiency of 
money was provided and supplies secured for the Army had proper pre- 
caution been taken in these matters, and the new scheme of Finance been 
ready for the public consideration, the determination not to increase the 
quantity of money and the alteration introduced by the new system would 
not have been so sensibly felt or occasioned the distress in the several De- 
partments they have produced, from these I think we are nearly emerging 
as the new money is coming into use in the several States and will prob- 
ably greatly relieve us. But by those and several other proceedings Con- 
gress have been gradually surrendering or throwing upon the several 
States the exercise of powers they should have retained and to their ut- 
most have exercised themselves, untill at length they have scarce a power 
left but such as concerns foreign transactions, for as to the Army the Con- 
gress is at present little more than the medium through which the wants 
of the Army are conveyed to the States. This Body never had or at least 
in few instances have exercised powers adequate to the purposes of War 
and such as they had, have been from embarrassment and difficulties frit- 
tered away to the States and it will be found I fear very difficult to recover 
them. A resolution passed the other day desiring the States to inform us 
what they had done upon certain requisitions for some time past that we 
might know what we had to rely on. This may probably serve as a Basis 
for assuming powers should the answers afford an opening.^ other reso- 
lutions are now before us. By one of them the States are desired to give 
express powers for calling forth Men provisions money for carrying on 
the War for the common defence, others go to the assumption of them 
imediately. the first I have no doubt will pass this Body but will I expect 
sleep with the States, the others I believe will dye where they are ^ for 
so cautious are some of offending the States in this respect a Gentleman 
the other day plainly told us, upon a proposition to order some armed 
vessels to search the vessels going out to prevent the exportation of Flour, 

" Certain I am, unless Congress speak in a more decisive lone, unless they are invested 
with powers by the several States competent to the great purposes of war, or assume 
them as matter of right, and they and the States respectively act with more energy than 
they hitherto have done, that our cause is lost. We can no longer drudge on in the old 
way. By ill timing the adoption of measures, by delays in the execution of them, or by 
unwarrantable jealousies, we incur enormous expenses and derive no benefit from them. 
One State will comply with a requisition of Congress ; another neglects to do it ; a third 
executes it by halves; and all differ either in the manner, the matter, or so much in point 
of time, that we are always working up hill ; and, while such a system as the present 
one or rather want of one prevails, we shall ever be unable to apply our strength or 
resources to any advantage. 

" This, m.y dear Sir, is plain language to a member of Congress : but it is the language 
of truth and friendship. It is the result of long thinking, close application, and strict 
observation. I see one head gradually changing into thirteen. I see one army branching 
into thirteen, which, instead of looking up to Congress as the supreme controlling power 
of the United States, are considering themselves as dependent on their respective States. 
In a word, I see the powers of Congress declining too fast for the consideration and 
respect, which are due to them as the great representative body of America, and I am 
fearful of the consequences." 

* See the Journals, June 17; cj. ibid., June 21, 2^, and no. 272, post. 

^ See the Journals, June 21, 22; also no. 262, ante, and no. 469, note 6, post. 



228 Continental Congress 

that if an Embargo was laid in the Deleware as in this State he consented 
to the measure, otherwise he never would agree to such exercise of power. 
The Merchant Bankers in this City are making generous exertions to 
procure and send forward to the Army a supply of Flour and will afford 
us great help in that article.^ The Massachusetts Delegates read us Letters 
whereby it appears their State have raised 4000 Men for the Army and 
are embodying 4000 more to be ready if wanting/ Gates Weedon and 
Morgan are ordered to the Southern Department. 5000 Militia are re- 
quired from Virginia to join that Army and 3000 to be held in readiness, 
from N. Carolina, 4000 and two thousand to be held in readiness.^ 2500 
of the Virginia Militia were to march yesterday, by our accounts it 
would seem that [those] States are somewhat roused from their slumber, 
but have rejected the scheme of Finance of the i8th March last wh. I fear 
will have a bad effect on the Credit of the money of the other States that 
have agreed to the measure.^ Governor Jefferson has transmitted us a 
State of the Virginia Troops taken from the last returns by wh. it appears 
we have in the different Corps 4000 men in service to the 30th Sept. and 
for the War or longer period than the 30th Sept. next, including those 
captured in Charles Town. This surprises me but the fact appears to be so 
and where they are or what is become of them is strange. I cannot inform 
you whether our Legislature have ordered a Draft to fill up the deficien- 
cies as we have no Mail this week from the Southward it stoping at An- 
napolis for want of a Rider to bring it to this place, the late rider having 
quited the Business.^" with great esteem I am D'r S'r 

Yr. obt. hum : servt. 

Jos. Jones. 

265. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia June 19th, 1780. 
S'r, 

I received your letter of the 27th of May the day before yesterday, and 
this day laid the same before Congress, it was referred to a Committee 
who are to report thereon. 

Although the requisition was by Several of the members in the Course 
of the debate allowed to be just, yet all but the delegates of Massachusetts 
Bay opposed it being granted at Present on account of the Critical situa- 
tion we are in for want of money to feed the army. I urged that by a 
resolution of Congress Massachusetts Bay had been allowed to Retain two 
millions of their quota of taxes on account of the Penobscot exj^edition, 
and that the same line of Conduct ought to be observed with regard to us 

'^ Cf. nos. 235, 255, 259, 261, ante, and nos. 275, 281, post; also Reed to Washing- 
ton June 20, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 479. 

■^ The Journals do not mention the reading of these letters. 
^ See the Journals, June 13, 16, 17 ; cf. nos. 243, 250, ante. 
" See no. 246, ante, and nos. 270, 285, 288, 289, 310, 314, post. 
10 See no. 251, note 2, a7ite, and Jefferson to Washington June 11 (IVi-itings, ed. 
Ford, II. 308; Official Letters, II. 127). 

[265]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers. VIII. 50. 



June, 1780 229 

as to them, but the minds of Congress are so intirely occupied with the 
distresses of the army, as to render them inattentive to the Voice of reason 
and justice, and therefore it will bee some time I fear before any thing 
will bee done to effect." .... 

In the Course of the next week I expect to procure our quota of the new 
emission of money to be forwarded to Hartford in Connecticut by Oliver 
Ellsworth Esqr. who lives in Hartford and is a delegate of that State, and 
if I Can will agree with him to transmit it from thence to our State.^ 



266. The Committee at Headquarters to the States from 
New Hampshire to Virginia.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town June 19th 1780. 
Sir, 

We inclose you a Copy of Genl. Washingtons letter to us of this day.^ 
We have in our former letters dwelt so forcibly on the several matters 
contained in the Generals letter that it is now become almost unnecessary 
for us to say any thing more on them. 

But when we Consider the season for operating wears fast away, the 
small force we now have in the field being still fed in a scanty and uncer- 
tain manner, The hourly expectation of the fleet and Army of our Ally 
on our Coast, And that the Commander in Chief, as well as ourselves, are 
as yet totally uninform'd what are to be our expectations on the subjects 
of our former letters — Be assured Sir we feel an Anxiety Congenial with 
his. You will therefore pardon us for being thus Solicitous when we again 
entreat you in the most earnest, in the most urgent manner to use every 
exertion in your power to ingage your State, to a Speedy and desicive 
complyance with our former requisitions. The two points we wou'd wish 

2 See the Journals, June 19, 23, and no. 282, post. 

^ See nos. 282, 286, post. The endorsement on this letter shows that it was received 
Jub' 7. 

[266] IN. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 52; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 49 (copy), no. ii, p. 67 (letter-book copy, " Circular No. s") '> 
ibid.. Force Trans., Trumbull, XII. 25; Md. Hist. Soc., Brown Book, V. 41; Mass. 
Arch., ecu. 275; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), XIL 25; N. J. State 
Lib.; Arch, of Md., XLIII. 517, ibid.. XLV. 180; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 337; N. J. 
Rev. Corr., p. 233; Clinton Papers, V. 855. There are small variations in the texts. 

2 Washington's letter to the committee, June 19, is in Writings (ed. Sparks). 
VII. 80, (ed. Ford), VIII. 3i6n.; Clinton Papers, V. 856; A^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 236 
(dated June 20) ; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 338. To President Reed he wrote on the 
same day, " Our stores and baggage in this State are almost at the mercy of the enemy 
if they advance in force ", and besought him to take measures for furnishing 250 teams, 
as expeditiously as they could be collected, for the removal of the stores. Under the 
direction on this letter is the following : " The Express, the bearer of this, is to ride 
night and day and should he be in want of a fresh horse all Q. M'rs and other well 
wishers to the independence of America are hereby requested to furnish him with such 
horses as will answer the purpose of forwarding this letter. By order of the Commander 
in Chief. [Signed] Benj'n Brown, Ass. D. Q. M. G. " {ibid., p. 339). Brown was serving 
as assistant secretary to the committee at headquarters (see no. 208, note 2, ante). 
Reed's reply, June 22, is in Life of Reed, II. 215. See also General Knox to Reed June 
22, 27, Reed to the delegates June 23, and Washington to Reed June 25 (Pa. Arch., first 
sen, VIII. pp. 349, 359, 351, 361, respectively). 



230 Continental Congress 

to press most forcibly on yours and the minds of the Legislature of your 
State are immediately forwarding Your Quota of Troops Necessary to 
Complete your Battallions in the Continental Army, and of Supplies of 
provisions agreable to the Estimates inclosed you in our letter of the 
[ ] instant.^ At the Same time we would not wish you to Consider 

any part of our former requisitions as become in the least degree unneces- 
sary — on the contrary we are now Strongly Convinced that they are al- 
ready as small as the important objects in view can possibly admit of. We 
only mention the two first as the most immediate and indispensibly Neces- 
sary for reinforced as the Enemy now are by the return of their Troops 
from the reduction of Charlestown, we Momently expect an attack will be 
made on our weak and almost resistless Army. Should this event happen 
whilst in this State we seriously dread the result. 

From the well known indefatigable attention of Your State, to the 
welfare of the United States we cannot entertain a doubt of its exertions 
at this interesting Conjuncture, and we most earnestly intreat you to Give 
us the Earliest information of the final determinations of your State on 
the Subjects of this and our former letters. 
We are Sir with the highest respect. 

Your most obedt. Servts. 

Jno. Mathews, 
Nathl. Peabody. 

To the State of Pensylvania 

We take the liberty of again calling your attention to the urgent neces- 
sity of forwarding the flour to West Point. The reasons for this pressing 
call are fully contained in our letter of the [ ] instant, to which we 

beg leave to refer you.'* 

267. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Morris Town, 19th June 1780. 
Sir, 

We received your favor of the 15th Instant, inclosing two acts of Con- 
gress of the 1 2th and 13th Instant, which will be duly attended to.^ 

We inclose you copy of General Washington's letter to us, of this day, 
and of our circular letter to the several States, from New Hampshire to 
Virginia inclusive, for the information of Congress.^ 

3 The reference is doubtless to the circular letter of June 2 (no. 213, ante). 

* This paragraph is of course not found in copies of the circular sent to other 
states than Pennsylvania. The letter referred to is no doubt that of June 12 to Reed 
(no. 241, ante), although the letter-book copy has "second instant". 

[267]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 85, no. Ii, p. 28. 

-The President's letter (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 115; President's 
Letter-Book, p. 28) transmitted the instructions of June 12 and the orders of June 13, 
consequent upon the committee's letter of June 5. 

3 This letter was signed by Mathews and Peabody. Washington's letter to the 
committee, June 19, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VII. 80, (ed.^ Ford), VIII. 316 n. ; 
Clinton Pal>ers, V. 856; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 338. The circular letter of the com- 
mittee, June 19, is no. 266, ante ; cf. no. 272, f>ost. 



June, 1780 231 

268. The Secretary of Congress (Charles Thomson) to the 

Several States.^ 

r^jy-i Secretary's Office June 20, 1780. 

The Commissions to private armed vessels of war were heretofore or- 
dered to be attested by the secretary of Congress. But upon estabhshing a 
board of Admiralty it was judged proper that they should issue from that 
board and be attested by their secretary. Accordingly on the 2d of May 
last, having made some alterations in the form of the Commission Bond, 
and instructions for commanders of private armed Vessels of War, Con- 
gress passed the following resolutions ' . . . . 

You will therefore please, for the future, to apply to the Board of Ad- 
miralty for the commissions bonds etc which may be wanted in your State, 
and transmit to the said board the bonds given by the commanders to be 
lodged in this Office." 

269. The Committee at Headquarters to the Governor of 

Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

In Committee of Congress, 
r-- Morris Town June 20, 1780. 

Since we did ourselves the honor of addressing your excellency in our 
circular letter of yesterday, inclosing copy of a letter of the same date 
from the commander in Chief He has thought proper to direct Brigadier 
General Parsons to repair to your State in order to collect, arrange, and 
forward the drafts and recruits from thence to the Army, as you will be 
advised by the inclosed Copy. 

General Parsons is fully acquainted with the numbers, situation and 
wants of our Army, and the indispensible necessity for the States immedi- 
ately filling their continental Regiments to the number of five hundred and 
four Rank and file, agreable to the Generals proposal, and of forwarding 
the quota of Militia and Supplies allotted to the States agreable to the 
requisitions of this committee. We therefore most earnestly request your 
Excellency to pay the earliest attention to his representation on these im- 
portant Subjects, and to give him every aid in your power to effect the 
matters committed to his charge by the Commander in Chief." 

Wt have the honor to be with respect and Esteem 

Your Most Obt. Humble Servts. 

Jno. Mathews 
Nathl. Peabody. 

[268]' Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 527; no. 18A (Secretary's 
Letter-Book), p. 2 (draft); ibid., Force Trans., Weare ; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
VIL 44; Mass. Arch., CCIL 288; Arch, of Md., XLIIL 519; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIIL 
340; Clinton Papers, V. 863. 

- See the report of the board of admiralty and the consequent resolves, in the 
Journals, May 2. Thompson here quotes the first resolve and the first part of the second. 

3 See, further, the Journals, July 24, 27, and the circular letter of July 28 (no. 
347, post). The board of admiralty was established Oct. 28, 1779. 

[269]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), vol. XIL, pt. L, p. 35; Library 
of Congress, Papers Cont., Cong., no. 11, p. 200 (letter-book copy), no. 39, vol. IIL, p. 
91 (draft by Mathews). 

- Washington's letter to the committee, June 20, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions, fifth ser., X. 177, to Trumbull, ibid., p. 178. 



232 Continental Congress 

270. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

Circular 

Philadelphia June 21, 1780. 
Sir, 

Congress have at different Periods recommended Measures which they 
deemed essentially necessary for the public Good. 

They now request of those States which have not made returns of their 
Transactions in that respect, the most expeditious Information of the 
Measures they have taken in Consequence of the several resolutions, a list 
of which is annexed to the enclosed Act of Congress of the 17th Instant.^ 

271. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson)/ 

Philadelphia June 21. 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the honour to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Acts of Con- 
gress of the 17th and 19th Instant pointing out the Measures they deem 
necessary to be taken, for the Support of the southern Army. 

I make no Doubt the State of Virginia will avail itself of its numerous 
and spirited Militia, as well as great resources, at this important Crisis, 
when her own immediate Interest is so intimately connected with that of 
the Union. 

P. S. I have been honored with your Despatches of the 9th Instant " 

[270]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Mass. Arch., CCII. 290; N. J. State Lib.; 
Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 46; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 
37; Arch, of Md.. XLIII. 520; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 343 ; R. I. State Recs., IX. 201. 
2 The annexed list summarizes items under the following dates : 1779, Mar. 9, 
May 21, Sept. 13 (circular letter), Oct. 6 and 7, Oct. 9 (circular), Dec. 11 ; 1780, Feb. 9, 
25, Mar. 18, May 19, 20. Responses were received as follows : Delaware June 22 (Jour- 
nals, June 26); Maryland June 26 (Journals, June 30; Arch, of Md., XLIII. 205), 
though limited to the act of Mar. 18; more particularly in letters to the committee at 
headquarters and to General Washington July 10 (ibid., pp. 216, 217) ; New Jersey 
June 28 (Journals, July 5 ; partial response ; Governor Livingston " had not charged 
his memory with particulars"); Massachusetts July 4 (Journals, July 17); Rhode 
Island July 8 (ibid.); New York July 8 (Journals, July 20; Clinton Papers, V. 938); 
Connecticut July 10 (Journals, July 18; Mass. Hist. Soc, Colls., seventh ser.. III. 58); 
New Hampshire July 17 (Journals, Aug. 14) ; Virginia July 27 (Journals, Aug. 4; 
Writings of Jefferson, ed. Ford, II. 322; Official Letters. II. 142) ; Pennsylvania Aug. 5 
(Journals, Aug. 21; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 458, dated July 30; cf. Reed's letter to 
the delegates July 6, ibid., p. 352, and nos. 396, 397, post). Governor Nash of North 
Carolina wrote July 18 (Journals, Aug. 14) that it was not until May 15 that he 
received resolves of February, that the assembly had then adjourned, but that he would 
call it together again. Oct. 6 (Journals, Oct. 31) he wrote that he had received sundry 
despatches and resolves during his excursion into the western country and stated that 
it would be impracticable to fill up the state's battalions, " owing to the perpetual calls 
we have for the militia .... and with respect to provisions I am to acquaint you that 
the state of our country at pres't is such as will render very precarious any supplies that 
might otherwise be expected of us" (A''. C. State Recs., XV. i). Respecting the act of 
Mar. 18, see nos. 314, 331, post. 

[271]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 39. 

2 Jefferson's letter of June 9 was read in Congress June 16, and President Hunting- 
ton acknowledged its receipt the same day. See no. 251, ante. 



June, 1780 233 

272. The President of Congress to the States from 
New Hampshire to Maryland.^ 

Circular.^ 

Philadelphia June 22, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will herewith receive an Act of Congress of the 21. 
Instant, which will no doubt be duly attended to. 

Those parts of the Act in particular that relate to giving Information 
to Congress and their Committee at Head Quarters, it is most earnestly 
requested may be attended to with the utmost Expedition and Punctuality. 

The Time is come when we may hourly expect the Arrival of the Forces 
of our Ally, and the Plan of Operation ought to be completely formed, 
and ready to be communicated upon their Arrival, which cannot be done 
for want of proper and certain Information, of the Number of Forces, 
Quantity of Supplies, etc. which the States will furnish 

Under these Circumstances you will easily perceive, that Congress and 
the Commander in Chief are placed in a most painful Situation, and that 
the Interest, Honour and Safety of these States are too much affected to 
admit of the least Delay or Neglect of any and every Exertion which the 
present Situation of our Affairs demand 

June 2^. Since writing the foregoing, I have received a Letter from 
his Exc'y Genl. Washington an Extract of which is enclosed together with 
an Act of Congress of this Day, by which you will be further informed of 
the pressing Necessity of immediately forwarding on the supplies of Men 
and Provisions with the utmost Expedition and the repeated Request of 
Congress to transmit to them and their Committee at Head Quarters the 
Proceedings of the State over which you have the honour to preside in 
such Manner that the Commander in Chief may rely, and be enabled to 
regulate his future Regulations thereon.^ 

273. Robert R. Livingston to George Washington.^ 

Trentown 22d June 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

My anxiety for the supplies of the army have brought me to this place 
in order that I might satisfy myself as to the quantity on hand, and the 
means of forwarding them. Genl. Knox has communicated to me your 
Excellency's orders on this subject. Nothing short of them would I am 
fully persuaded be of sufficie[nt J force to produce the desired effect, and 

[272]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 49; Mass. Arch., CCII. 291; Library of Con- 
gress, President's Letter-Book, p. 40; N. J. State Lib.; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 348; 
Clinton Papers. V. 872; Arch, of Md., XLIIl. 522; R. I. State Recs., IX. 201. 

- The instructions of Congress were that this circular be sent to the states New 

Hampshire to Maryland, inclusive, and the letter-book contains a notation to that effect. 

3 See the Journals, June 21, 23, and no. 270, ante. Washington's letter of June 20 

is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 315; an extract is in Clinton Papers. V. 874. See also 

nos. 266, 267, ante. 

[273]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
HL I. 



234 Continental Congress 

the knowledge of them will in a great measure render the execution of 
them unnecessary, empressed with this Idea, I have been long labouring 
to bring Congress to assume the power which will enable them to call forth 
the resources of the States, but unhappily without effect. However I hope 
much from their pressing and reiterated demands. What principally in- 
duced me to trouble your Excellency at this time is an apprehension which 
I, in common with many other gentlemen, entertain of the propriety of 
leaving the command at West point in the Hands of Genl. Howe Having 
no personal acquaintance with him I can have no prejudices, but the Gen'le 
[Gentlemen] from the Southward by no means speak so favourably of him 
as I could wish. But in [spite] " of this I conceive, that as yet he has had no 
opportunity of acquiring a military character. But Confidence which is so 
necessary to inspire courage especially in militia, will I fear be wanting in 
him. [If] I might presume so far I shd. beg leave to submit it to yr. Excel- 
lency whether this post might not be most safely confided to Genl. Arnold 
whose courage is undoubted, who is the favourite of our militia, and who 
will agree perfectly with our Govr. Your Excellency will not consider this 
as designed to convey the most dis[tant] reflection on Genl. Howe, of whom 
I know nothing but by report which may very possibly be ill grounded, but 
if the most distant doubt remains in a matter of much moment I conceive 
it should be removed. I make no other appology for the liberty I take than 
the motive that suggests it. Which has before now induced your Excel- 
lency to pardon an interference in matters to which I was no [more?]^ 
competent than the present. This Hasty letter is written while the express 
waits whom I am unwilling to detain longer than while I declare the re- 
spect and esteem with which 

I am your Excellencys 

Most Obt. Hum : Servt. 

RoBT. R Livingston * 

274. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, June 23d, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... General Lincoln arived this day at Congress and has requested 
an enquiry into his conduct in the loss of Charlestown." 

2 The MS. is torn, partly obliterating some words. 

3 The manuscript is torn. 

■* Washington's reply to this letter, June 29, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 
326, (ed. Sparks), VII. 94. In connection with this letter to Livingston, in both the 
Sparks and the Ford editions of Washington's Writings is given an extract of a letter 
from Arnold to Schuyler, May 25, intimating a desire to be assigned to the command 
of West Point. Replying (Oct. 18) to a letter of Joseph Reed (Oct. 3), in which Reed 
touched upon the matter of Arnold's appointment, Washington gave his recollection of 
the casual conversation with Schuyler concerning Arnold's request, and spoke of this 
letter of Livingston to him, although without mentioning Livingston bv name. Writings 
(ed. Ford), VIII. 498, (ed. Sparks), VII. 264; Lijc of Rccd. II. 277. A letter from 
Schuyler to Arnold, replying to Arnold's letter of May 25, is ibid., p. 276. 
[274]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 55. 

2 Lincoln's letter informing Congress of his arrival in Philadelphia is dated 
June 22, but was read in Congress the 23d. See the Journals of that day, and nos. 287, 



June, I/80 235 

Mr. Laurence having been prevented going to Holland, Mr. John 
Adams, or, if inconvenient for him, Mr. Dana is authorised to transact 
the business there until Mr. Laurence or some other appointed in his room 
shall arive. 

Your Excellency, I presume, has too perfect a knowledge of the state 
of the army and too frequent representations of the publick exigencies 
from Congress, their committee at camp, and the General, to leave it in 
my power to add anything on those subjects. 

Mr. Huntington is neerly thro' the small pox, and I hope will soon 
leave me at liberty to return home. 



275. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia June 23rd 1780. 

Dear Sir, 

Nothing material has taken place since my last. The fact is confirmed 
that Clinton has returned to N. Y. with part of the Southern army, and 
has joined Kniphausen. They are at present manoeuvering for purposes 
not absolutely known, but most probably in order to draw Genl. Washing- 
ton to an action in which they suppose he might be disabled to give the 
necessary co-operation to the french armament. Could they succeed in 
drawing him from his strong position, the result indeed ought to be ex- 
ceedingly feared. He is weak in numbers beyond all suspicion, and under 
as great apprehension from famine as from the Enemy. L^nless very 
speedy and extensive reinforcements are reced. from the Eastern States, 
which I believe are exerting themselves, the issue of the Campaign must 
be equally disgraceful to our councils and disgustful to our Allies. Our 
greatest hopes of being able [to] feed them are founded on a patriotic 
scheme of the opulent Merch'ts of this city who have already subscribed 
nearly £3,000,000 and will very soon complete that sum, the immediate 
object of which is to procure and transport to the Army 3,000,000,000 
of rations, and 300 Hhds. of rum. Congress for the support of this bank 
and for the security and indemnification of the Subscribers have pledged 
the faith of the United States and agreed to deposit Bills of Exchange on 
Europe to the amount of £150,000 sterling, which are not however to be 
made use of unless other means of discharging this debt should be inade- 
quate. " 

323, post. Another letter of June 22, relative to his exchange, was read in Congress 
June 26. 

[275]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings of Madison (ed. 
Hunt), I. 66; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 49. 

2 C/. no. 281, post. See the Journals, June 21, 22; also nos. 235, 255, 259, 261, 
ante, 281, 303, post. Madison evidently meant to write £300,000 and 3,000,000 rations. 



236 Continental Congress 

2/6. The Committee at Headquarters to the States from 
New Hampshire to Virginia/ 

In Committee of Congress, 

MoRRisTOWN, June 2t^, 1780. 
Sir, 

Impressed with the necessity of giving you the earHest information of 
every important occurrence, we therefore inclose you a copy of a letter 
from the commander-in-chief this moment received.' 

From the accumulated distresses of our army which we are daily spec- 
tators of; from the jeopardy we have twice seen them in. and from the 
fatal consequences that must have resulted from a defeat ( which would 
inevitably have been the consequence, had the enemy at first, and still will 
be should they even now pursue their object). Wo. are constrained again 
to call on you in the most pressing manner, to forward your quota of men 
and supplies agreeably to our estimate of the 2d instant, and prevent the 
total sacrifice of the few brave and intrepid spirits that at present com- 

[276] 1 N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 61 (except addition to Pennsylvania 
and New Jersey) ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 93 (copy 
sent to Congress), no. 39. vol. III., f. 51 (copy), no. 11, p. 68 (letter-book copy) ; ihid., 
Washington Papers; Md. Hist. Soc, vol. LXXXVII.. f. 185; N. T. State Lib.; Haver- 
ford College, Roberts Coll. (to Pennsylvania) ; R. I. State Recs., IX. 150; Pa. Arch., first 
ser., VIII. 355; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 239. 

- Washington's letter to the committee, June 23, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions, fifth ser., X. 179; R. I. State Rccs.. IX. 118; A". /. Rev. Corr.. p. 238 (dated June 
20) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 336. A draft is in the Washington Papers. "We do 
not know ", he says, " the ultimate designs of the enemy— all we know is that they are 
very strong and that we are very weak." In order to save the stores, which can be done 
only by removing them, since he is unable to defend them, he entreats the committee to 
write to the executives of Pennsylvania and New Jersey pressing them to bring out 
all the wagons they can, and he further asks " that the States may be again called upon 
to redouble their exertions to comply with the demands that have been already made 
upon them ". See no. 278, post, 

Washington also took other measures for the removal of the stores, but meanwhile 
the committee had taken, apparently on its own account, steps to the same end, by 
addressing the following communication, dated June 22, at 11 o'clock P. M., to Joseph 
Lewis, assistant deputy quartermaster : 

" We earnestly request you to give every assistance in your power to have the Stores 
moved from this point tonight." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 88 (draft), no. 11, 
p. 261 (copy). 

Lewis's reply, "at ii-Vi P. ^L", further emphasizes the fact that the committee's note 
to him was a request and not an order : 

"Your request dated at 11 P. M. I have received, the public good and the safety of 
this town are sufficient motives to induce me to use every exertion in removing the 
stores — and, if an}- thing could be an additional motive, it is excited by an earnest desire 
of complying with your request. The committee m.ay therefore fully rely on my utmost 
to have the stores removed without loss of time." Ibid., no. 11. p. 338. 

Only the day before (June 21) the committee had made the following requisition for 
supplies, addressed to "Colo. Ephm. Blaine C G Purchases": "Sir, You will please 
order the under mention'd articles immediately to Head Quarters for the use of this 
Committee ^/.:r^ One Quarter Cask of Madaria Wine. One small barrel brown Sugar, 
One hundred weight of Loaf Sugar, Fifty pounds of Coffee, Twenty pounds Chocolate, 
One Barrel milk Bisquet, Six pounds hysan Tea, half a dozen bottles of musterd. Three 
pounds of black peper, a keg of good wine Vinegar, Two Bottles of Oyl, One Barrel of 
good Spirits and. One Barrel Hams." The letter (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., 
i. 61, copy) was signed by Mathews and Peabody. The original does not appear to be in 
the Blaine Papers. Whether in the hurried shifting of headquarters the committee 
received these supplies has not been discovered. June 23 the secretary of the committee, 
Abraham Brasher, addressed to Col. James Abeel an order for the following items : two 
padlocks for wagons, one chest lock, one set of iron bowls, one camp kettle, one tea 
kettle, one forage knife, one dozen iron plates, six leather bottom camp stools. Ibid., f. 58. 



June, 1780 237 

pose our army, and avoid the indelible stain that must consequently be 
fixed on these states, should such an event take place. ^ (Thus far Circular) 

To the States of Pennsylvania and Xew Jersey 

That part of the General's letter respecting the state of the stores here, 
is a matter of such pressing necessity that we conceive it to be our duty 
to give the earliest attention to it. The situation of the magazines at this 
point is truly deplorable, the enemy are certainly pushing at them, and we 
are in no condition to move them for want of teams; if they do not effect 
their purpose at this time it is evident they mean to persist until the situa- 
tion of our affairs renders it necessary for the remains of our army to 
move from hence, when there will be no impediment to the execution of 
their plan. \\"e therefore hope, sir. you will enable the officers of the 
departments to improve this interval so as to effect their removal to a 
place of greater safety by having the teams which are requested of your 
state immediately sent forward.* 

\\'e have the honor to be your Excellency's most obt. and hble. Servts. 

Jno. Mathews, 
Nath. Peabody.^ 

277. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town June 24, 1780. 
Sir, 

\\t inclose you, for the information of Congress, copies of the Com- 
mander in Chief's letter to us of the 23d Inst, and of our circular letter, 
of the same date, to the Several States from Xew Hampshire to Virga. 
inclusive. 

Your Excellency will observe those to Xew Jersey and Pensylvania 
have an additional clause in each agreable to the request of the Com- 
mander in Chief." 

We beg the favor of your Excellency to forward the Letters Southward 
of Pensylvania.^ 

3 See the letters from Jefferson, July 2, to Washington, to the President of 
Congress, and to the committee {Writings, ed. Ford, II. 315, 316, 317; Official Letters, 
II. 136-137) ; see also the Maryland council to the committee and to Washington, July lo 
{Arch, of Md., XLIII. 216, 2i"7). 

* See no. 277, post. 

^ On the same day Peabody wrote to the President of Congress an account of 
the action at Springfield (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XVIII. , f. 299). The letter, 
which was written at intervals between 2 p. m. and 11 p. m. on the 23d and continued on 
the 24th, was received by Congress June 26, whereas the circular letter of the committee, 
transmitted with their letter of the 24th (no. 277, post), was not received until the 27th. 
Peabody gave a fuller account of the action in his letter to Weare June 24 (no. 279, 
post). 

[277]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 90, no. 11, p. 28 
(letter-book copy). 

2 See no. 276, ante, and no. 278, post. See also Greene to Reed, June 29, in Lije 
of Reed, II. 216. 

3 This letter is signed by Mathews and Peabody. 



238 Continental Congress 

278. The Committee at Headquarters to George Washington.^ 

In Committee of Congress 
^^y Morris Town June 24, 1780. 

We received your favor of the 23 Inst, yesterday about four o Clock. 
We paid an immediate attention to it, as appears by the inclosed letter to 
the States ' 

The Stores will be nearly all removed from hence this Evening, except 
such as are necessary for the detachment of the army at the short hills. 

We propose joining your Excellency as soon as Genl. Schuyler returns, 
whom we hourly expect.^ 

279. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

^■^ Morristown 24th June 1780. 

Altho I have Scarce time to write a single word except what relates to 
official Transactions and of course am deprived of the happiness of pri- 
vate correspondence — Yet when I reflect how various and uncertain com- 
mon reports are with regard to matters and things And how agreable it 
must be for You Sir and the rest of my friends to have early and direct 
intelligence of the momentous manouveres and retrograde manoveres of 
the Enemy Especially at this Critical Conjuncture, Am Constrain'd to 
rob the Couch of a few dreary midnight moments, to give some imperfect 
hints relative to the late movements of the Enemy. 

The Committee^ wrote you yesterday by their Circular letter inclosing 
Copy of a letter reed, from the Commander in Chief, but as the fate of 
the day was then undetermined, nothing particular could be observed, 
except what was Contained in his Exce'cys Letters affore alluded to.^ 



[278]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed by Mathews and Peabody); 
Papers Cent. Cong., no. n, p. 220 (letter-book copy). 

2 See nos. 276, 277, ante. 

3 Washington had removed his headquarters from Morristown to Springfield 
June 7, and thence, June 22, to Rockaway Bridge, whence the letter to the committee 
was written. The same day (June 23) he removed to Whippany, the 26th to Ramapaugh, 
where he remained until July i, then established his headquarters at Col. Theunis Dey's, 
Preakness, near Passaic Falls. There he remained until July 29. Schuyler did not leave 
Philadelphia until June 26 (probably), and instead of joining the committee at Morris- 
town appears to have been proceeding to Washington's present headquarters at Rama- 
paugh. See no. 283, post. 

[279]! N. H. Hist., Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 63. 

2 That is, the committee at headquarters. See no. 276, ante. 

3 Peabody describes the enemy's advance upon Springfield, their destruction of 
the town, and their return to Staten Island. See no. 276, note 5, ante ; see also Washing- 
ton to Congress June 25 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 329, ed. Sparks, VII. 85), and 
Greene to Washington June 24 (ibid., p. 506). 

John Mathews wrote to Thomas Bee on the same day, giving some account of the 
action at Springfield. His letter begins : " Blush ! Blush ! Ye American States at your 
tardy, infamous conduct, in suffering the few brave and intrepid spirits, that at present 
compose your army, to be daily subjict to the resentments of a merciless enemy." At the 
close of the letter he says, " I was down a part of the time, but did not stay long. I 
saw this last manuvre ". The last manoeuvre to which he refers is thus described : " But 
they certainly turn'd tail on us." This letter is listed in the Emmet Calendar (no. 4239) as 
to " Thomas Bell ". 



June, 1780 239 

280. JoHX Walker to George Weedon.^ 

Philadelphia, 27 June, 1780. 
Dear General: 

.... Before this reaches you, you will no doubt have heard of your 
being called into service. This I am sure will be agreeable to you, and may 
you render your country that service she stands in need of and that which 
I know you wish to do." Our affairs 'tis true are critical, but an adverse 
stroke is now and then necessary to rouse us to action. Our resources are 
undoubtedly sufficient and we want but exertions to work out our salva- 
tion. We are now roused and I hope the work will be finished before we 
fall into another fit of the lethargy. I think your scheme for recruiting 
our army an excellent one and wish with all my soul it were adopted. This 
and the neighbouring States are straining every nerve to bring the present 
campaign to a happy conclusion ; let it not be said that Virginia was ex- 
ceeded either in zeal or in exertions by any one of them Where 

in the name of Heaven are the Monsieurs all this time? We heard of 
their sailing from Brest the 9th of April 

281. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, June 27th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do my self the honour to write your Excellency, tho at the same time 
I am almost ready to believe my letters are not agreable, as I have not re- 
ceived one line since I left the state. 

Congress have taken up and settled the scale of depriciation upon which 

the Loan office Certificates are to be paid off This business hath 

taken up much time in Congress occasioned by the different interests in 
the states and individuals concerned, bad as it may be thought to be by 
some, it is the best that could be obtained.^ It was become absolutely neces- 
sary to establish publick credit upon some baisis. Otherwise from appear- 
ance the Army will disband and our Country be lost. The embaresments 
of our publick measures are beyond descryption owing to the want of 
money. 

The merchants in this City offered Congress that they would supply the 
Army with 3.000.000 of Rations of provisions and Three hundred Hogs- 
heads of Rum delivered in Camp, to be paid for in six months with Inter- 
est at six per cent pr. Annum. The offer is accepted, the Merchants have 
subscribed a fund of £300 000 hard Money and are sending the provisions 
forward, which I trust will give a momentary relief,^ At the same time 
it is to be hoped no one state will fail to exert themselves in forwarding 

[280]! Seventy-Six Society, Publications: Maryland Papers, p. ill. 

2 See the Journals, June 16, and no. 192, ante; also a passage in Walker's letter 
of July II (no. 304, post, but omitted there). 

[28i]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 136; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 299. 

2 The completed measure is in the Journals, June 28. See nos. 102, note 2, 120, 
142, ante, and nos. 286, 288, post. 

' See no. 275, note 2, ante, and no. 303, post. 
20 



240 Continental Congress 

their quota of Supplies, As the Enemy build their greatest hopes on our 
not being able to feed an Army sufficent to look them in the face. 

I have little encouragment that I shall be able to obtain any money on 
the State's accompt, Massachusetts and N. Hampshire have since applied in 
the same manner but have as yet not been able to obtain any.* 

I wish some one of my Coleagues may arive soon, the State of Rhode 
Island is now the only State in the Union that is represented by only one 
member, I shall be soon out of Cash, the expense of Board in this place is 
beyond discription 

282. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, June 27th 1780. 

Inclosed is a Coppy of the Proportion of the new money to be Emitted 
for the State of newhampshier as lixt by the board of treasury, which I 
expect to Send on next day after to morrow if I am not Dissapointed by 
one Captin John Brown of Boston who I Shall ingage to Convay it to 
Exeter " and allso a motion made by your Delegates for Pay for the Ship 
hamhdcn agreable to your Request and the Report of the Committee to 
whome it wase Referd, which I make no Doubt will be as Dissagreable to 
you as it wase to me. true it is Congress are in grate want of money at 
this time but as they had granted some Relefe to the State of the Massa- 
chussetts they aught to have Done the same by newhampshier when the 
worst Comes to the worst we must Due our Selves Justice.^ I Did not 
move for Pay for the Cloathing being advised by my frinds to Postpone 
it at this time and waite a more favorable oppertunety. I am S'r with 
grate Respect 

your most obt. Hum'le Servent 

Nathel. Folsom 

283. Philip Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

PoMPTON, [June 2y ?, 1780.]* 
Gentlemen. 

I have perused the letter from the legislature of ^laryland, and the 
Generals answer. I heartily approve of what the legislature proposed, and 

■* Cf. nos. 262, 26s, ante, and 282, 286, 298, post. 
[282] IN. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VIII. 67. 

- See no. 265, ante, and no. 286, post. 

3 See the Journals, June 19, 2.3, and no. 265, ante. Weare says in his letter of 
May 27 : " This State the year past actually paid 333,000 Dollars for the Ship Hampden 
her Tackle and Appurtenances lost at Penobscot mens wages etc. and also have advanced 
at least 600,000 Dollars for Cloathing for the Continental Army" (Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 64, f. no; A''. H. State Papers, X. 510). The relief granted to Massachusetts, to 
which Folsom alludes, was doubtless the action of Apr. 8 (see no. 131, ante). 

[283]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, vol. III., f. 531, no. 11, p. 280 
(letter-book copy). 

2 The letter was undated, but is endorsed by Secretary Brasher (on both origi- 
nal and letter-book copy), "reed, by Com. 28th June 1780". It was doubtless written 
June 27. 



June, I/80 241 

think It advisable, If you do so, that the letter which signifies our appro- 
bation should contain a compliment on the Exertions of the State.^ 

Adieu — I am most sincerely yours etc. 

Ph : Schuyler 

Pray come on as soon as you possibly can as the Genl. may want us.* 

284. The Committee at Headquarters to Daniel of St. Thomas 
Jenifer and Josia Beall.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

^ , Morris Town, Tune 28, 1780. 

Gentlemen, 

Wq. are this moment honored by the receipt of a letter of the 27th in- 
stant from the Commander in Chief covering copy of your joint letter 
of the 22d addressed to his Excellency, with his answer.^ 

The committee duly impressed with the utility of augmenting the num- 
ber of regular troops in the field, the cogency of the reasons by you ad- 
duced in favour of such augmentation, so far as they relate to your state, 
in preference to the mode pointed out by the Committee in their Circular 
letter of the 2d instant in concurrence with the Commander in Chief, for 
reinforcing the Army, Sensible of the peculiar embarrassments your state 
might be under, by endeavouring, at this time, to furnish the proposed 
quota of A-Iilitia and wishing to calculate every measure to be adopted to 
the inclination and convenience of the States, are induced fully to coin- 
cide with the General in opinion respecting your propositions. Though, 
as the General observes, many inconveniences will arise in consequence of 
so great a deduction from the force you were to have furnished, and if a 
proportionable dimunition should take place in the other states, although 
the men, thus furnished will be engaged upon a permanent footing, we 
are not without anxiety least our Army should be found inadequate to the 
great objects in view. Our feelings have more than once been tortured, 
by seeing the General, with his little army, involved at a most critical 
moment in such complicated embarrassments as few Generals would have 
encountered, when at the same time his sensibility must have been greatly 
wounded by reflecting that this labyrinth of distress, was in a great meas- 
ure owing to the cruel neglect of those whose indispensible duty it was 

3 The reference is to the letter of Jenifer and Beall to Washington, and to the 
latter's reply, June 27, which was sent to the committee under a flying seal for their 
consideration. See no. 284, post. 

* See no. 278, ante, and no. 295. post. General Greene wrote to Col. Udny Hay 
from Ramapaugh June 27 : " General Schuyler returned last night to Morristown from 
Philadelphia, which place I left in the Evening; he says the arrangement is nearly Com- 
plete, but that it is mutilated in the plan in such a way as will in a great Measure destroy 
its utility. The Sallary of the State Deputies is to be 130 Dollars pr. Month ; an Assis- 
tant Deputy 70, and others in the same proportion. I shall say nothing further upon it 
untill I see it ; Congress always destroy with their left hand what they begin with their 
right. People that will not learn Wisdom by suffering and experience cannot be saved" 
{Clinton Papers, V, 888). See nos. 128, 261. ante, and nos. 295, 317, 320, post. 

[284] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers (copy, signed by Mathews and Pea- 
body); ibid., Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 98 (copy), no. 11, p. 201 (letter- 
book copy). 

2 Washington's letter to Jenifer and Beall (June 27) is in Arch of Md., XLIII. 
525. See no. 283, ante. 



242 Continental Congress 

to have supported their cause by furnishing him with an Army and sup- 
pHes equal to the exigency of the time, and the importance of estabhshing 
their independence, and bringing the war to a speedy and honorable ter- 
mination ; yet we are fully convinced such is his delicacy and candour, such 
his affectionate regard to the ease and convenience of the states, that he 
would undergo every species of hardship and fatigue, run every risque 
that did not with temerity endanger a total loss of the Army; the conse- 
quences inevitable to such an event, you will readily conceive. In short, 
that he would sacrifice every thing but his honor and integrity in support 
of the independence of these States, rather than they should be burthened 
by any unnecessary requisition. We shall therefore rely with the most 
entire confidence, that the condition and proposals mentioned in the Gen- 
erals letter to you, and upon which he was induced to accept the propo- 
sitions of your state, will be most rigidly observed, and fully complied 
with on their part.^ 

285. Robert R. Livingston to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia. 29th June. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I am sorry to find that in passing the finance bill, no provission 
has been made for exchanging money, as this wd. enable you to answer 
the demands of Congress which are extreamly pressing and at the same 
time put some money in the treasury without too much disstressing the 
inhabitants by taxes ; it was for this purpose the words by taxes or otJier- 
zvise were inserted in the resolution.^ If the legislature are sitting, I wish 
a supplemental bill may pass immediately; if not I think that the necessity 
would justify you in ordering the treasurer to do it till they met, as it never 
was the idea of any of us that you could raise the whole sum demanded 
by tax 

3 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer was president of the Maryland Senate. He was 
also a member of Congress and attended for a brief period in the first part of June. 
Josia Beall was speaker of the House of Delegates. Their letter to Washington, June 
22, is in the Washington Papers, and is printed in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
HI. 3 (although Beall's name there appears as "Jonathan"). It was transcribed in the 
committee's letter-book (Papers Cont. Cong., no. n, p. 332). 
[285]! Clinton Papers, V. 896. 

- That is, the resolution of Mar. 18. See the " Summary " accompanying Clin- 
ton's letter to Congress July 8 {Clinton Papers, V. Q38), where it is stated that the 
New York act had been forwarded to Congress by the governor June 21. That letter 
was read in Congress the same day on which Livingston was writing. 

June 29 a circular letter was ordered sent to the states from New Hampshire to 
Maryland, urging (among other things) compliance with the resolution of Mar. 18. The 
draft of the letter (drawn by Jared Ingersoll) as reported by a committee (appointed 
June 27 on a treasury report), and amended in Congress, is in the Journals, June 29. 
Texts of the circular are found in Mass. Arch., CCH. 300; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc., 
Huntington (to President Rodney of Delaware); Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VH. 53; 
N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSS., XH. 134 (copy; the original to 
N. Y. was in the Stan. V. Henkels' sale Apr. 24, 1929, Catalogue, no. 1430, item 6) ; Li- 
brary of Congress, President's Letter-book, p. 47. Printed texts are in Arch, of Md., 
XLHL 527; Pa. Arch., first sen, VHL 375; .V. /. Rev. Con:, p. 240; R. I. State Recs., 
IX. 151. See the Journals, Aug. 17; cf. nos. 246, 264, 270, ante, and nos. 288, 289, 310, 314, 
331. 396, 397, post. 



June, 1780 243 

We have been in pain for West Point, but I hope that we have now 
nothing to fear from that quarter, as we hear that our Hne are returned 
and that the posts are strongly reinforced 

286. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

^, Philadelphia June the 29th, 1780. 

I imbrace the eairlest oppertunity to inclose you the Resolution of Con- 
gress Respecting loan office Certificats which hase been under Considera- 
tion every opportunety for a long time Past and Postpond and Put off 
upon Different views and Different motives to this Day hope it may be 
agreeable, alltho not exactly according to my mind, yet it is the nighest 
to Justice Could be agreed on. as soon as the treasury Board have Pre- 
pared the Proper tabels for the Several loan officers in Paying off the 
Principal and Interest they will be forwarded to the Respective loan 
officefs." .... 

yesterday I Sent off our Preportion of the new money by Capt. John 
Brown of boston who hase ingaged to Deliver it with out loss of time to 
the treasurer at Exeter for which he hase Reed, three thousend Dollers 
in full for the Same hope it may arive Safe, it was some of the first 
Struck off and as soon as it wase Ready immediately Sent off ' 

PS I Shall expect to be Releived in Sepr. as I must then Returne 
home N F. 

287. Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

„ r-- Philadelphia June ^oth 1780. 

Dear Sir, jo/ 

I was favored with yours by Genl. Schuyler and intended to have done 

myself the pleasure of writing to you by him, but he sit out sooner than 

I expected.' 

[286] IN. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, VIII. 68. 

2 Cf. no. 281, ante, and no. 288, post. 

3 See nos. 265, 282, ante. In a letter to Weare July 12 (N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare 
Papers, VIII. 82) Folsom acknowledges receipt that day of a letter from Weare of 
June 19 relative to the money, and reiterates the statement that it had been sent by 
Captain Brown. 

[287] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 520. 

- Holten records in his Diary under June 17, " I reed, a letter from the Hon Mr 
Peabody by Gen. Schuyler ". Peabody, then at headquarters as a member of the com- 
mittee of co-operation, was a member of the medical committee, as was also Holten. 

The committee at headquarters left but small record of their proceedings respecting 
arrangements in the medical department. June 10 Dr. Malachi Treat wrote to Schuyler 
from Albany that he had understood the medical system was to undergo alterations, and 
he offered some suggestions relative thereto (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 283, letter- 
book copy). About a month later Robert R. Livingston presented the following memo- 
randum in behalf of Dr. Thomas Tillotson : 

" Mem : for Com : at Camp Relative to Mr. Tillotson. 

" He complains of a false return of Doc'r Browne 

" He was made senior surgeon June 1776 

" Physitian and Surgeon Genl. in Genl. orders in the summer 1777 

" By commission from Congress 3d Octr 1777." 

The memorandum is endorsed by Mathews as "filed July 11, 1780". 



244 Continental Congress 

You mention, that you have not the last returns. Dr. Brown,' I think, 
made two returns of the Medical Gentleman not long since, and as I have 
but one of them I did suppose you had the other, as I tho't I had some 
remembrance of your taking [it] of me; the return I have is at this time 
wanted by the committee, as they are considering what Gentlemen are most 
proper to join the southern army; but if you stand in need of the return, 
I will send it or a copy ; I inclose you a late resolution of Congress respect- 
ing the department : And the committee have wrote to Dr. Brown direct- 
ing him to let them know the state of the middle district, and what stores 
and medicines are absolutely necessary ; Mr. Henry of Virginia is added 
to the committee, and we are doing all in our power to afford supplies.^ 

It gives me concern that the General shou'd be under embarrasments 
from a resolution of Congress, and I gave it as my opinion to Genl. 
Schuyler that it might be removed, but it has not been mentioned in 
Congress.^ 

It is a great misfortune to our country, that when we shou'd have our 
armies in the field, we have the men to raise and money and supplies to col- 
lect, and 'tho' I am not disposed to find fault with any, yet I think there 
has been delays, and we must now suffer the consequences. 

Genl. Lincoln is with us here, and agreeably to the resolutions of Con- 
gress and at his desire an inquiry is to be made respecting the surrender of 
Charlestown, and into his conduct as commanding officer, and report the 
same to Congress, and I have reason to believe it will be to his honor.^ 

General Ward arrived here about a fortnight since, and Mr. Adams on 
Wednesday last, so that I shall sit out for Boston soon after Jere ^ returns. 

I presented your compliments to the ladies, and have it in charge from 
them to return you the like salute. 

I am, sir, with sincere respect, 

your most obedient servant 

S. HOLTEN 

288, Joseph Jones to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

n c- Phila: 30th Tune 1780. 

JJear Sir, o j / 

.... We hear our Assembly are about to reconsider their determina- 
tion respecting the scheme of finance recommended by Congress, and that 

^ Dr. William Brown, physician and director general of hospitals, Middle depart- 
ment. He resigned a few days later. See the Journals, July 21. 

* The late resolution referred to is probably that of June 24. James Henry had 
been placed upon the medical committee May 4. 

s Peabody had evidently mentioned to Holten, as he had done in his letter of 
June 14 to Folsom (no. 248, ante), that Washington was embarrassed by the resolution 
restricting his operations to the thirteen states. See no. 232, ante, and nos. 322, note 17, 
353. 434, post. 

« See the Jonnials, June 23 ; also Washington to the President of Congress July 
10 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 338, ed. Sparks, VII. 102). Cf. no. 323, post. 

''See no. 215, note 2, ante. In his Diary Holten records under June 28, "The 
Hon. Mr. Adams arrived here from Boston ". 

[288]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Letters of Joschh Jones (ed. Ford), 
p. 15- 



June, 1780 245 

it was expected the measure would yet be adopted.^ I am happy to hear it ; 
being confident the rejection of the proposition and the emission of more 
paper money could not fail of producing the worst of consequences. Let 
us not depart from the determination not to increase the quantity. That 
resolution has already appreciated the money, and a steady adherence to 
the measure will at length efifectually do it. The present is the season for 
accomplishing the great work of Confederation. If we suffer it to pass 
away I fear it will never return. The example of New York is worthy of 
imitation, could Virginia but think herself as she certainly is already full 
large for vigorous government, she too would moderate her desires, and 
cede to the united States, upon certain conditions, her Territory beyond 
the Ohio. The Act of New York the Instructions of Maryland to their 
Delegates and the Declaration of the State upon the subj't and the late 
remonstrance of Virga. are now before a Committee, and I expect they 
will report, that it be recommended to the States having extensive western 
unappropriated Claims to follow the example of New York and by Law 
authorize their Delegates to make the cession. I some time past sent Mr. 
Mason a copy of the New York Act.^ .... 

I have been much and still am depressed to think that America should 
do so little for herself while France is proposing to do so much; that she 
should, contending for everything dear and valuable to her, look on with 
folded arms and suffer other powers almost unassisted by us, to work out 
our salvation and independence. The idea is humiliating; the fact must be 
dishonourable, and our posterity will blush to read it in future story. 



2 The scheme of finance referred to was that of Mar. 18. See no. 285, ante. 
The information that Virginia was reconsidering the question had evidently been received 
within a day or two, for on June 26 William Grayson, member of the board of war, 
wrote to General Smallwood : "The rejection of the resolution of Congress respecting 
finance was a fatal stab to the Independence of America. If Virginia does not rescind 
her determination we are all undone. Her persisting in the idea will not only deprive her- 
self of resources, but the whole continent. This added to her Kentucky policy and her 
want of exertion in affording assistance to South Carolina, will place her in a very dis- 
agreeable point of view with respect to the other states" (Seventy-Six Society, Publica- 
tions: Maryland Papers, p. 109). On the same day on which Jones was writing to Jef- 
ferson, Richard Henry Lee wrote from Richmond to Joseph Reed : " This assembly had 
once rejected the finance plan of Congress of the loth [18th] of March but the question 
has been since revived and a bill ordered in for its adoption. The bill is now on its 
passage and we hope will be finally consented to" (N. Y. Hist. Soc, AISS. of Joseph 
Reed, VI., copy). July 10 Lee wrote to Henry Laurens: "We have passed an Act to 
adopt the resolutions of Congress on finance, of the 18 March last when a majority of 
the States (excluding Georgia and S. Carolina) shall have absolutely or conditionally 
adopted them — so that I consider them as in fact already Adopted in this state " {Letters. 
ed. Ballagh, II. 186). See also Jefferson to Madison July 26, and to President Hunting- 
ton July 27 {Writings, ed. Ford, II. 319, 322; Official Letters, ed. Mcllwaine, II. 140, 
142), and the Journals, Aug. 4. 

3 See nos. 29, 93, ante. The New York act had been presented to Congress 
Mar. 7, the Virginia remonstrance Apr. 28, and these, together with the Maryland instruc- 
tions which had been presented May 21, 1779, were referred to a committee, of which 
Jones was a member, June 26. This committee offered a report June 30, which was read 
July 3 but was not taken into consideration until Sept. 6 (see however the Journals, 
Aug. 29, Sept. 2; see, further, no. 422, note 4, post). The Virginia remonstrance is in 
Hening, Statutes at Large, X. 557. What appears to be the original is in the Hist. Soc. 
of Pa., Dreer Coll.; a copy is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 65. What is endorsed 
as " Rough Remonstrance to Congress ", dated Dec. 10, 1779. is in Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers. 



246 Continental Congress 

Congress have formed the Scale of Depreciation to apply to Loan Office 

Certificates The resolves will be immediately published 

This will reduce the principal of Loans from 46.559.235 to 11.053.573.* 

289. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia June 30th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Conecticut, New York, 
New Jersey and Maryland, have adopted the Resolution, of Congress, 
of the iSth of March last; and pased Acts for funding their proportion 
of the New Money, it is expected Virginia will immediately do the same 
if not done already, I cannot willingly admit a doubt to remain on my 
mind, that our State have not adopted the measure, As I think the people 
before this must be convinced of the Necessity of adopting the measure 
if not the Justice.^ 

I cannot help mentioning how far, some states have furnished Supplies 
for the Army, agreable to a Resolution of Congress, of the 25th of Febry. 
Last. N York and New Jersey have furnished the whole, and more ; and 
can Supply no more at any rate therefore you will see the Necessity of the 
other states exerting themselves. I hope other states will be better able 
to Comply with the requisitions than I think Rhode Island is. At the same 
time I cannot doubt her exerting herself even beyond her ability and 
thereby come nearer furnishing the Supply demanded then some other 
states better able as often hath been the Case 

Your 'Excellency will receive by the barer of this or soon be informed, 
of a Warrant on Mr. Clark for the States proportion of 10,000,000 of 
Dollars, ordered by a Resolution of Congress of the 19th of last Month, 
Also the States proportion of Bills of Exchange drawn on Mr. Franklin 
and Mr. Jay by order of the aforementioned Resolution,^ which in Conse- 
quence of one of those blunders which in Congress are not looked upon as 
Maricles, have slept until this day, tho at the same time the Treasury Board 
were ordered by the Resolve to forward them without delay.* 

I cannot forbear mentioning that I should be ex [c] ceding happy to hear 
by every convenient opportunity how public matters are going on in the 
state. I am often Called upon in Congress to know what is doing. I can 
only say I have receivd no Inteligence, But have reason to believe the 
State will do every thing in their power 

* This note concerning the resolve relative to loan office certificates is on ai sepa- 
rate slip of paper. It embodies a tabular statement of the scale of depreciation adopted. 
See nos. 281, 286, ante. 

[289]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 5; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 300. 

2 See no. 285, ante. 

2 See nos. 262, 281, ante, 2q8, 341, 366, 382, post. 

* See nos. 305, 306, 308, post. 



July, 1780 247 

290. The Committee at Headquarters to George Washington.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Morris Town June 30, 1780. 
Sir, 

We inclose you copies of our several letters to the States, agreable to the 
inclosed list. 

We must rely on your Excellency's candor and generosity, to excuse 
us for not having done this sooner ; but a variety of business has so con- 
stantly occupied our time, as rendered it impracticable to have copies of 
the whole made out before. 

The committee have as yet received no answers to any of their circular 
letters except from New Jersey, Rhode Island and Delaware, copies of 
which are also enclosed for your information." 

291. The President of Congress to Benjamin Harwood.^ 

Philadelphia July 2, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the act of Congress of the 30th Ulto. herewith enclosed you will be 
informed, that Thomas Plarwood and Benjamin Harwood Esquires are 
appointed Commissioners on the Part of the United States, either of them 
to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the State of Maryland pur- 
suant to the Resolution of Congress of the i8th of March last. 

You will please to observe the same Bills are to be endorsed on the Part 
of the United States but by one Commissioner, tho' two are appointed to 
avoid Delay in Case of the Death, or Inability of one; and it may be con- 
venient for one to endorse all the Bills if practicable without Difficulty.^ 

[290]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed by Mathews and Peabody) ; 
ibui., Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 94 (copy), no. 11, p. 220 (letter-book copy). 

2 July 5 the committee transmitted to Washington copies of other letters received, 
namely, from Delaware and Maryland. See, further, no. 336, post. June 30 Washington 
sent out a circular letter to the states, indicating that it would be unnecessary for the 
militia called for by the committee to be at the place of rendezvous before July 25, 
adding : 

" The present Crisis is by far the most important and delicate that this Country has 
ever experienced, and it pains me in the extreme that we are so backward in all our 
measures. I hope a moment will not be lost in pushing on the Levies to fill the Battal- 
lions. Our Allies would be chagrined, were they to arrive to day, to find that we have 
but a handful of men in the field and would doubt, it is more than probable, whether 
we had any serious intentions to prosecute measures with vigor. If we do not avail 
ourselves of their succour by the most decisive and energetic steps on our part, the aid 
they so generously bring may prove our ruin, and at best it will be in such case among the 
most unfortunate events, next to that of absolute ruin, that could have befallen us." 
Library of Congress, Washington Papers ; Mass. Hist. Soc. Collections, fifth ser., X. 
181; R. I. State Recs., IX. 202; Clinton Papers, V. 897; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 242; Pa. 
Arch,, first ser., VIII. 377. See also the letter to Governor Trumbull June 27 (Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth ser., X. 180; Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 93), and to Presi- 
dent Weare June 30 {ibid., p. 96). 

[291]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels 
of Philadelphia; id. to Thomas Harwood, Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 723. _ 

2 Except for the address the letter to Thomas Harwood (see note i) is identical 
with this. The appointment appears to have been in consequence of a letter from Governor 
Lee of May 26, read June 30, and referred to the board of treasury. See the letter of 
Charles Lee, secretary to the board, to Governor Lee July 4, in Arch, of Md., XLV. 5. 



248 Continental Congress 

292. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[July 4, 1780.] 
4. Anniversary of our independence. Congress attended the public com- 
mencement and had a cold collation with a number of Gent." I wrote to 
the town of Danvers and to Col. Hutchinson. 

293. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress.^ 

Head quarters Totoway July 5, 1780. 
Sir, 

The Inclosed packet was brought here by a person who could give no 
Information whence It came further than that he received It at Kings 
ferry. As It might contain advices that the french fleet was arrived or on 
the point of arriving, I considered It Incumbent on me as a member of 
Congress and one of their Committee (my Colleagues not being present) 
to risk opening It, that If It contained such advices as the Commander In 
Chief ought decidedly to be acquainted of and without delay, I might be 
in Condition to afford the Information. I hope the reason I have assigned 
for the liberty I have taken will be Satisfactory to Congress. As the dis- 
patch contained nothing which It was Immediately necessary for the Gen- 
eral to know I shall be silent on the occasion — perhaps It may be for the 
public Interest that the Committee should be expressly authorized to open 
Letters from Europe Officially directed to Congress at this Important 

[2g2]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 94. 

2 " Yesterday being the Anniversary of the declaration of AMERICAN INDE- 
PENDENCE, it was observed as a Day of Joy and Festivity " {Pennsylvatiia Journal, 
July 5). The Pennsylvania Packet of July 8 contains an extended account of the com- 
mencement exercises : 

" On Tuesday the fourth instant, being the anniversary of the Great American Oera, 
a Commencement for Degrees in the Arts was held in the Hall of the University, which 
was honoured with the presence of his Excellency the President and the Hon. Congress ; 
his Excellency the President of the State and the Hon. the Council; his Excellency 
C. Luzerne, Minister Plenipotentiary of his Most Christian Majesty, and his family; and 
the several Public Boards ; and a most genteel, respectable, and brilliant assembly of 
Ladies and Gentlemen, both foreigners and citizens : The Festivity was introduced with 
a band of Music, which began to play as the Trustees entered the Hall, and continued 
until they and the Faculty were seated." 

One feature of the exercises was a dialogue " composed for the occasion " and " suited 
to the times ", the theme being the glorification of America, with liberal condemnation 
of Britain. The characters are Theron, Felix, and Ardentio, the parts being taken by 
three of the graduates, Samuel Sitgreaves, John Caldwell, and Peter Chevalier. A 
brief extract of the dialogue (printed in the issue of July 15) may be permissible: 

"Ardentio Four years has independence (once our fear) 

Stood like a rock against the rage of Britain. 
Theron. And may it stand united in its parts, 

As long as stands the world. 
Felix. How like a tree just planted in the soil, 

And striking root, did independence bear 

The black and bellowing blasts of seventy-six. 
Ardentio. The shaking did her good, 

And fixt her but the faster in her place. 
Theron. May ev'ry shaking have the same effect. 
Ardentio. And so it ever will." 
[293]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153, vol. III., f. 533. 



July, lySo 249 

Juncture when a want of one days Information to the Commander In 
Qiief may be attended with serious Consequences." 

294. Philip Schuyler to the President of Congress.'- 

Head Quarters near Pasaich falls 

July 6th 1780. 
Sir, 

The Commander in chief has suggested the propriety of Investing the 
Committee here with power to Call any of the Continental ships of war 
which may be In the adjacent seas to such points as the exegency of the 
Service may require ; That their aid will be necessary In the prosecution 
of the Intended operation is beyond a doubt and the delay which must of 
course take place from a previous application to the admiralty to direct 
them to a Compliance with the wishes of the General may prove so detri- 
mental that I conceive It ought not be risqued. 

As the subsistance money to the officers of the line for the retained 
rations has not been paid for some time past, they are reduced to great 
distress, and have become exceedingly uneasy — remonstrances have been 
on foot and would already have been transmitted to Congress, had not 
the prudent Intervention of the General prevented the Inc[l]osure for the 
present. I apprehend the Committee will be under the necessity of direct- 
ing the Commissaries to furnish those In actual service with all the rations 
they are Intitled to, until the pleasure of Congress is known, permit me 
Sir to suggest the necessity of some decision on the Subject by Congress." 

295. Philip Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Head quarters Totaway 

July 6th 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

A slight Indisposition retarded my return from Windsor until Yester- 
day, Since my arrival at this place the General has made me communica- 
tions on some matters which will claim the Earliest attention of the Com- 
mittee. I have therefore to Intreat you to repair hither as soon as possible." 

If you can find any Short forrage at Morris Town It will be prudent 
to bring as much with you as you conveniently can as none is to be pro- 
cured here. 

2 At the time this letter was read in Congress, July 10, a number of despatches 
were presented, but whether all of them were included in the packet there is nothing 
to indicate. Cf. no. 307, post. For a second instance in which the committee opened 
despatches directed to Congress see no. 328, post. 

[294]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 109. 

2 jhis letter was read in Congress July 10, and the part relating to Continental 
ships of war ("frigates") was that day referred to the board of admiralty. July 11 the 
part relating to subsistance of the army was referred to the board of treasury. The 
board's report thereon was brought in July 18 and adopted. Thomson endorsed on the 
letter the first reference but not the second. Touching the matter of the last paragraph 
see no. 322, post. 

[295]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 153., vol. IIL, f. 537, no. li, p. 
280 (letter-book copy). 

2 See nos. 278, 283, ante. 



250 Continental Congress 

296. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia July 8, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 7th In- 
stant, recommending to the State of Maryland to grant Permission to such 
Agent as the Minister of France shall appoint to purchase in that State 
any Quantity of Flour not exceeding three thousand Barrels and ship 
the same to such of the Spanish Colonies in the West Indies as he may 
direct. 

This Recommendation is founded on the special Request of his Catholic 
Majesty through the Minister of France to supply the Spanish Arma- 
ment lately arrived in the West Indies 

The Minister of France I have no Doubt from his Prudence and good 
Intentions to serve these States will direct the Purchase in such Manner 
as shall be most agreeable to you, and best prevent any ill Consequences 
arising therefrom. 

There is no Room to doubt from the Nature of the Case, this Request 
will be complied with if the Flour can be spared from the State of 
Maryland." 

297. John Armstrong to John Davis.^ 

Phil ADA. 8th July 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

For these few days past this place affords but little news. The Enemy 
remain at Philips's House on the N side of Hudsons River, but have yet 
made no attempt toward West point. A private letter from Baltimore 
brings intelligence that a French as well as a Spanish Fleet (of the latter 
we heard some time ago) is arrived at Martinique — but for what purpose, 
or exactly of what size we have not yet learned 

The Governors of South Carolina and Georgia are both here which is 
very wrong, but Governor Rutledge will suddenly return.- In a New Plan 
for the Or. Masters Department now before Congress It is proposed that 
only one Assistant Or. M : Gl. will be allow'd — and he to reside near Con- 
gress. One Deputy Or. ^Master in each State to procure Carriages etc. 

[296]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 50; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
VIL 55 ; Arch, of Md., XLV. 8. 

2 The request of the minister of France was in a note of June 28 (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., IIL 822), read in Congress July i. The report of the committee to 
whom it was referred is ibid., July 7. See Luzerne to Governor Lee July 18 (Arch, of 
Md., XLV. 15), in which he states that he has engaged "Mr. Thomas [i.e., Robert] 
Morris Nezoriant [Negociant] " of Philadelphia to take charge of the business. A letter 
from Morris to Governor Lee the same day is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 6. 
Morris in turn designated William Smith of Baltimore as purchasing agent. A number 
of items in Arch, of Md., XLV., pertain to this matter. 

[297]! Library of Congress, Papers of John Davis. 

2 The governor of Georgia, Richard Howly, was attending Congress as a dele- 
gate (see the Journals, July 6). The governor of South Carolina, John Rutledge, together 
with many other South Carolinians, had come to Philadelphia after the fall of Charles- 
ton. In the passage omitted Armstrong discussed the situation in South Carolina. 



July, lySo 251 

he is to be named by the Qr. Master Genl. but must be approved by the 
Supreme Council of each State and the Board of War — he will have Clerks 
or assistants, but without Forage or Rations. No Forage Master farther 
to be allowed but with the Army. The pay of this State Or. Master is 
not yet fixed. In Pennsylvania he will have much Work. Who will Genl. 
Greene pitch on for this State ? It is not yet known whether he will serve, 
but as the System is only designed for the Campaign, it's thought he 
will — his pay is to be about 15 hundred a Year or at the rate thereof in 
hard money including his pay as Major General.' 

Mrs. Armstrong has wrote me for £150 and I cannot send her one 
pound, but have referred her to you.^ .... 

298. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia July 9th 1780. 
Sir, 

.... I allso, inclose you " the proceedings upon the motion I made 
in Congress, for a Warrant to Issue in favour of the State for 300,000 
dollars. I only wait a favourable opportunity to renew my Motion. How 
far I shall succeed I cannot Say. The bills of Exchange I mentioned in my 
last ' that would be sent to the State are again stopt by a Quarrel be- 
tween the Treasury Board and Keeper of the Loan Office in this Citty.* 
there is such a fatallity attends them that I despare of any being Sent. 
Delicacy forbids my mentioning the constant obstructions our publick 
business meets with, by the Quarrels and petty disputes that are subsist- 
ing between the Several Boards and Civil officers serving under Congress, 
of which there is by far two large a Number I am Confident more than 
the Continent can maintain. It would surprise you to see the Constant 
grants that are made them. Many members wish to lessen their Numbers, 
they are appointed and have their friends and how to get rid of them is 
the question.^ .... 

3 Greene wrote to Davis July 9, discussing at some length the delay in Con- 
gress in framing the measure for the quartermaster's department, and explaining his 
own situation and attitude (Library of Congress, Papers of John Davis). See no. 318, 
post. 

*John Davis, deputy quartermaster-general, was stationed at Carlisle, which 
was Armstrong's home. 

[298]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 7; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 301. 

2 Preceding this passage Cornell mentioned enclosing newspapers, adding that 
Congress had received no despatches for a week past. 

2 June 30 (no. 289, ante). 

* This was the quarrel between Francis Hopkinson, treasurer of loans, and 
Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson, commissioners of the treasury. See no. 176, note 2, 
ante. 

^ Cf. no. 341, post. 



252 Continental Congress 

299. Samuel Adams to John Adams.^ 

Philadelphia July 10 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

I wrote to you several Times when I was at Boston, and receivd your 
Favor by the Marquis de la Fayette. Another to which you referrd me, 
has not yet come to hand. This letter will be deliverd to you by Mr. 
Searle,^ a Member of Congress for the State of Pennsylvania. He will 
be better able to inform you of the State of things here, than I can, who 
after twelve Months Absence from this City, returnd but a few days ago. 
.... The french Fleet is not yet arrivd. Perhaps their long Passage may 
turn out for the best. An earlier Arrival might have found us not alto- 
gether prepared to cooperate with them to the best Advantage. I now 
think we shall be ready to joyn them. One would think the Exertion 
which America might make with such Aid, would rid us of British Bar- 
barians. I hope this will be a vigorous and an effective Campaign. I left 
Massachusetts exceedingly active in filling up their Battalions by Drafts, 
besides raising 4000 Militia for the Service. 

Mr Laurens arrivd here from the Southward a few Days past. He will 
speedily embark for Holland to prosecute a Business which you are not 
unacquainted with. Adieu my dear Sir. 

Yr. affectionate Friend 

300. James Lovell to Charles W. F. Dumas. ^ 

Philadelphia, July 10, 1780. 
Sir: 

I know not how I can profess all the regard which I feel for you with- 
out appearing, on the one hand, to do it upon slight grounds, or, on the 
other, to have delayed it too long. 

I have been steadily in Congress, without once visiting my family in 
Boston, since January, 1777, and from May, that year, have been a mem- 
ber of the committee of foreign affairs ; consequently, I am well informed 
of your truly republican spirit, your particular affection for these States, 
and your industry in their service, most of your numerous letters, down 
to December 30, 1779, having come to hand. 

The honorable gentleman who will deliver this, being also a member 
of Congress, has a just esteem for you, and promises himself much ad- 
vantage from an opportunity of conversing with you. Mr. Searle is well 
able to make a due return of the benefits from the fund of his intimacy 
with American state affairs, his extensive commercial knowledge, and his 
science of mankind, gained by former travels." 

I shall shortly write to you again by another respectable gentleman of 
our assembly,^ and I will use every means to make him the bearer of what 

[299]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 199. 

- See nos. 300, 308, 309, post. 
[300]! Wharton, j^^v. Dipt. Corr., III. 842. 

~ James Searle. Cf. no. 299, ante, and nos. 308, 309, post. 

3 Probably Henry Laurens is meant. 



July, I /So 253 

you have so rightfully solicited, as a faithful first correspondent of our 
committee, from whom you will, probably, have regular official letters 
under a new arrangement of a secretaryship, which has been vacant from 
the days of a confusion excited by an indiscreet and illiberal publication 
here on the 5th of December, 1778, and which you have read with grief. 
In the mean time I hope you will receive kindly this individual testi- 
mony of cordial friendship, from, sir, your very humble servant, 

James Lovell. 

301. The Committee at Headquarters to the President of 

Congress/ 

In Committee of Congress, State of New Jersey, 

Preakness, July 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

The Commander in Chief, having laid before this Committee letters 
from the Quarter Master General, and Commissary General of Forage, 
respecting tents and forage, which appeared to be matters of such vast 
consequence, as induced us to address the States, south of Delaware, to 
Virginia, inclusive, on the subject of the latter, and the associated Mer- 
chants of Philadelphia, on the former.^ 

The scarcity of flour in the states North of Delaware; the little proba- 
bility of any effectual supply from these States, for a very considerable 
time beyond harvest, as many of the inhabitants will be taken off, by mili- 
tia duty, either with the Army, to protect the frontiers, or be imployed in 
the necessary transportation, excites a wish, that the associated Merchants 
should lay out and forward the whole amount of their fund in that article. 
But the danger and distress which the army will be exposed to, for want 
of tents, should it operate in a part of the Country, where there are no 
materials for a substitute, is so evident, that it admits of no alternative, 
and obliges us to call on them for a supply; we have, however, only re- 
quested one thousand, in hopes that some may be procured from the Navy 
Board at Boston. It is probable the Commander in Chief will address the 
eastern Merchants, to afford their aid, on the occasion, and to extend it 
to the article of sand bags, and knapsacks, the former of which, in a 
serious operation, seem almost indispensible ; especially if the Army should 
operate in a part of the Country so destitute of wood, that gabions and 

[301]! Library ^f Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 109 (original, signed 
by Schuyler and Peabody), f. in (corrected copy), no. 11, p. 28 (letter-book copy) ; 
ibid., Washington Papers. 

2 The committee's circular is no. 302, post, the letter to the associated merchants 
"0- 303, post. The letters from Greene were probably those of July 7 and 8. The first 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 255, no. 11, p. 323, copy) enclosed a letter from 
Clement Biddle, July 6 (ibid., f. 259 and p. 324, respectively), and discussed the shortage 
of forage and also the general situation in his department. " The present channel, in 
which the public business is transacted ", he says, " appears to be well calculated to pro- 
duce disappointment; and if the object of Government had been to disgrace those at the 
heads of the great departments, no measures could have been better adapted to the pur- 
pose." The letter of July 8 (Washington Papers) relates to tents, etc. See Washington 
to Congress, July 10 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 336; Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, fifth 
ser., X. 184). Washington's letter was read in Congress July 13, that of the committee 
July 14. See the Journals, July 18, and nos. 310, 313, 326, post. 



254 Continental Congress 

fascines cannot be procured, without great expense and labour. Perhaps, 
Sir, it might not be improper for Congress to give assurances that if any 
associations should take place, to the Eastward, to furnish the articles we 
have mentioned, or any others, necessary for the service, the associators 
should in point of security, for their disbursements, be put on the same 
footing with those in Pensylvania. Should the house be in sentiment with 
us on this subject, a speedy communication of their determination may 
tend to expedite the business. 

The uncertain footing on which the Officers in the Quarter Master 
Generals department now stand, will occasion many to resign, unless their 
stipends are ascertained. It is therefore much to be wished, that an imme- 
diate determination of Congress on the arrangement of that department, 
should be conveyed to the General, or the committee. We do not allude 
merely to a system for conducting it ; for how can one [be j adopted that 
will apply to contingencies, remote, and which no human penetration can 
foresee, or guard against ? To direct the movement of supplies to be drawn 
from such a variety of sources, and by the different channels which the 
very nature of state supplies renders unavoidable, and through the agency 
of state officers, unaccountable to the military, or, to one conducting body, 
will be a task infinitely arduous, and we fear it will not be effectually done, 
even with the best exertions of the public Officers, without the frequent 
intervention of Congress, by some of its members repairing as occasion 
may require, to this or that State, to give countenance, aid, and advice to 
the agents. 

Should the quantity of flour, and short forage, accumulated on the 
banks of Delaware, exceed the means of transportation by land, would it 
not be advisable to take measures for speedily collecting a number of 
Vessels to convey it to the Bay of New York, should the French fleet gain 
that point, and the passage from Delaware thither, be rendered safe by 
any ships of War which might be appointed to convey the provision 
transports. 

P. S. The committee have done themselves the honor to inclose your 
Excellency copy of the address alluded to in the above written letter. 

302. The Committee at Headquarters to the States of Delaware, 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakness, New Jersey, July 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

The Commander in Chief, having laid before this Committee, letters 
from the quarter master general, and Commissary General of forage, 
stating the necessity of immediately forming a magazine of short forage, 
in the vicinity of Hudsons river ; It will readily occur to your excellency, 

[302]! Library Qf Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 68, no. 39., vol. III., f. 53; 
ibid., Washington Papers; Md. Hist. Soc, LXXXVII. 187; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 
404. 



July, 1780 255 

that without this article, the necessary transportation to convey the variety 
of stores incident on a large operating Army, cannot be maintained. They 
have therefore to intreat your earliest attention to expedite the orders for 
forwarding, the quantity required of your state, by the Committee.- This 
state, by supplying the Army during the winter, and to the present hour, 
is intirely exhausted. The failure of crops last year, in the state of New 
York, and the drafts made from it, for the support of the Cattle at West 
Point, have rendered that state incapable of furnishing any for the pres- 
ent, so that our main reliance, at least until some time after the present 
crop is gathered, must be on the States south of Delaware. 
We have the honor to be, with great respect, 

Your Excellency's most Obt. Hble. Servts. 

Ph'p Schuyler 
Nathl. Peabody 

Circular to the States of Delaware, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Vir- 
ginia.^ 

To the State of Virginia, in lieu of what is underscored. 

forwarding so much of the quantity required of your state, as can pos- 
sibly be spared agreable to the resolution of Congress, permitting you to 
retain what should be necessary for the southern operations.* 

303. The Committee at Headquarters to a Committee 
OF THE Citizens of Philadelphia.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakness, New Jersey, July 10, 1780. 
Gentlemen: 

The scarcity of flour in the States North of the Delaware, the little 
probability that they will be in a condition to furnish any until some con- 
siderable time beyond harvest, induces a wish that the whole amount of 
the fund you have, with such patriotic generosity created for the relief 
of your Country at this critical juncture, should iDe expended in the pur- 
chase and transportation of that article, but the exceeding distress the 
Army would experience for a want of Tents, and the little probability of 
procuring an adequate supply in any other quarter, obliges the Committee 
to intreat you to appropriate part of the fund in the purchase of one thou- 
sand Soldiers Tents. The General has requested the Committee to take 
measures for obtaining this necessary article with every possible degree of 
dispatch.^ 

2 Not underscored in the letters sent, but in the retained copies, to indicate the 
words to be displaced in the Virginia letter by the passage appended. 

2 See the letter to Congress, no. ,301, ante. 

* Presumably the resolution of June 17. 
[303] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 262 (letter-book copy), 
no. 39, vol. I., f. 113 (draft) ; ibid., Washington Papers. 

2 Concerning the fund raised by the citizens of Philadelphia see nos. 246, 255, 
259, 261, 264, 275, 281, ante; cf. nos. 310, 316, 326, post. 



256 Continental Congress 

We have the honor to be, with the highest consideration of esteem, 
Gentlemen, 

Your Most obt. and very H. Servts, 

P. Schuyler 
Nathl, Peabody 
To the Gentlemen of Philadelphia 
appointed to procure and forward Supplies to the Army.^ 

304. John Walker to George Weedon,^ 

Philada., July nth, 1780. 
Dear General: 

.... The French fleet, we are informed by the Baltimore papers, has 
arrived at Martozines [Martinique]. I think that by forming- a junction 
with the other French and Spanish forces in that quarter our relentless 
foes may be more suddenly and vitally wounded than on the continent. 
Their united fleets in the West Indies will not be far short of fifty sail of 
the line with about 30,000 troops. With such a force as this, what is to 
prevent their immediately possessing themselves of all the British isles in 
those seas ? This being done, the continental business will not be difficult. 
On the other hand, should they come immediately here, we shall be found 
so shamefully unprepared to co-operate with them, that I fear it will serve 
only to reflect disgrace on us and render us unworthy of their notice in 
future 

By dispatches just received from Europe our affairs in that quarter wear 
on the general face of them a very favourable aspect; a little more time 
and perseverance will assuredly confirm our Independence, and unless we 
are greatly deficient in virtue (which by the bye I fear) will render us a 
happy and respectable people 

305. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin 

AND John Jay.^ 

Philada. July nth, 1780. 
Hon'ble John Jay ' (^" Com'tee for for'gn Affairs) 

Sir: 

Congress having appointed the Honble Henry Laurens to solicit a Loan 
of Money in the L^nited Provinces of the Low Countries, In order to 

3 This letter, together with the other letters of the committee of this date (nos. 
301, 302, mite), appear to have been sent by Lafayette under cover to Luzerne: " Je 
joins ici, Monsieur le chevalier, plusieurs lettres que je vous prie de vouloir bien faire 
remettre Celles du g'al Schuyller sont tres pressees et contiennent des demandes rela- 
tives a la cooperation." Lafayette to Lucerne July 10, Am. Hist. Rev., XX. 363. 

[304]^ Seventy-Six Society, Publications: Maryland Papers, p. 112. Addressed, "Gen- 
eral Geo. Weedon, Fredericksburg. Virginia ". 

[305P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVIIL, no. 23 (marked "Copy J. L."), 
addressed, " Honorable John Jay Esqr. Minister Plenio. of the United States of America 
Madrid " ; Library of Congress, Papers Cent. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, p. 266 ; Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 846 (to Franklin). The letter is signed by Lovell and Houston. 
2 The letter in Wharton (Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 846), which is addressed to 
Franklin, has only minor variations. The letter-book (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79), 
presumably the source of the printed text, has a single copy for the two. 



July, 1780 257 

facilitate his Success the enclosed Resolution has been passed. We need 
say nothing to explain or urge it, except that it is thought a mark of At- 
tention and Confidence due to those Powers named in it; that their Inter- 
est, if the State of Politics inclines them to exert it, will have a good 
Effect ; and that the Want of Money makes this Loan a very capital Object 
to the United States. 

You will, we are assured, give Mr. Laurens every assistance in your 
Power, and solicit the countenance of the Court where you reside to for- 
ward his Xegociations.^ 

Till ]Mr. Laurens shall arrive Mr. Adams is commissioned and empow- 
ered to undertake that Business and in Case of his Disability Mr. Dana 
is in like manner commissioned and empowered.* 

306. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philada. II July 1780. 
Sir, 

After the repeated Remonstrances you have made to Congress on the 
Subject of Bills of Exchange the inclosed Resolution we are well aware, 
will need an Apology. We regret that you should have so much Trouble 
and be put upon so many Expedients in Matters of this Kind, well know- 
ing how delicate a Point it is to solicit further Advances after so many 
have already been made. Congress attending to your Letters and Repre- 
sentations have taken this Step with Reluctance But the present crisis 
when not only the Preparations for a vigorous Campaign call for large 
Expenditures but the Expectation of a cooperating Force make great Ad- 
ditions necessary, has induced Them to risque the Sum mentioned. The 
Bills will not be drawn faster than indispensible Exigencies may require, 
and it is to be hoped that this mode of commanding Cash will not be again 
resorted to.^ 

3 Cj. no. 306, post. Laurens was chosen, Oct. 21, 1779, to negotiate a loan in Hol- 
land, and Nov. i following was elected commissioner to negotiate a treaty of amity and 
commerce with that country. For proceedings relative to the mission see the Journals, 
Oct. 15, 18, 21, 26, 30, Nov. I, 5, 6, 8, 1779; also vol. IV. of these Letters (index, Nether- 
lands). Laurens had not hitherto been successful in his efforts to proceed upon his 
mission and was at this time in Philadelphia making preparations to that end. See the 
Journals, July 3, 6, 8. 10, and no. 308, post. The resolution said to be enclosed was no 
doubt that of Nov. 8, 1779. That resolution assigned to the committee that prepared 
the instructions to Laurens the further duty of drafting a letter to the ministers to the 
courts of Versailles and Madrid respecting Laurens's mission, but that committee does 
not appear to have reported such a letter. See Lovell's remarks in the close of the letter 
to Jay, no. 308, post. May 31 the committee of foreign affairs was instructed to write 
the letters. 

* See the Journals. June 20. 
[306]^ .A.m. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XX. 52 (marked "3d Copy"); Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Con-.. 111. 846. The letter is signed by Lovell and Houston. 

- This letter appears to be a belated compliance with the instructions of May 31. 
See the Journals, May 19, 31 ; cf. no. 305, ante, and nos. 308, 309, post. The bills of 
exchange drawn on Laurens and jay in accordance with the order of Nov. 23, 1779 (see 
these Letters, vol. IV., pp. xxxii, 525, 529, 531, 532), to say nothing of earlier bills, had 
given Franklin no little worry. Some of those on Laurens in particular were at this 
moment turning up in Europe and clamoring for payment, while that gentleman had not 
yet arrived and his fate was still unknown (he had been captured at sea Sept. 3 ; see 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 56; see also ibid., III. 467, 721, 735, 739, 741, 752, 771, 



258 Continental Congress 

307. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to John Adams.^ 

Philadelphia ii July 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Letters of the 3rci and 3 of the 4th of April last were received in 
Congress yesterday. We are to thank you for the intelligence they com- 
municate.^ 

P. S. Aug. I. Your various Letters by Mr. Izard were this day read, 
of dates from March 20th to the 29th. That of the 24th respecting two 
points on which you ask instructions is committed specially to five.^ 

J. L. 

P. S. Oct. 28. The Journal of Sepr. will show the receipt of your 
communications up to June loth.* 



P. S. Dec. p. I add a list of receipts and dates. 



J.L. 



774, 784, 803, 817, IV. II, 15, 47, 80, 86, 175). Other correspondence between Franklin 
and jean de Neufville and Son concerning these bills is to be found in the various col- 
lections of Franklin Papers. One such letter, from Franklin to Neufville and Son, dated 
July 21, 1780, was printed in the Washington Star May i, 1919, under the heading 
" Revolutionary Liberty Loan ", accompanied by some account of a claim of the Neuf- 
villes arising out of these bills, together with some curious remarks concerning the 
identity of " M. Laurens ". 

Another letter from the committee of foreign affairs to Franklin, July li (Library 
of Congress, Franklin Papers, no. 609 ; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XX. 52, " 3d 
Copy"; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 845), conveys the sentiments of Congress con- 
cerning the conduct of M. Chasseaulx ("Chezault") set forth in a resolve of May 31. 
The third copies of these letters (in Am. Phil. Soc.) appear to have been transmitted by 
Lovell with his letter of Oct. 28 (no. 494, post). 

In Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 848, and in John Adams's Works, VII. 218, is a 
letter from the committee to John Adams, dated July 12, mentioning an enclosed descrip- 
tion of the bills of exchange and accompanying " secret checks ", with the added state- 
ment that the quality of the paper was sorry, therefore " unless the impression of the 
bills is very fine and clean, it will be very difficult to discover the whole of the secret 
checks perfectly". In the letter-book copy (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. 270) 
this letter is addressed to Jay and Adams jointly. 

[307] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. 275; Adams, Works, 
VII. 218; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 847. Of the postcripts, only that of Aug. i 
is in the printed texts. The letter is signed by Lovell and Houston. 

2 Two letters dated Apr. 3 are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 588, 593, and 
one dated Apr. 4 is ibid., p. 596. These and two others dated April 4 are in Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 84, vol. I., ff. 387-416. They were numbered by Adams from " Letter LXX " 
consecutively to " Letter LXXIV ", and four of them are endorsed as received July 19, 
1780. One of those dated April 3 (Letter LXXI, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 593) is endorsed 
as read Sept. n. The letters received July 10 are doubtless those found in the packet 
which came mysteriously into Schuyler's hands (see no. 293, ante, and nos. 328, 335, post). 

3 See the Journals, Aug. i. Letters dated Mar. 20, 23, 24 (two), 26, and 29 are 
in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 561, 568, 570, 572, 573. 578. Concerning letters of Mar. 
8, 18, 19 {ibid., pp. 539, 557, 560) see no. 328, post. The letter in which Adams asked for 
instructions is at p. 572. See the Journals. Aug. 3, Oct. 7, 9, 18. 

4 For a separate letter of Oct. 28 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 107) see no. 
494, post. 

5 The several postscripts were presumably added to successive copies of the 
letter. 



July, 1780 259 

308. James Lovell to John Jay.^ 

July nth, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

By a letter from Messrs. Gardoqui and Sons, of May 3d, received yes- 
terday I have the pleasure of knowing you were then well.- In a post- 
script to one of his former of February 24th, the P. S. not dated, he says 
he hears of you every week. This creates a chagrin, as we have none of 
your favours later than March 3d. You are not to suppose that I dare to 
complain ; I have read my Bible to better purpose. I am not entitled to 
throw the " first stones," but I have as good a title as anybody to palliate 
my own faults, and to shift them upon others. There is said to be a com- 
mittee of foreign affairs. Each member is loaded with a variety of busi- 
ness ; two have amiable wives near Philadelphia ; I miss the gentlemen, 
therefore, frequently. Mr. Livingston is now absent, but you have, here- 
with, a letter he sent to my care a few days ago. The weather is murder- 
ous hot, and I cannot go up and down to the offices, in search of those 
authenticated papers, which ought to be regularly forwarded to you, and 
other dignified officers abroad.^ You will be pleased therefore to know 
from me, individually, and by way of a resolve of Congress of June 21st, 
certified by me, that Mr. Dohrman, of Lisbon, is appointed our agent in 
Portugal.* 

Mr. Searle is the bearer of this, via France, and Mr. Laurens will either 
go for Holland in the same ship, the Jay, or will sail in a few days by 
another opportunity for Holland. The former gentleman is on business 
for the State of Pennsylvania, and perhaps, for some mercantile com- 
panies also.^ You already know Mr. Laurens is to negotiate a loan. Indeed, 
an instruction was given to a committee to bring in a draft of a letter to 
the ministers plenipotentiary of these States at Versailles and Madrid, 
directing them to inform his most Christian and Catholic Majesty of the 
appointment of Mr. Laurens, and to solicit the aid of their majesties, 
respectively, on this occasion.® 
I am, Sir, 

your friend and very humble servant 

James Lovell 

[308]! William Jay, Life of John Jay, II. 56; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 847. 

2 The committee letter-book (no. 79, vol. I., p. 266) contains the following letter 
to Gardoqui and Sons, dated July 11: 

Your letters of the 24th February and 3 of May last were yesterday received in 
Congress. We are to thank you for the intelligence communicated by them " (signed by 
Lovell and Houston). 
A letter from Gardoqui and Sons, Feb. 24, had been read in Congress May 11. 

8 July 10 Congress ordered that copies of letters from Governor Galvez, Oliver 
Pollock, et^ al. (see no. 217, ante) be transmitted to Jay, but there is no indication in the 
committee's correspondence that this was done. For Jay's reply see no. 494, note 3, post. 
* Arnold Henry Dohrman. See the Journals, June 21, and the letter to him 
July II (Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr.. III. 845). Mar. 12, 1781, Lovell again wrote Dohrman, 
to say that it had never been learned whether any copy of the letter of July 11 had been 
received, and that accordingly a fifth copy was now sent "by the good opportunity of 
Mr. Harrison ". Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. 279. 
^ See no. 300, ante, and no. 309, post. 
^ See no. 305, ante. 



260 Continental Congress 

309. The President of Congress to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia July 12, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... Mr. Searle will present you with Bills to the x^mount of one 
thousand Pounds Sterling drawn by Order of Congress, in Favour of the 
President and Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, upon their 
Minister at the Court of Versailes 

I lament the Necessity which hath occasioned so many Draughts upon 
you and hope the Afifairs of these United States may soon be regulated 
in such Manner as to prevent the like Necessity in future ^ 

.... Your Letters of the 30th of September, 4th of October and 17th 
of October 1779 and 4th of March 1780 have been received and laid before 
Congress.^ 

310. Ezekiel Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, July 13th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... A letter was this day read in Congress from Genl. W^ashington, 
setting forth the great want of Marques and Tents Also another from 
the Q. M. G., stating the Cost of the number wanted, at the same time 
representing, that it was out of his power to procure them, for want of 
Money. Genl. Washington, expressed an earnest desire, if Congress could 
not furnish the money, that they would recommend to the Merchants 
of the four N. England states to furnish them, in the same manner that 
the Merchants of this City furnished provision and Rum for the Army. 
The letter is refered to a Committee of all the N. England delegates. They 
have not made any report. But am ready to believe they will report, in 
favour of the plan proposed by the General, for it is out of the power of 
Congress, to furnish them, without the immediate assistance of the States 
or individuals. Should Congress adopt a plan that should appear Gener- 
ous, I flatter myself the Merchant in New England will be as ready to 
lend a helping hand as those in Philadelphia. z\nd those in Rhode Island 
according to their ability, among the foremost." 

[309]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. XIX., no. 18; Paris, Aff. Etr., E. U. 
13 : 23. The letter is not in the President's Letter-Book. 

2 See the Journals, July 6, 10, 11 ; cf. nos. 300, 305, 306, 308, ante. James Searle, 
who was going primarily on a mission for the state of Pennsylvania, was the bearer of 
other letters. See nos. 299, 300, 308, ante. A letter from him to the President of Con- 
gress, written at sea Aug. 18, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 514. He arrived in 
Paris Sept. 10. See Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 60, 61, 73, 87 ; cf. no. 482, frost. For 
some account of his mission, together with correspondence concerning it, see the Life of 
Joseph Reed, II. 246, 286, 293, 450-465. Additional correspondence (with one or two dupli- 
cations) is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 399, 532, 625, IX. 62, 311, 367, 519, 564, 589. 

3 Of these letters of Franklin that of Sept. 30 was read in Congress Feb. 23, those 
of Oct. 4 and 17 on Mar. 4, and that of Mar. 4 on May 15. 

[310]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governor, 1780, p. 7; Staples, R. J. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 302. 

2 The committee of New England delegates made its report July 18. See no. 
301, ante, and nos. 311-313, 326, post. Washington's letter of July 10 is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VIII. 2>2,^, and R. I. State Rccs., IX. 205. 



July, 1780 261 

I beg your Excellency will excuse me, I cannot help entreating in the 
most earnest manner, that you will communicate to me, as often as con- 
venient, all publick transaction of the State. I am repeatedly called on by 
Congress and the Members, to know what the little State of Rhode Island 
is doing, in this time of distress. I have only been able to say, that if they 
would judge, from her former Conduct, they had nothing to fear from 
that Quarter. Untill within a few days, when I had the good luck to re- 
ceive the Gazette, Containing the Laws for Emitting £20000, and for 
raising Six hundred and od[d] men for filling up our Continental Battal- 
lions. the whole was highly satisfactory to Congress. They are anxious to 
hear the state hath fully complied with the Resolutions of the i8th of 
March last, especially the delegates from the N. England states.' 

311. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Preakness, State of New Jersey July 13, 1780. 
Sir, 

We have the honor to transmit your Excellency Copy of a letter of this 
date from the Commander in Chief to us, with Copies of ours to all the 
states north of Virginia. A letter we have just been favoured with from 
Governor Jefferson, and which affords us great satisfaction, superceeds 
the necessity of addressing him on the present occasion.^ 

The states have been individually called upon for such portions of the 
supplies, they were required to furnish by the Act of Congress of the 25th 
Feby. as these [sic'\ situation with respect to the point against which it is 
in Contemplation to direct the military operations of the Campaign, and 
their then, and present abilities, indicated to be not only proper but neces- 
sary and indispensible. The same principle prevailed in making the requi- 
sitions for Extra Supplies, and the aggregate of the whole was estimated 
to be barely sufficient effectually to obtain the object in view ; a retrospect 
to the return of what was required from each state, and which was in- 
closed in the letter we had the honor to address Congress on the 2d of 
June last, will evince, that if the state of Pensylvania either will not (which 
we do not suppose) or is not in a condition, to comply with the requisition, 
A Co-operation with the force of our Ally, against any capital object, will 
be clearly impossible, unless. other states can make good the deficiency of 
that, but until the Committee is advised that Pensylvania refuses to com- 
ply or is incapable of furnishing the supplies allotted to it, In the whole 

3 See no. 285, ante, and nos. 314, 331, 232' 396, 397, post. 
[311]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 116, f. 114 (draft by 
Schuyler), no. 11, p. 30. 

- Washington's letter to the committee is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth 
ser., X. 187; R. I. State Recs., IX. 206; Clinton Papers, VI. 10; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VII. 414; Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 344 (part). Jefferson's letter to the committee, 
July 2, is in Writings (ed. Ford), II. 317, and Official Letters, II. I37- The circular 
letter is no. 312, post; the letter to Reed no. 313, post. See also the committee's letters 
of June 2 and 12 (nos. 213, 238-241, ante). 



262 Continental Congress 

or in part, we cannot enter upon a new apportionment of such deficiency 
to the other states. 

We assure you Sir, that altho we have the most Indubitable testimony 
that Governor Reed has received at least some of our letters, yet the state 
has not even deigned to acknowledge the receipt of any one. The Conse- 
quences that may result to the public from this Inattention on the part of 
that state, will so readily and so fully occur to Congress, that we conceive 
it needless to elucidate the subject by any farther observations on it. 

It is incumbent on us to advise Congress unless the state in question 
becomes sensible of the attention which is due to a Committee of Con- 
gress, and conveys the necessary communications to us on the subject of 
our important Mission, that we shall decline addressing them in future, 
Persuaded that we should be culpable in suffering the dignity of the great 
Council of the United States to be wounded thro us, by submitting to 
insult from any.^ 

312. The Committee at Headquarters to the States from New 
Hampshire to Maryland.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Preakness, State of New Jersey July 13, 1780. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to enclose your Excellency copy of a Letter 
of this date, from the Commander in Chief. You Sir, are so fully im- 
pressed with the necessity of improving every moment to promote the 
great object of the present Campaign, It will be needless to aduce any 
arguments in support of the sentiments contained in the Generals Letter. 
Permit us only to observe that in proportion as any state is deficient in the 
number of men and quantum of supplies for the Army, our prospect of 
success will be deminished, and should unhappily your State rely that the 
exertions of other States will be competent to the business and the same 
opinion entertained by others, It is evident that disgrace, and ruin must 
be the portion of this Country. Persuaded that your feelings will revolt 
at the mere Idea, we rely with confidence, that not a moments time will be 
lost, in fulfilling the engagements of your State, and in a perfect compli- 
ance with the requisitions of this Committee, as specif yed in former appli- 
cations for any extra supplies or services. 

Your Excellency will not conclude us too importunate in the repeated 
reiterations on this important subject, as we are convinced that the occa- 
sion will justify us in this address. [Thus far circular] 

3 This letter is signed by Schuyler and Peabody and is endorsed : " Letter trom 
Com'ee at head quarters, July 13, 1780. Read July 17 [thus far by Thomson, remainder in 
another hand] with A. B. C. A. Gen. Washington's letter July 13, B. Circular Letter to the 
States, July 13. C. Letter to Brest. Reed, July 13." 

[312]! Copied from the original (to Delaware), then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. 
Henkels of Philadelphia; Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 55, no. 11, p. 69; Mass. 
Arch., CCIL 332 (to Governor Trumbull) ; ibid., CCIL ^33 (to James Bowdoin) ; Md. 
Hist. Soc, LXXXVn. 188; R I. State Recs., IX. 207; Clinton Papers. VI. 9. 



July, 1 780 263 

To the State of New Hampshire : 

The Committee are so unhappy as not to have been provided with the 
determination of your state upon their various applications, nor have we 
had the least assurances of what is to be expected from them, or even the 
receipt of their applications acknowledged.^ 

313. The Committee at Headquarters to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed).^ 

In Committee of Congress, 
^^y Preakness, State of New Jersey July 13, 1780. 

We should stand fully justified to our Constituents and to the world, 
if we declined any further communications to the state of Pensyvania, on 
the Subject of our mission ; as it has not even acknowledged the receipt of 
any of the letters we have addressed it, altho the importance of this Com- 
mittees being advised of what the state would, or could do, is so evident. 
But incapable of sacrificing the interest of our Country to our own feel- 
ings we once more address you. 

The inclosed copy of a Letter from the Commander in Chief contains 
observations so important to the weal of the United States, that we hope 
they will be seriously considered by yours. We will only observe that in 
proportion as any State is defecient in the number of men, and quantum 
of Supplies, or aids in transportation, our prospect of success will be 
diminished, and should unhappily your State, on whose exertions so much 
depends, rely that those of others will be competent to the business, and 
should it be a fact, as we are persuaded it is, that other states are for the 
present at least incapable of larger aids than those required of them ; It is 
evident that neglect on your part must produce disgrace and ruin to this 
Country, we hope however, that the feelings of your State will revolt at 
the Idea, and that impressed, as it ought to be with the magnitude and 
importance of the common object of the United States, It will be impelled 
to a perfect and immediate compliance with the former requisitions of 
this Committee, and afford us the most explicit assurances on the subject.^ 

314. Samuel Huntington to Oliver W^olcott.^ 

<^. Philadelphia July 14th 1780. 

.... I have been long of Opinion that the Subject of our finances is 
of the greatest Importance, that a fixed and Stable medium must be estab- 

2 A notation on the retained copy and the letter-book copy reads : " Circular, 
To the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New 
York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland." The special paragraph to New Hampshire 
is taken from the draft in no. 39, vol. III., f. 55 (same in no. 11, p. 69). 

[313]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 69, vol. H., f. 254, no. 39, vol. 
III., p. 97 (draft), no. 11, p. 202 (copy). The letter is signed by Schuyler and Peabody. 

2 See nos. 200, 241, 261, ante; also Washington to Reed July 4 {Writings, ed. 
Sparks, VH. 99; Life of Reed, II. 220), Reed to Washington July 15 {ibid., p. 223 ; Letters 
to Washington, ed. Sparks, HI. 15), Reed to Congress July 17 (read in Congress July 19; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VHI. 419), Reed to Greene July 19 {ibid., p. 426), Reed to Con- 
gress July 30 {ibid., p. 458), and the JotirnaJs, July 26. 

1314]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. HI., no. 17. 



264 Continental Congress 

lished and am perswaded had all the States adopted the resolves of the 
1 8th of March with the same dispatch and decision as Connecticutt did, 
we should by this time have been in a great measure Insensibly releived 
from our most pressing difficulties. I have now receivd official Informa- 
tion from all the States as far South as Maryland inclusive (except Rhode 
Island and Delaware,) that they have adopted those Resolves; hope soon 
to receive the like information from Virginia and North Carolina : from 
South Carolina and Georgia in their present unhappy circumstances noth- 
ing of that nature can be expected.^ 

I am happy to be informed that Connecticutt are in so fair a way to 
furnish their Quota of Troops and cannot but hope a Spirit of necessary 
exertion is increasing in general. It is with pleasure I can assure you there 
is greater appearance of it in this State than I have seen for some years, 
and believe should the Armament arive which is now daily expected from 
France we shall see vigorous exertions 

General Gates is ordered to take the Command in the Southern depart- 
ment, and I most devoutly wish his former good Fortune may still attend 
him .... 

315. William Churchill Houston to Moore Furman.^ 

Philada. 14 July 1780. 
Moore Furman, Esq. 
Rute 17. 
On my arrival at Congress I immediately applied to the Committee ap- 
pointed to confer with the Inspectours of the Bank in this City, and ex- 
plained to them as my own Idea the Subject on which we conversed, men- 
tioning also that you were apprehensive of Inconveniences. The Paper 1 
delivered to Mr. Livingston, one of the Committee," who promised to con- 
fer with the Inspectours. He has since been at Trenton and says he has 
called upon Mr. Meredith who explains the matter to him so as to make 
it appear that by loading the waggons deeper and giving them less Time 
to go the Trip, they transport cheaper than the publick officers in the 
Quarter Master General's Department. I am glad you have signified the 

- State compliances with the act of Mar. 18 are recorded in the Journals under 
dates following: Connecticut, May 11; New Hampshire and Massachusetts, May 29; 
New Jersey, June 28; New York, June 2q: Maryland, June 30 (see Arch of Aid., XLIII. 
205, XLV. 5) ; Virginia, Aug. 4; Rhode Island, Aug. 14; Pennsylvania, Aug. 21 (see no. 
396, post ; Reed states that Pennsylvania gave conditional acceptance, in the act of June i, 
But there is no mention of the act in the Journals prior to Aug. 21). Concerning Delaware 
see no. 340, post. For responses to the more general inquiry in the resolve of June 17 see 
no. 270, note 2, ante. See also nos. 285, 288, 310, ante, 331, 333, 357, 396, 397, post. 

[315]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

- A committee, consisting of Ellsworth, Duane, and Scott, was appointed June 
21 to confer with the directors and inspectors of the bank, and made a report June 22. 
July 3 Livingston and Samuel Adams (the name of Houston was first entered, then 
erased) were appointed in the room of Duane and Ellsworth, who were absent. 

Moore Furman was deputy quartermaster-general, stationed at Trenton. For some 
account of his dif!iculties in the early spring see his letters of Mar. 24 and 26 to Charles 
Pettit (Pa. Arch., first ser., VHI. 143, 146). See also the Journals. July 19, 22, 24, and 
no. 352, post. 



July, lySo 265 

Prospects of Difficulty to the Board of War, as they have, I understand, 
a constant intercourse with the Inspectours. I am so exceedingly engaged 
in the Business of Congress, that I have little or no opportunity to attend 
to any Thing out of Doors, but hope the Board of War and Committee 
will not fail to make every necessary representation to the Inspectours, 
that as little interference as possible may be made in the publick Move- 
ments. I expect to be at Trenton early next week. 

I am Sir your very obedt. hble Servant 

Wm Churchill Houston. 

316. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 15, 1780. 
Sir, 

At seven P. M. this Day I am honored with your Excellency's Favour 
of yesterday announcing the Arrival of the French Fleet at Newport, 
believe that Congress will press every Measure in their Power to put the 
Army in a Condition to begin the intended Co-operation with Vigour and 
Efficacy.^ 

Your Letter proposing a Plan to obtain Supplies of Tents etc. from the 
Merchants to the eastward etc. hath been duly received and laid before 
Congress.' 

317. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philada. 15th July 1780. 
Dear General, 

.... Of late the general part of business before Congress is only of 
the Executive kind, two or three Resolutions in the legislative stile I 
shall briefly touch — The manner of paying off the Principal and Interest 
of our borrowed money, and fixing the Era of depreciation to the ist of 
Sepr., 1777, and the progressive depreciation from thence to the i8th of 
March — 80, with Tables shewing the different sums to be received by the 
Creditor according to the time of lending. This resolution I hope will give 
general satisfaction, not being framed on the Skeleton of naked justice, 
which indeed cou'd not be assertained, but in the line of justice self evi- 
dent and illustrious, or if you please, on the scale of liberal policy." The 
Or. Master department has undergone a revisal, and a temporary system 

[316]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Washington's letter of July 14 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 343- Letters to 
Lafayette (July 16), Rochambeau (July 16), and Greene (July 19) on the same sub- 
ject are ibid., pp. 345, 347, 349. The letters are in Writings (ed. Sparks), VII. 107, 
109, no, 112. See also the letters to Rochambeau July 19, and Lafayette July 22 {ibid., 
pp. Ill, 117), and Rochambeau to Washington July 12 {ibid., p. 511). The information 
of the arrival came to Washington through a letter from General Heath, written from 
Providence July ii. Cf. nos. 322, 323, post. Washington also transmitted a plan for 
the inspector general's department. See the Journals, July 17, Aug. 14, 24, Sept. 23, 25, 
Dec. 4, and no. 359, post. 

^ See nos. 301, 303, 310, ante, and no. 326, post. 
[317]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVII. 

- See the Journals, June 28. 



266 Continental Congress 

is framed, some what different from the former, which will be sent you, 
and in which Commissions are laid aside and a Sallary adopted.^ .... 

2ist. The Court Martial has clearly acquitted Dr. Shipen of all the 
charges exhibited agst. him except one for Speculation, in some Articles 
needed by the publick in his own line, for which says the Court he is 
reprehensible. The General having thrown the decision of that matter on 
Congress, we are now tormented with reading the rubish of large bundles 
of testimony, but not yet come to the Doctors defense which will prob- 
ably end, indeed, must end in approving the sentence of the Court Mar- 
tial.* .... 

The promotion of our worthy friend Coll Morgan appears to labour.^ 
it will not rest chiefly with the Govt, and delegates of Virginia. I wish 
him as I do my own son for the present to travel on in the line of duty, 
which when wisely and successfully performed will secure its honors, 
distinct from those arising from Rank. The Board of War have not yet 
reported nothing in the other instance, nor is their determination yet 
known to me, but shall soon be able to find it, and then write, what wou'd 
you think of a Brevet, if at present nothing else cou'd go down?® .... 

I am dear General with perfect respect your Affectionate friend and 
humbl. servt. 

John Armstrong 

General Gates ^ 

318. The Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Preakniss July i6th 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the 14th Instant with several papers Inclosed was deliv- 
ered us this Morning.^ 

2 The system adopted for the quartermaster-general's department is in the Journals, 
July 15. See nos. 128, 258, 294, ante, and nos. 318, 327, 330, 336, 345, 346, 349-351, post. 

* The consideration of the court-martial of Dr. Shippen ran intermittently from 
July 18 to Aug. 18. For some account of the affair see no. 159, note 2, atitc. 

^ See no. 321, post. 

® The reference is to a promotion for Maj. John Armstrong, son of the writer 
of this letter. Cf. no. 250, ante. 

' The letter is endorsed as received Aug. 28. 
[318]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 90 (copy in the 
writing of Schuyler), no. 11, p. 250 (letter-book copy) ; Greene, Life of Greene, II. 310. 

2 In his letter to the committee July 14 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., 
f. 327, no. 39, vol. I., f. 182, copy, no. 11, p. 2'36, copy; Greene, Life of Greene, II. 304-308), 
Greene transmitted a copy of Washington's letter to him of the same day {Writings, 
ed. Ford, VIII. 341, ed. Sparks, VII. 106) instructing him to arrange the quarter- 
master-general's department and put everything in proper train for co-operation with 
the French fleet. He would cheerfully comply, he said, but a correspondence between the 
treasury board and Charles Pettit indicated the purpose of the board to hold him respon- 
sible for his appointments in a very different manner from which he had ever conceived 
himself bound : " Nor would I hold the office upon such a footing for any consideration 
that could be offered me." He had written to Congress June 19 (Greene, Life of Greene, 
II. 288) stating the degree of responsibility that he would assume, " nor shall I agree to 
make a single appointment upon any other footing ". He further refers to a rule of the 
treasury board requiring estimates to accompany applications for money. It would be 



July, 1780 267 

We observe in your letter of the 19th ultimo^ to Congress that you 
have stated the degree of responsibility which you think ought to be re- 
quired of you In the Expenditure of monies in the Quarter Master Gen- 
impossible, he said, to comply with the board's order without foreknowledge of the 
future, and " no person the least acquainted with the nature of the business would have 
thought of such a measure ". 

Neither Greene nor the committee as yet knew, of course, that Congress had adopted 
(July 15) the plan for the quartermaster's department (see no. 317, ante, and nos. 322, 
Z27, 330, 22)(>, 345, 346, 349-351, post). A letter to Greene from Charles Pettit, writ- 
ten from Philadelphia July 13, that is, two days before the final passage of the meas- 
ure, is of interest in this connection : 

" I have lately heard but little said about your letters to Congress and the Treasury 
Board ; with the latter indeed I have no communication but through the Board of 
War. The System for the department has been much debated in Congress, and is yet a 
bone to pick at odd hours. A few days since Genl Cornell dined with me, when he 
shewed me a plan comprized in fewer words than are already in this letter, which he told 
me would probably be substituted in lieu of the system. As well as I remember, for I 
read it hastily in the midst of conversation, it leaves the whole arrangement to the 
Q M G. He is to be responsible for the appointments he makes, that is, that they are 
men of sufficient abilities and character, and for the orders he gives them — they to be 
answerable for the execution of the orders they receive. Touching your responsibility 
in time past I believe there has been much debate, and I do not know that there is any 
decision upon it. Some arguments have been drawn from something you said or wrote 
concerning Col. Hay when in the beginning he supposed his first appointment not super- 
seded on your being created Q M G. It is said you urged that it was because you were 
made responsible for the Deputies which made it necessary that you should choose and 
appoint them. This I had from Mr. Livingston, who mentioned it to me one day when 
we accidentally met at the State House door. I have never spoke to any of the members 
upon it but when they have opened the Subject, and then as sparingly as possible, .... 

" A day or two ago a member of Congress wrote me a note as a friend requesting my 
opinion of the draught shewn me by Genl. Cornell, and that I would communicate any 
plan I might have in my thoughts. I told him that were the circumstances of the finances 
such as would admit of any system being practicable I would readily give him my thoughts 
upon the business, but that as we were circumstanced I did not think it possible to frame 
a system that would not fetter and embarrass the business in a manner incompatible with 
the end of its institution. That rules might nevertheless be adopted to the greater out- 
lines, but the smaller lines which guide the business in detail must be at liberty to bend to 
circumstances as they arise, and governable by a discretionary power which must be 
lodged somewhere — that the seat of this power should be as near the scene of business on 
every occasion as it could be safely trusted, and certain portions of it should be delegated 
to the agents employed in proportion to the nature and extent of the business committed to 
their management. That these sentiments arose from the present circumstances of public 
affairs, but that whenever these circumstances would admit, I should wish to see all the 
departments governed by regular systems harmonizing with each other. The Gentleman 
also asked what sum would be satisfactory to you ; in answer to which I gave him the 
following paragraph. 

" ' With respect to the sum that would be satisfactory to Genl. Greene as Q M G, I 
cannot pretend to ascertain it. Were he looking to this office as one he would wish to 
continue in, I have reason to believe he would not accept of less than £3000 currency 
Per annum and perhaps he might demand £3000 sterling; but as I am confident he now 
continues in from other motives than a view of gain, and wishes to leave it whenever 
he can consistently with the public good and his own honor, I believe he will neither 
demand nor accept of more than an indemnification for his expences. I ground this 
opinion as well on what I have heard him say on the subject, as on my own feelings, 
being actuated by the same motives, as to a continuance in office, as I suppose him to be. 
Whether he means to admit the pay he receives as Major General, as a deduction or not, 
I cannot say, but I should suppose that ought not to be the case.' 

" The same Gentleman intimated to me some days before that he imagined 166 dollars 
p mo would be the sum affixed." Copied from the original, then in the possession of 
Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. See Greene, Life of Greene, H. 297-299. 

8 Schuyler's copy has, inadvertently, " Inst.", but the letter-book copy corrects 
this to " ultimo ". Greene's letter of June 19 was read in Congress June 29, and action 
taken upon it July 24. See no. 345, post. 



268 Continental Congress 

erals department and that you have requested the Sense of Congress on 
that Subject. As you have not obtained their determination, as the Sys- 
tem for Conducting your department reported by this Committee has not 
to our knowledge been decided upon, as the Commander In chief, Im- 
pelled by necessity, has directed you to arrange It In some Effectual Man- 
ner to give dispatch and Efficiency to your measures equal to the present 
Exigency, and as you decline making the necessary appointments until 
this Committee afiford you their Opinion on the degree of responsibility 
by which you ought to be held as Quarter Master General In the Expendi- 
ture of public Money, they conceive It Incumbent on them In order to 
prevent the Evils which may arise to the public from a dissolution of the 
department before the Sense of Congress can be obtained ; to give you 
their Opinion on the Subject — we have maturely considered the reasons 
which you assign in your letter to Congress In Support of your possition 
[sici, and we assure you they appear so Cogent to us that we do not hesi- 
tate to declare our Sentiments generally Coincident with those you have 
stated In the third paragraph of the Letter to which we have alluded. 

With respect to the resolution of the Treasury board of the 23d March 
last, requiring Estimates approved by the board of war to accompany 
every application for Money to prosecute the business of the department, 
we must suppose to have originated from a want of the necessary Infor- 
mation or It would have occurred that a strict adherence to the order in 
your department, under our Circumstances, must of necessity in some 
cases Invol[v]e the Army In great difficulties, and In others prove abso- 
lutely ruinous. It would be easy to state a variety of Instances which 
from the nature of things must occur In Every Campaign In Support of 
this Opinion, but we decline giving them as It would we conceive be like 
demonstrating a self evident proposition. 

In Justice to you Sir we Embrace this Occasion to declare that after 
having Examined your arrangement of the Quarter Master Gen : Depart- 
ment, we are convinced the Measures you have adopted and the principles 
on which these Measures were founded, were well Calculated to promote 
the Service whilst they fully evinced your attention to the public Interest, 
how far your arrangements have been complied with by your Subordinate 
Officers, whether these have appointed more assistants than what were 
absolutely necessary properly to Conduct the business, whether they have 
adopted the most prudent Measures in the purchases, and Expended the 
public property with a proper degree of Oeconomy, are Questions we are 
not in a Situation to determine, nor does It appear necessary we should on 
this Occasion.* 

319. The Board of War to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

^■^ War Office July 17, 1780. 

There being no Resolve of Congress to Justify the issuing of conti- 
nental provisions to soldiers Waives when absent from their Husbands, 

*The letter is signed by Schuvler and Peabody. See nos. 322, 349, 351, post. 
[319]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VJI. 179; Arch, of Md., XLV. 15. 



July, 1780 269 

The board have ordered the issuing Commissaries to discontinue the 
practice. 

Compassion to those poor people who are in this situation, belonging 
to your State, induces the board to mention this circumstance to your Ex- 
cellency, in order, that if it should be Judged expedient, some State pro- 
vision may be made for them, as has been the custom in some other States. 

The board conceive that if the situation of any particular state, should 
occasion it to send men who have Families, into the Field in part of it's 
quota of Troops, the charge of supporting the Families, should be at the 
expence of the State — at least, in the First instance it should be the busi- 
ness of the State to afford them relief as being best acquainted with the 
Characters and circumstances of the people — and if proper to be brought 
into account against the United States, it may be done hereafter.^ 

320. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Camp Preakness July 17th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Circumstanced with every Embarrassment incident to Carrying on a 
War without an Army, Magazines, or Treasury, one fourth part equal to 
the exigency of the Times — the Greatest discontent in the Army now in 
the field for want of pay and Clothing neither of which seem near at hand, 
I have scarce time to address a single friend, or even to advise my own 
family, of my situation. Thus Circumstanced I am necessitated to remain 
in Camp contrary to my wish, and vastly injurious to my private interest, 
with little prospect of rendering essential Service — and less of giving 
Satisfaction to the various orders, degrees, and societies of men, neces- 
sarily composed of Individuals widely differing in their Customs, man- 
ners, interests, views, and attachments, whom the Committee by their 
Missions are necessitated to Transact very important Business with and 
for. 

The French fleet is now arrived and some few recruits are daily join- 
ing our Army. The plan of Operations for this Campaign is agreed upon 
in full Confidence that the States will rigidly Comply with the requisitions 
made on them. Tho' we have not been favoured with a single line from 
your State, not so much as even to acknowledge the Rect. of any one of 
our letters. Yet from the Zeal and Exertions the State have heretofore 
uniformly discovered on less important occasions both the Commander in 
Chief and the Committee have little room left to doubt your unremitting 
efforts in the present instance. 

Most of the other States have given us very explicit assurances that 
nothing shall be wanting on their part to Compleat the Great object in 
view. Massachusetts have singular merit, and you would be surprized at 
the instantaneous exertions of some of the other States. It is in Contem- 

2 This appears to be a reply to an inquiry which has not been located. Cf. Arch, 
of Md., XLIII. 138, XLV. 308. The letter was written and signed by Ben Stoddert, 
Secy. 

[320] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 177b. 



270 Continental Congress 

plation for one of the Committee to visit the Assembly of Eastern States 
upon matters of interesting importance, probably it will be my Tour, and 
it would be a happy Circumstance in my favour, if the expectations of 
the Public, and the Trust reposed in me should not render it indispensable 
immediately to return. 

I most sensibly feel for the Convulsion and distress my fellow Citizens 
in the State must experience by endeavouring to Comply with the requi- 
sitions of Congress and their Committee, but be assured that every atten- 
tion was paid to their ability and Convenience which the nature and de- 
mands of the Service would possibly admit. 

It is unhappy for me and disadvantagious to the State that I am totally 
uninformed of their municipal affairs and Transactions, an intimate 
knowledge of which would often put it in my power to render them essen- 
tial service and at the same time promote the public interest. 

please to make my Compliments agreeable to my friends and acquain- 
tance with you. 

I have the Hon'r to be Sir 

with the most entire Consideration of respect and Esteem 

Your most obedt. and very Hum'le Servt. 

Nathl. Peabody 

Please not expose this hasty scrawl." 

2)21. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Phil A. i8 July, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

A report from the Board of War in consequence of a letter of General 
Gates to Congress, referred to the Board, respecting the promotion of 
Col. Dan. Morgan to the office of Brigadier General, now lies upon the 
table, at my request. The Board have stated his former services, his being 
first colonel of our line, and the deficiency of that state at present in her 
quota of troops. If a promotion of general officers is to take place, and 
to be made through the line of the army, Morgan has many before him ; 
but if the promotions are to be through the line of the State, that officer 
it appears stands first. General Gates has mentioned his intention of giv- 
ing Morgan the command of a body of light infantry, but as the state has 
given the command of the militia lately sent to the southward to Col. 
Stevens, who was Morgan's junior officer in the Continental line, with 
the commission of Brigadier General, he will command Col. Morgan, and 
this Gates thinks, will disgust him, and therefore with great earnestness 
and warmth presses his promotion. I shall thank you for your confiden- 
tial communications upon the matter, as the report, I think, will not be 
pressed or taken up until the Virginia delegates are fully informed, as it 

2 Peabody again wrote to Weare July 25, chiefly concerning personal and state 
matters, but mentioning that incessant application had injured his health C'bid.). Cf. 
no. 346, note 3, post. 

[321]^ Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 19; Letters to Washington (ed. 
Sparks), III. 29. 



July, 1/80 271 

was upon my motion to obtain time for information, it lies upon the table. 
Besides, as he left the army in disgust under your immediate command, 
I did not like the present mode of his obtaining the promotions without 
that I know of any alteration of circumstances, at the pressing instance of 
General Gates." .... 

322. The Committee at Headquarters to the President of 

Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Preakness, Julv 18, 1780. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to transmit your Excellency copy of a letter 
from the Quarter Master General. ^Marked A, with copies number i to 13 
of sundry papers delivered therewith, and of our Answer B. We hope 
the reasons assigned for our interference on this occasion will meet the 
approbation of Congress. - 

The fleet and land force of our Ally are arrived at Rhode Island ; a few 
days refreshment will put the latter in condition to take the field, and the 
former to point its operations where it may be directed. The eyes of 
Europe generally, and those of all America are intently turned to Con- 
gress, and to the operations of their Army in this Campaign. Those of 
the powers of Europe, in order to determine our Character, and to judge 
by the event of this Campaign whether it will be prudent to espouse our 
Cause or to throw their weight in the opposite Scale. Those of America 
in anxious expectation that an attempt will be made to expel the Enemy 
from that strong hold, whence they have given these states so much an- 
noyance. The hopes of the people are raised in proportion to the exertions 
of the states. 

But as we cannot contemplate without horror the Effects of disappoint- 
ment — as we apprehend that it will be experienced from the want of exer- 
tion in some states : It behoves this Committee entrusted to call forth the 
resources of the Country, in order to enable the army to act with vigour 
and efficacy in any co-operation with the force from France, to recapitu- 
late the measures they have pursued to accomplish the object of their 
appointment and thereby afford an oppertunity to their Constituents, and 
if necessary to their compatriots to judge whether they have conducted 
with propriety or not, and to whom the misfortunes which will result 
from an inactive campaign will be Justly imputable. 

- The report of the board of war relative to the promotion of Col. Daniel 
Morgan is in the Journals, July 14. See also an earlier report and consequent order, 
ibid., June 16. Washington's reply to this letter, July 22, is in Writings (ed. Ford), 
VIII. 356. Morgan was made brigadier-general Oct. 13. See no. 317, ante, and nos. 363, 
486, post. 

[322]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 134, f. 120 (draft 
by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 31 (letter-book copy) ; ibid., Washington Papers (copy by Abra- 
ham Brasher). The letter is signed by Schuyler and Peabody. 

2 Greene's letter was that of July 14, the committee's reply that of July 16 
(no. 318, ante). See no. 330, post. 



272 C ontinental Congress 

On the 23d of May we were honored with the Acts of Congress of the 
19th of that Month directing us to require from the states whatever was 
necessary to enable our army to Co-operate with the then expected suc- 
cour from france. On the 25th we addressed a circular letter to the states, 
in which we detailed the difficulties and distresses the army sustained, 
truly delineated its weakness and its wants ; and remarked that every reli- 
ance for assistance and relief was placed in the states, both in point of 
recruits for the Army — the necessary provisions to subsist it, and the 
means of transportation. We earnestly entreated their attention to these 
important objects, and that they would adopt such measures as would 
most effectually accomplish the great views Congress had in Contempla- 
tion ; and we concluded our address with exhibiting the probable conse- 
quences which inattention, neglect or want of adequate exertion would 
produce. On the 31st May the Commander in Chief in a letter to the Com- 
mittee, urged the necessity of knowing with precision the means America 
would have in her power to employ in an operation with the Combined 
force against the object, he had in view, and of which we were advised. 
In consequence of this application we wrote a third Circular letter to the 
states, on the 2d June, requesting specific aids of men, provisions, forage, 
Horses, and Carriages to be attached to the Army, and the means of trans- 
portation fdr the variety of articles Incident to its wants. We stated the 
principles on which the allotments to each were made; we observed that 
the requisitions, tho large were barely competent — that they were the least 
adequate to the intended operations — that it appeared essential a proper 
understanding should prevail on all hands — that the states should be fully 
informed of our wants — That the General and the Committee should be 
clearly and explicitly advised of the ability of the states, both individually 
and Collectively, and to have what might be expected and relied on deter- 
mined with precision. Exigencies which have subsequently arisen, im- 
pelled to the necessity of reiterated applications. Copies of which have been 
regularly transmitted to Congress.^ 

It was reasonable to conclude that every state so fully advised of the 
alarming situation of public affairs, would not have left any measure to 
which it was equal unassayed, to preserve the empire from the impending 
ruin with which it was threatned, to support its honor, and maintain its 
Character amongst the powers of the Earth, and effectually to establish 
the great object to accomplish which they had already expended such a 
deluge of blood. We have learnt with the most sensible satisfaction that 
the people in most of the states are roused from the torper which had so 
generally prevailed. That a due sense of duty to their Country has with 
all ranks of men been productive of a patriotic activity evincing that they 
mean effectually to support the Common Cause — that some of the states, 
from whom aid has been required have explicitly advised us of their 
intentions, whilst others have been partial, and some altogether silent 
on the subject. 

3 See nos. 194, 195, 209, 213, 236-241, 266, 269, 276, 302, 303, 312, 313, ante. 



July, lySo 273 

Massachusetts Bay has engaged compleatly to comply with the requisi- 
tions of Congress and this committee, in every article. Rhode Island has 
done the like, except as to the Militia, and the article of Rum on which 
they have not been explicit. Connecticut has engaged to Comply in the 
whole, altho the Governor expressed a doubt, If the state will be able to 
furnish all the flour and salt. New York has engaged to comply in the 
whole, but the Governor observes that the short forage can not be imme- 
diately supplied ; but that the whole quantity called for, will be delivered 
directly after harvest. New Jersey has engaged to furnish the provisions 
required of them, the horses and waggons to be attached to the Army — 
to empress carriages for transportation in the Counties of Hunterden- 
Burlington-Monmouth-Essex and Sussex — To compleat their three Bat- 
tallions, but do not say to what number — " but they have not vested in 
any persons such powers as to enable them on the requisition of Congress 
or their Committee to draw forth the military resources of the state. [''] 
Delaware has generally engaged to comply with the requisitions of Con- 
gress and of this Committee, and the Governor has given assurances that 
he will exert himself to the utmost, but no horses. Waggons, or forage 
have yet been delivered. Maryland has engaged to compleat her Battal- 
lions to the Establishment of 504 Rank and file — by raising 1469 men to 
serve during the War and to raise another battallion for the same term — 
If by this she can be excused from furnishing her Militia, " unless in cases 
of extreame emergency." The General and the Committee conceiving this 
offer favourable to the United States have acquiesced in the proposition 
but she has given no assurances on any other part of our requisition. 
\^irginia, by subsequent Acts of Congress to those of the 19th Alay being 
directed to dispose of her supplies for the southern Army, except so much 
short forage as could be spared for this, has given assurances that the 
greatest quantity possible will be sent. From New Hampshire we have no 
official accounts; private information advises that it is exerting itself. 
Pensylvania has not favoured us with a single line, in answer to the vari- 
ous applications we have made ; Some horses but a number vastly short of 
what we required have been sent to the Army — a quantity of Beef whether 
exceeding or not the quantity required, we cannot say. A little a very 
little flour, not more than fifty Barrels as the Commissary General in- 
forms. A little Rum, no Bacon, no forage that the Quarter Master Gen- 
eral knows of, no Waggons, some recruits for the Army — but we are 
informed that they do not intend to Compleat their Battallions to the 
establishment recommended by the General and the Committee. We are 
ignorant of the measures if any, which they have taken to draw forth the 
3465 Militia required of them.* 

Thus Sir, have we stated the prospects we have and Congress will per- 
ceive that the General and the Committee are far from being able to de- 
termine with precision what may be expected, consequently the former 
finds himself embarrassed and distressed in the moment when every doubt 
should have been removed, and when every hour is of such importance, 

4 See nos. 336-339, M^t. 



274 Continental Congress 

that if not closely improved, the success of the operation will be greatly- 
endangered. In this Crisis, when the honor and reputation of Congress 
and their constituents are eminently exposed — when a want of Virtue and 
exertion clearly involves the destruction of the Empire; we conceived it 
our indispensible duty, as public men, and part of the directing council 
of the foedral union, charged with an important Mission, plainly to ex- 
pose facts without exaggeration; but without disguise or palliation. If 
we had remained silent we should have been culpable. If we had been 
deterred by the fear of offending. It would have argued an unbecoming 
pusilanimity. These sentiments have influenced us, and under that influ- 
ence we shall continue our observations, and intreat the attention of Con- 
gress to the return which accompanied our letter of the 2d June last, In 
which is stated the number of men and quantum of supplies requested 
from each State. We wish Congress to compare what is required from 
each with the aggregate of the whole; and it will be evinced that the non 
Compliance of such a state as Pensylvania will render it impossible to 
prosecute the operations which the Commander in Chief contemplates. 
It will appear that any considerable deficiency on her part will render it 
difficult to act offensively at all ; and that she is not surcharged in the allot- 
ment made, when her extent of Country, her Numbers, her Commerce, 
and her resources are compared with those of the other states. But if 
Pensylvania will not, or willing, cannot afford, at least a great portion of 
what has been requested of her — and if we cannot without her aid prose- 
cute the object of the Campaign, Is it not time to put a stop to the great 
exertions which several of the states are making? We think it is, least 
they should so far exhaust themselves as to be hereafter render'd incapable 
of the means of defence, unless measures can be adopted to induce every 
state to afford those aids which are necessary to promote the weal of the 
Union, and to establish its Independance on a permanent and lasting Basis. ^ 
The arrival of the french force, and the hopes which were afforded the 
Commander in Chief that by the exertions of Congress and the states, 
he would be put in condition to Co-operate with the succour of our Ally, 
render'd it incumbent on him to take the necessary steps for operation. 
Among other things, he directed that the flour in Sussex County should 
be remov'd with all expedition to Hudsons River. Carriages were re- 
quired of this state to convey it to Warreck, in the state of New York, 
beleiving that they would be obtained ; he ordered that others should be 
procured in that state to convey it to Hudsons River; upwards of an hun- 
dred of the latter went to the place, but no flour had arrived there ; the 
Inhabitants of this State absolutely refusing to go, unless they were imme- 
diately paid, altho urged by every consideration which could influence 
their humanity, or their feelings as Citizens ; hence the flour, small as the 
quantity is, remains in Sussex, the troops at West Point, rapidly increas- 
ing in number, and a few days is to bring on another involuntary fast in 
that quarter." 

5 See nos. 241, 261, 313, ante. 

6 The numerous orders given by Washington at this time with a view to 
co-operating with the French fleet may be gathered from Fitzpatrick, Calendar of the 
Correspondence of George IVaMngton zvith the Officers, vol. II. See no. 316, ante. 



July, 1780 275 

General Knox has likewise been ordered to remove a variety of stores, 
to hudsons River, and to apply to the Quarter Master Genl. for the means 
of transportation, which must be considerable. Inclose you Copy of Gen- 
eral Greenes Letters on the subject, marked C/ To procure carriages by 
military aid, on very sudden emergency's is not only right, but may be 
eligable on the occasion; but to rely on it, in a serious operation which 
will probably continue for months, would be precarious, inadequate, and 
ruinous to the Army, and to the inhabitants. We do not mean that it 
should be infer'd that this state, which has already exerted itself in this 
Line, is any degree equal to the transportation of the Stores, which must 
pass through it in the course of the Campaign. It can afford considerable 
assistance, but it must be aided by others, and it is impossible to mistake 
by zvhich.^ 

The adjutant General and his Deputies, The judge Advocate and his. 
The Regimental adjutants. Quarter Masters, Surgeons and Mates have 
requested us to obtain a determination of Congress whether they are con- 
sidered as Intitled to that justice which has been done to the line of the 
Army by the act of the 9th of April last — and whether at the Conclusion 
of the War they are to partake of the bounty of the states in point of Land 
and other emoluments. Connecticut has setled the depreciation with the 
Surgeons and Mates, in their line, on the original establishment of 1776. 
Representations have been made us on this head, and they claim it on the 
subsequent establishment which guided the settlement with the other 
Officers ; We mention this that it may be considered in the deliberations 
of Congress on the subject of this paragraph, and we intreat a speedy 
determination in order to remove the fears and jealousies which prevail 
in regard to this matter, and we wish, if possible, that the decision should 
be extended to comprehend such Officers in the civil departments of the 
Army as have served on daily or monthly pay, in order to prevent that 
multiplicity of applications with which we are daily perplexed, and to 
Erradicate this source of discontent.^ 

Mr. Schuyler in a letter of 6th Instant (the Committee being absent) 
mentioned the inconveniency which the Officers labourd under, in not 
receiving the subsistance money for the retaind rations. In answer to 
their applications on this distressing subject, assurances were given that 
Congress would be advised of the matter, and that a speedy decision 
would be requested. Indeed Sir, the disagreable spirit which is already 
unhappily too prevalent on this occasion is increasing and unless speedily 
attended to, may be productive of serious consequences.^" 

Yesterday two Officers of Colo. Hazens Regiment waited on us. and 
represented in behalf of themselves and others that they had left their 

■^ See Washington to Knox July 15 (Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 108), Greene, 
Life of Greene, II. 312, and nos. 330, 335, post. 

^ That is, Pennsylvania. 

* The " Petition from the Regimental Surgeons and Mates of the Connecticut 
Line ", dated " Camp Nelsons Point July 7th 1780 ", and endorsed as received July 10, 
1780, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 245. Other memorials to the com- 
mittee are at fif. 243 and 263; copies of the three are in no. 11, pp. 290-293. 
^** See no. 294, ante. 



276 Continental Congress 

native Country, to follow our fortunes, that previous to their leaving 
Canada they made Considerable disbursements in Specie to promote our 
service, Colo. Hazen assures us to the amount of about five hundred 
Pounds Sterling, and that it is included in his accounts, which are passed 
but remain unpaid. These officers are, as they declare, so destitute of 
Cloaths that they are incapable of doing duty, and some of their family's, 
residing in different parts of the Country, are suffering for want of the 
mere necessary's of life. Their case is peculiar, they have no friends from 
whence they can draw Assistance ; humanity pleads so strongly in their 
favour that we can not dispence with most earnestly recommending that 
some money should be advanced them without delay.^^ 

The Commander in Chief has put into our hands a letter from the 
Board of War to him on the subject of military Stores, and desired us to 
take some steps in consequence of it. In this letter the board observes that 
" the time is too short for complying with the Estimate for sixty days ", 
that " they are convinced of the utter impracticability of procuring more 
than half the amount of the Estimate last sent ". That " Had they money 
and were time enough allowed them for procuring the shott and shells, 
they are convinced a sufficient quantity of powder could not be obtained ". 
That " they will do their utmost to procure the articles mentioned in the 
Estimate for thirty days, but thought it unnecessary to begin the provi- 
sion without being informed whether or not the business can be under- 
taken. If the articles agreable to the thirty days Estimate as at first fur- 
nished can be had, and they beg His Excellency's speedy answer on the 
subject ". The letter is of the nth Inst, and was not received until four 
OClock Yesterday. It were to be wished that the board had gone on with 
the matter, as far as was possible for them to do, that so much time as 
must now of necessity be lost might have been saved. We intreat the busi- 
ness may be spiritedly entered on, and upon the largest Estimate, and the 
articles forwarded from time to time as they are prepared; We mention 
the largest Estimate as the board will perceive that in the one which they 
have transmitted, they state as on hand In Pensylvania sundry articles, 
which General Knox had already included in his Return, as part of the 
amount which he stated to be in hand ; hence the deficiency's appear to be 
less than they really are.^" 

The Board presumes General Knox can influence the proprietors of 
Iron Works in this State to enter on the business of Casting shott and 
shells. Mr. Faesh has given proposals to make about two hundred Tons. 
We have requested him to commence the work and have given him assur- 
ances we would recommend that he receive the same allowance which is, 
or may be given by the board of War, in the State of Pensylvania, and 
that we would likewise recommend that he should be furnished with the 
money he requires, which is " Twenty thousand pounds immediately or 
five thousand pounds weekly, on account, or he will give loan Office Cer- 
tificates in lieu to that amount ". We believe he will acceed to this, and 

11 The two officers have not been identified. 

12 The letter of the board of war, July ii, is in the Washington Papers. Wash- 
ington's reply, July i8, is ibid. 



July, 1780 277 

hope If Congress approves, That measures may be pursued to furnish 
the money.^^ 

General Greene has transmitted us Copy of a letter from Mr. Wads- 
worth to him, which we have the honor to inclose marked D. The subject 
is interesting. General Greene informs us that the forage required from 
the Eastern states cannot be converted to the use of the french Troops, as 
there will not be a sufficiency for ours, especially since the supply required 
from Virginia depends on the contingency of that state being able to spare 
any without distressing the Southern Army. It seems necessary that this 
business should claim the earliest consideration of Congress.^* 

Colo. Hazen has presented us a memorial accompanied with other papers 
Marked E. As it is far from being within the line of our duty to decide 
upon the contents; we transmit them to your Excellency for the inspec- 
tion of Congress. A Monsieur Garranger has also put into our hands a 
memorial F which for similar reasons we also transmit.^* 

In our remarks on the requisition made of Pensylvania and in stating 
what we are advised she has furnished, we took no notice of that gener- 
ous aid of the associated Company of her Citizens, because we conceived 
an evident distinction between the exertions of a state and some indi- 
viduals of it — nor will that assistance capital as it is militate against our 
conclusion " that the military operations in contemplation cannot be prose- 
cuted " without great exertions in the Government of that state.^® 

By Resolutions of Congress the Commander in Chief is restricted in 
his operations to the limits of the United States. It would be easy to as- 
sign a variety of conclusive reasons, that such restraint may be attended 
with many disagreable consequences, whilst no[t] a single advantage can 
possibly result from it. But we wave stating them as we conceive the re- 
striction has arisen from mere accident in wording the Resolution, and 
that barely mentioning it, will lead to a reconsideration. If the General 
has not conveyed you his sentiments on the occasion, we are inclined to 
impute it to a delicacy which may not permit him to request an extention 
of power, rather than to any doubt he may entertain on the propriety of 
the measure we allude to as necessary. Should the Sentiments of Congress 

13 John Jacob Faesh was the owner of blast furnaces at Mount Hope, New Jer- 
sey. July 20, in a letter to General Knox, he expressed a fear that his furnace would 
be destroyed and asked for a guard (Washington Papers). Aug. 11 he wrote the com- 
mittee respecting a supply of provisions, money to pay his men, and the necessity of 
exempting the men from military duty. Ibid. 

1* Greene's letter, dated July 19, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 345, 
no. II, p. 242 (copy). The copy of Wadsworth's letter is not with it, and on the face 
of Greene's letter is written, probably by a clerk of the committee, " Sent the Inclosed 
to Congress — ^July 19, 1780". Aug. 2 Congress referred Wadsworth's letter to the 
board of war. 

15 Hazen's memorial, which was referred Aug. 2 to the board of war, has not been 
located. He had however preferred a memorial to Washington (Feb. 12) respecting his 
rank, his losses, etc., and again on Mar. i, 1781, the latter memorial being referred by 
Washington to Congress {Journals, 1781, index, Hazen). The committee was in this 
instance severely criticized by Congress for receiving these petitions. See the Journals. 
Aug. 2, and the committee's final report, ibid., Nov. 16. The case of Garanger was con- 
sidered Sept. 26, 29. 

1® See no. 303, ante. 



278 Continental Congress 

be coincident with ours on this subject, the present posture of affairs will 
indicate that their decision cannot be too early conveyed to this quarter/^ 

323. James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

July 19th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Letter of July 5th to the Delegates of Mass'ts and That of the 
7th to me came duely on. I am sorry that there is any Delay as to the 
Court of Enquiry, and more so that you are not quite certain of a speedy 
Exchange." .... We are as to News from Rh : Isld. as we were from 

1^ See nos. 232, 248, 287, ante. The votes of powers to Washington (except in 
some specific and limited cases) had not expressly limited these powers to the United 
States; but an explanatory resolution of Aug. 23, 1777, did contain the words "within 
the United States ", and it was doubtless that resolution that appeared to stand in the 
way of effective co-operation with the allied forces. That explanatory resolution had 
been adopted in response to an inquiry of Washington, Aug. 22, 1777 (IVritmgs, ed. 
Ford, yi. 45, ed. Sparks, V. 38). Congress did, by a resolve Aug. 2, remove the 
restriction, yet not without opposition. Maryland, North Carolina, and South Carolina 
voted solidly against the resolution. Georgia was divided, William Few voting for it, 
Edward Telfair against it, while Connecticut and Pennsylvania each cast one vote in 
the negative, those of President Huntington and Jared Ingersoll. President Huntington 
transmitted the act to Washington Aug. 3 without other remarks than a bare summary 
of its substance. See also nos. 353, 434, post. 

This letter of the committee and also those of July 21 (the Journals speak of one of 
them as of the 20th) were laid before Congress July 24 and referred to a committee of 
five (Adams, McKean, Sherman. Laurens, and Clark), to whom also was referred, 
July 31, a letter from Washington July 22. A report was brought in Aug. i and action 
taken Aug. 2. One part of Washington's letter (Writings, ed. Ford, VHI. 354, ed. 
Sparks, VH. 120) calls for particular notice: "I beg leave to observe", he says in 
closing, " that from present appearances it seems to me indispensable that Congress 
should enlarge the Powers of their committee. We have every reason to believe it will 
become unavoidable to exert powers, which if they have no sanction, may be very dis- 
agreeable to the people, and productive of discontents and oppositions which will be 
infinitely injurious." Congress not only refused to enlarge the committee's powers, but 
administered a severe rebuke (Aug. 2), and a few days later (Aug. 11) discharged it. 
See nos. 361, 373, 376, 383, 385, 400, post. 

[323] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 274, ante. Lincoln, who was a prisoner on parole, had been endeavor- 
ing to have himself exchanged. The question was referred to Washington June 26, and 
July I Lincoln set out for headquarters (Holten's Diary, July i). Washington wrote 
to Congress July lo of the obstacles at that time both to the inquiry into Lincoln's 
conduct and to his exchange (Writings, ed. Ford, VHL 338, ed. Sparks, VH. 102; see 
the Journals July 17). The exchange was not effected until the following November. 
Some of the correspondence between Washington and Lincoln on the subject is found 
ibid., VH. 122 (July 26), Letters to Washington, III. 59 (Aug. 11), Writings, ed. Ford, 
VHL 429 (Sept. 10), IX. 23 n., and ed. Sparks, VH. 290 (Nov. 8). 

Matthew Clarkson, who had been aide-de-camp to General Lincoln, had been taken 
prisoner at the same time (May 12, 1780), and was likewise on parole, wrote to Lincoln 
from Philadelphia July 17, acknowledging Lincoln's letter of July 6, with its "very 
disagreable intelligence", and commenting upon their respective situations. He then 
relates this incident : 

" Two or Three Days since I fell in Company with a certain Governor Howley now 
a Delegate in Congress there were a number of Members of that Body present and 
sev'ral other Gentlemen upon my entering the Room this exalted Scoundrell took the 
Liberty immediately of introducing the Subject of Charles town in spe[aking] of which 
he gave himself great Liberti[es] I had just then received Jackson's Letter which 
informed me our exchange was inadmissable you may suppose my Mind was not then 
in a situation to bear much I did not suffer the Governor to proceed any considerable 
length before I interrupted him in such a manner that he thought proper to drop the 



July, 1780 279 

Charleston. " Ships were seen which answered private Signals on the 
loth and are doubtless now in Port i o'Clock morn'g of nth Providence " 
reed, three days ago. We shall know in a Fortnight whether the french 
fleet is arrived or not.^ 

324. The Committee at Headquarters to Azariah Dunham. '^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakness July 19, 1780. 
Sir, 

The Commissary General of Forage having laid before this Committee 
a copy of your letter to him of the 14th Inst., and represented that great 
embarrassments daily occur in transporting supplies, obtained in other 
States, through this State, for the use of the Continental Army, for want 
of pasturing etca. which the Laws of the state do not oblige their contrac- 
tors to furnish. Therefore to remove a difficulty so injurious to the opera- 
tions of the Army, the Committee are induced in behalf of the United 
States, earnestly to intreat that you will take the most effectual measures 
to procure and furnish for the horses and Teams to be employed in such 
transportation, whatever quantity of pasturing, and other forage, the 
quarter Master General, his Assistants, or Deputies, may from time to 
time request." 

325. The Committee at Headquarters to George Washington.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Preakness July 20, 1780. 
Sir, 

Since the Conversation we had with your Excellency, on the subject of 
Cloathing the troops. We have maturely considered the matter, and from 
every point of view, in which we have revolved it, are fully of Opinion, 
That to put the army into an entire uniform, will have a happy influence 
on the soldiery, and tend to inspire the foreign troops, with a more re- 
spectable opinion of ours, than would be entertained, were they to continue 

Subject, to the no small diversion of the Company by whom, and the rest of Philada. 
I have the pleasure of seeing him universally despised this is the only Rascall that 
has dared even to lisp any thing improper, and I'll engage he never will again." Copied 
from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 316, ante. Lovell's quotation is a paraphrase of words of Heath {Writ- 
ings of Washington, ed. Sparks, VII. io8 n.) and of Washington. 

[324]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 262 (letter-book copy), 
no. 39, vol. I., f. 138 (draft by Peabody). 

- The letter is signed by Schuyler and Peabody. Col. Azariah Dunliam, superin- 
tendent of purchases in the state of New Jersey, had written from Morristown, July 14, 
to Col. Qement Biddle, commissary general of forage, stating that a doubt had arisen 
whether the laws of New Jersey authorized the contractors to procure pasturage for teams 
employed in the transportation of articles other than those purchased within the state, 
and, as he did not wish to transgress the law by which he held his appointment, he 
deemed it necessary to obtain an order from the commander-in-chief or the committee 
of co-operation (ibid., no. 11, p. 285). Cf. no. 338, post. 

[325]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed by Schuyler and Peabody) ; 
ibid.. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 221. 



280 Continental Congress 

in their present motly dress. These considerations in addition to those 
which arise from reflecting that it will redound to the honor and credit of 
the states, Induce us to advise, (If your Excellency thinks it will afford 
satisfaction to the army) that the Cloathing arrived from f ranee, should 
be distributed amongst such of the men, as are engaged during the War. 
That the uniforms now possessed by these, should be given to the recruits, 
who are to serve to the end of the Campaign. But as this will deprive those 
who are engaged for the war, of the use of the Cloaths, which must in this 
case be considered as their own property. We think. If they insist upon it, 
that appraisment should be made, and assurances given them, that the 
value will be paid — The recruits who may receive the same to account for 
the value in such manner as Congress may direct. 

326. The President of Congress to the Eastern States.^ 

Philada. July 21, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 1 8th Instant, with a Copy of General Washingtons Letter of the loth 
and an Estimate of Tents and other Camp Equipage wanted for the Army. 
By this Act the four eastern States are requested to take such Measures 
as they may judge will be most speedy and effectual for procuring within 
their respective States, the Portions mentioned in the Estimate, or as great 
a Part thereof as may be had, especially of the most essential Kinds." 

The Assurances given to the Subscribers to a Bank in Pennsylvania by 
the Resolution of Congress of the 22d of June it is presumed you have 
received ; the same having been forwarded by the Secretary in the printed 
Journal to the several States. 

The Bank in Pennsylvania have subscribed a Fund of three hundred 
thousand Pounds in Specie, and undertaken therewith to supply Provision 
to feed an Army of forty thousand Men for two Months ; and Congress 
by the Resolution above mentioned have engaged to indemnify and reim- 
burse them. It is hoped that Gentlemen in the eastern States will not be 
behind them in their Exertions on this Occasion. 

N. B. The like to New Hampshire, Mass. Bay and Rhode Island. 

327. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene.'- 

[July 21, 1780.] 

Mr. Elsworth, who is gone home to Connecticut, was your fast friend 

and his country's friend. Mr. Sherman, he is full in the faith that no more 

expense ought to be created, than the people will annually pay by taxes. 

Yet I believe you may set the State of Connecticut down as your friend, 

[326] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 54 (letter-book copy is ad- 
dressed to "His Excellency Governor Trumbull"). 
2 See nos. 303, 310, 316, ante. 
[327] 1 Greene, Life of Greene, IL 299 (extract). 



July, 1780 281 

if that can be determined by the majority of their delegates. Mr. IngersoU 
hath prejudiced me much in his favor ; he appears at all times to be gov- 
erned by principles of the strictest honor and justice. Mr. Matlack is a 
strange mortal for a man of sense. I never know one day where to find 
him the next. He hath a great notion of being a courtier ; perhaps in some 
countries he would appear a coarse courtier. As for Livingston, Scott, and 
Duane, they were for curtailing every salary fixed in the Quartermaster's 
system ; they have something in view ; what I am not certain ; they make 
me think of the snake in the grass. It is often thrown out in Congress as 
a burlesque, that who can ask such and such things of you when you had 
the modesty to write Congress you would serve them for three thousand 
a year sterling. Perhaps more of this in my next.^ 

Congress are very sanguine in their expectations on the intended offen- 
sive operations. It is not popular even to suppose a miscarriage, in case 
any unforeseen accident should happen, much less to mention any of those 
difficulties that at present to me appear almost insurmountable. 

Congress in general appear exceeding easy in the present situation of 
affairs. There doth not appear the most distant wish for more powers, 
but rather on the contrary, a wish to see their States without control (as 
the term is) free, sovereign, and independent. If anything appears diffi- 
cult in regard to supply, etc., what can we do? Why, we can do nothing; 
the States must exert themselves; if they will not, they must suffer the 
consequences. 

For my own part I have been exceedingly disappointed in my expecta- 
tions in regard to Congress, and am still at a loss as to their motives and 
views, if they have any. There appears to be a languor that attends all our 
conduct, want of decision and spirited measures. The greatest part of 
our time is taken up in disputes about diction, commas, colons, consonants, 
vowels, etc. More in my next. 

328. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 
r-- Preakniss July 2 1 St, 1780. 

The inclosed dispatch from the honorable John Adams to Congress was 
delivered us this morning, as Congress has not decided whether the rea- 
sons assigned by Mr. Schuyler for opening the last dispatch, were satis- 
factory or not, and conceiving it might contain matters of which the com- 
mander in chief ought to be advised, without delay, we have presumed 
to open and peruse the contents, which will not be disclosed to any person 
except the commander in chief, and to him under the seal of secrecy." 

2 See nos. 318, 322, ante, and nos. 350, 354, post. 
[328]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 141 (signed by 
Schuyler and Peabody), f. 140 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 38 (letter-book copy). 

2 See nos. 293, 307, ante. The unauthorized opening of letters does not appear 
to have been included in the bill of indictment presently preferred against the committee, 
but it no doubt had its weight. See nos. 335, 27i, post, and the Journals, July 26, Aug. 
2, II. 

The despatch of Adams here referred to was probably that of Mar. 23, which was 
read in Congress July 24, the same day on which the committee's letter was read. 



282 Continental Congress 

329. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress/ 

Precaniss July 21st, 1780. 
Sir, 

Since writing this Morning Mr. ]\Iathews is arrived, has brought Let- 
ters for the Committee from the Governor of Maryland and President of 
New Hampshire affording us full Information and much Satisfaction." 
As an Express waits we must defer transmitting Particulars to another 
Opportunity. 

[P. S.] Mr. Thompson will be so good as to return a copy of this as 
Mr. Schuyler has not time for this one. 

330. The Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Camp, Preakness, July 21, 1780. 
Sir, 

We are honoured with your letter of yesterday's date covering an Esti- 
mate delivered you by General Knox, stating the weight of ordnance 
stores, for which he requires the means of transportation; with one of 
yours, exhibiting what number of Carriages will be necessary to move 
those stores, and others you mention from Trenton to Dobbs Ferry." 

You wish to be inform'd " Whether the Committee can give you full 
assurances, that such aid will be given in the business of transportation 
both with respect to teams and forage, and all other matters of contin- 
gency dependant on the same, as will authorize you to engage to the Gen- 
eral to perform the transportation required ".^ Convinced of the imprac- 
ticability of prosecuting extensive military operations, without ample 

Three letters (Mar. 8, 18, and 19) were read July 22, but the committee's letter could 
scarcely have reached Congress by that time. It should here be noted that the letter of 
Mar. 8 which was read in Congress July 22 is the second letter of that date as printed 
in Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 539. It is marked by Adams " Letter XLIX.", and is endorsed 
as "read July 22d" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 84, vol. I., f. 307). The first of the printed 
letters is marked "Letter L.", and is endorsed as read Sept. 11. Ibid., f. 311. 

[329]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 142 (A. L. S. of 
Schuyler), f. 143 (copy), no. 11, p. 38 (letter-book copy). 

2 The Maryland letter was that of July 10 {Arch, of Md., XLIII. 216). Cf. the 
letter to Washington, same date (ibid., p. 217). The New Hampshire letters were of 
July I, 2, and 6. The first of these is in A'^. H. State Papers, X. 515, the last, ibid., p. 517, 
though without indication in either instance to whom the letters were addressed. 

[330]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 157 (copy sent to 
Congress). 

- Greene's letter to the committee July 20 is in the Washington Papers (origi- 
nal and copy). He enclosed the same estimates in his letter to Washington July 21. The 
estimate of the weight of cannon, etc., prepared by Knox, is in the Washington Papers 
under July 21 (f. 18997). Of the estimate of teams, etc., there are two copies in the 
Washington Papers, the one transmitted by Greene to the committee and bearing his 
signature being under July 20 (f. 18987), that transmitted to Washington, under July 
21 (f. 18999). See no. 336, post. 

^ Greene further insisted : " Unless the Committee can provide ways and means 
of furnishing the carriages and the forage necessary for them, the operations which 



July, lySo 283 

means of transportation, the Committee have long since recommended it 
to the attention of the states indivickially — New Jersey, Pensylvania, and 
Delaware seem to be the only States from which Carriages can be drawn 
for what stores may be moved from Trenton to Dobbs Ferry, and any 
intermediate or adjacent places. South of the Highlands and West of 
Hudsons River. The Government of this State has empowered the mag- 
istrates to impress teams, when rec[uired ; but on a recent occasion they 
could not be procured in that manner. The Government of Pensylvania 
has not advised us of their intentions on this, or any other subject. The 
Governor of Delaware has promised that the state will exert itself to the 
utmost, generally to comply with the requisitions of this Committee; 
hence we are not sufficiently informed to decide, what reliance can be 
made on their aid. or how far the Governments of those states will inter- 
pose to procure it. The Committee in a late letter to Congress have been 
very Explicit on the subject of the various supplies requisite to put the 
Army into a state of activity and impressed as that body undoubtedly is. 
with the importance of having matters of such high moment to the weal 
of their Constituents ascertained with every possible degree of precision, 
they will probably come to an ecclaircisment with the states; and it seems 
impossible that the latter should not be impelled to adequate exertion when 
they shall be convinced that the General cannot avail himself of any advan- 
tage which may offer or commence an operation, whatever his force may 
be, unless supplied with the requisite stores and that an inactive Campaign 
will involve the states in a series of distress, which no friend to his Coun- 
try can contemplate without the deepest anxiety; nor will the Committee 
fail to reiterate their observations on the subject. But should those states 
in whom a reliance must be now immediately placed for this aid, and which 
you assure us they are competent to, be capable of a measure so injurious 
as to withhold it, we shall certainly not hesitate to advise and request that 
the IMilitary be employed to assist you in obtaining the necessary Car- 
riages, persuaded that men who have entered into that profession to pre- 
serve their dearest rights as Citizens will execute the disagreable duty 
with every possible degree of tenderness, and relying that we shall stand 
Justified with the virtuous part of the Community, who whilst they with 
us lament the necessity of the measure, will decide that of the two evils. 
we had avoided the greater. 

The Committee Sir, are sensible that providing the Teams and forage 
under the present plan of procuring supplies and aid. thro the medium of 
state agents not immediately dependant on your Department as Quarter 
Master General, does not render you accountable for their malconduct. 
We consider it, however, your duty to make the requisitions to the states 
and to prosecute every means in your power to obtain both. The Com- 
mittee see with anxious concern the embarrassments which incessantly 
arise from such extensive dependence on the states for every supply — 
That it is productive of partial burthens on particular states from their 

the General has in contemplation cannot be prosecuted without we have recourse to Mili- 
tary force for obtaining them ; and even this would be precarious and uncertain, as well 
as unequal and distressing to those who lay most within reach of the Army." Wash- 
ington Papers (original) ; Papers Cont. Cong., no. 30, vol. I., f. 155 (copy). 



284 Continental Congress 

local situation, That it will ever create a reluctance in the individuals of 
such states to the public service, That whilst a want of money compels 
Government to committ their affairs to persons not accountable to those 
whose reputation in a great measure depends on the Conduct of such per- 
sons; It is impossible business should be prosecuted with either propriety 
or oeconomy, and persuaded that nothing can remedy this evil, and con- 
fine business to its proper Channel, unless the confidence of the Inhabi- 
tants is regained by adequate assurances that the debts due, or such as may 
become due will be discharged without loss to the Creditors, and unless 
the Quarter Master Generals Department be supplied with money to pay 
for the necessary contingency's thereof, under this persuasion, the Com- 
mittee will earnestly intreat Congress to turn their attention to both. 

As many of the stores included in Genl. Knox's Estimate are at West 
Point and placed East of Hudsons River, and others much nearer to 
Dobbs Ferry than Trenton, and as the whole quantity required will not be 
procured in time on this side of Hudsons River, We conceive the calcula- 
tion of carriages on his Estimate very considerably too high. We also 
believe a dimunition [sic^ might take place in the others as the whole 
quantity of forage will not be carried on to Hudsons River — that of Vir- 
ginia being directed another way, and that a substitute for it, will in all 
probability be drawn from New York and the more Eastern States. We 
wish you to reconsider the Estimate that the application may be the least 
that will effectually suffice, as it will diminish the difficulty in obtaining 
them, and evince that every attention is paid to the ease and Convenience 
of the States.* 

331. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^^y Philadelphia, 22 July, 1780. 

I am honored with your Excellency's three letters of the loth instant 
and the papers to which they refer.^ 

The Act of Congress appointing Commissioners to settle accounts in 
the several States, etc., referred to in my letter of the i8th of June, ex- 
tends to all public accounts in any department (if my memory serves), 
and will be adequate to the purposes you mention of settling accounts in 
the Quarter Master's Department, as well as the Commissary's, and I 
hope a Commissioner will soon be ordered to Connecticut for that 
purpose.^ .... 

I have received official intelligence that all the States north of Virginia, 
except Delaware and Rhode Island, have adopted the resolutions of the 
i8th of March, and by my last from Gov'r Greene, he expected that State 
would adopt them in a few days, and the same is expected from Virginia.* 

* This letter is signed by Schuyler and Peabody and is endorsed by Secretary 
Thomson, "No. i Enclosed in Com'ee letter July 2^". Greene replied July 21. Ibid., 
no. 39, vol. I., f. 159 (copy) ; Washington Papers (original). See nos. 318, 322, ante, 
336, 343, 349-351. post. 

[331]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 81. 

2 Trumbull's letters are ibid., pp. 57-64. They u'ere read in Congress July 18. 

3 See no. 260, ante, and no. 333, post. 

* See no. 314, ante, 333, 397. post. 



Jiily, i/So 285 

I hope Connecticut will with the greatest expedition in their power call 
in the quota of Continental bills required of them; the sooner they are 
got out of circulation and sunk the better. 

Had all the States adopted the resolution of the i8th of March, and 
acted thereon with the wisdom and decision Connecticut has done, we 
should have been extricated out of our embarrassments in a great degree 
and almost insensibly. 

We have no later intelligence of consequence from the southern depart- 
ment than what you will receive in the paper inclosed. 

332. Samuel Huntington to Rev. James Cogswell.^ 
Hon'rd Sir, Philadelphia July 22d 1780. 

I have been favour'd with your kind letter from Stanford, but the mul- 
tiplicity of business hath prevented me the pleasure of returning an answer 
until now. 

Indeed the weight and burden of business is Continually increasing and 
like to increase while the war continues. 

Dispatches not only from all parts of the United States daily arrive 
but frequently from various powers and parts of Europe. We have lately 
received Intelligence that the United Netherlands with Denmark Sweeden 
and the Empress of Russia at their head, have determin'd to maintain a 
Neutrality and protect their Trade, this is an important Stroke and all 
that America would wish for on the Subject, yet our enemies in New 
York feign to publish it as favourable for Great Brittain. to prevent 111 
Impressions among them or for some other purpose not Honorable with 
regard to truth. 

There Seems a Spirit rising in this part of the Country to exert them- 
selves in the common cause greater than I have Seen for Some years. I 
hope very good Effects will flow from it. the Arrival of the French 
Armament seems to add yet more to the Animation. 

The news papers here with enclos'd will give you as late Intelligence as 
we have receiv'd from the Southward 

I have also the Satisfaction to Inform you great Harmony and Unanim- 
ity continues in Congress, Notwithstanding the many Embarassments 
and difficulties they have to go through ; and hope that a kind Providence 
hitherto so Manifest in our favour, with firmness patience and perserver- 
ance in the use of means in our power will Conduct these United .States 
safely through the Glorious Contest. 

333. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^jy Philadelphia, July 22, i78[o]. 

Your Excellency's several letters to the President of Congress of the 
loth instant were received and publickly read. No measures have yet been 

[332]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Sprague Coll., I. 412. 

[333P Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, HI. 76; Boutell, Life of Sherman, 
p. Ill (extract). 



286 Continental Congress 

taken by the Board of Treasury for sending Commissioners to settle ac- 
counts in the several States, which they are fully authorized to do by a 
late resolution of Congress. As I am at present a member of that Board 
I shall do every thing in my power to forward that business which has 
been too long delayed." Your Excellency's letter of the 8th of June last 
was referred to a Committee, who reported thereon the 6th of July, " That 
all the creditors of these United States who have not been paid their just 
demands shall be intitled to recieve in the present money to the full value 
of the sums due to them respectively, at the time they ought to have been 
paid ". When the report was taken up in Congress there was no objection 
to making just allowance for the depreciation, but that it was necessary 
to point out some mode for the adjustment of the sums due, and therefore 
it was recommitted, and will. I suppose, be again reported on very soon. 
Congress seem disposed to do justice in every case as far as is practicable.^ 

Our affairs have been considerably retarded and embarrassed for want 
of money, and for want of proper arrangements of the staff departments. 
A new arrangement of the Quarter Master's Department has lately been 
established ^ which provides for the receiving, safe keeping and transpor- 
tation of the provisions and other supplies to be purchased by the several 
States, pursuant to the resolution of the 25th of February last, and for 
procuring other supplies. All the officers employed will be on salary and 
not commissions ; issuing posts in the country are to be discontinued. I 
believe it will be a means of saving considerable expence if duly executed, 
tho' not so much as could be wished. New arrangements are also ordered 
for the Commissary's and Medical departments, to be made by the Com- 
mittee at Head Quarters and reported to Congress 

I understand that of late the army have been well supplied with pro- 
visions. I am sorry that the State of Connecticut have had occasion to 
emit so large a sum in bills of credit previous to their being furnished 
with the bills prepared by order of Congress, but am glad to hear that they 
have laid so large a tax to be paid in the new bills. I esteem that to be 
a very wise measure to introduce the bills into circulation with full credit, 
and ought to be imitated by all the other States. I am fully perswaded 
that no way can be devised, in our circumstances, to support the value of 
a paper currency but by taxing to the full amount of our expenditures, 
after having emitted a sufficient sum for a medium of trade, which is 
limited by the resolution of Congress to ten millions of dollars for the 
thirteen States; and if the particular States extend their emissions beyond 
their quotas of that sum, it will in my opinion give a fatal blow to the 

- See no. 331, atife. Concerning the settlement of accounts see the Journals, 
June 12, 16, July 31, Aug. 10, Oct. 2. 

2 Two letters of Governor Trumbull, dated June 8, were read in Congress 
June 15. One of them was referred to the board of treasury, which made report June 19. 
The other (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 50), of which Sherman here 
speaks, was referred to a committee (McKean, Ellsworth, and Henry), who brought in 
a report July 6. This report (which is not found in the Journals) was considered July 13 
and referred to a new committee, of which Sherman was chairman. This committee, to 
whom had also been referred (Aug. 22) a letter of Thomas Burke, July 21, brought in 
a report Aug. 24, and Congress took action upon it Aug. 26. Cf. nos. 380, 402, post. 

* The system is in the Journals, July 15. 



July, I/80 287 

credit of the whole paper currency, and involve us in worse evils than we 
have heretofore experienced. Therefore I think that no supposed neces- 
sity, or other consideration whatsoever, should induce any State in the 
least degree to exceed the limit fixed by the United States by the resolu- 
tion of the 1 8th of March last. I am sensible that it was necessary to make 
some State emissions before those bills were prepared, but then I think 
they should be considered as part of their quotas of the ten million dollars. 
The resources of this country are great and may be drawn out in so 
equable a manner by the wisdom of the Legislatures of the several States 
as fully to answer the exigencies of our affairs, without being very bur- 
thensome to the people. It may be necessary to run in debt for some for- 
eign articles, but I think not for any that are to be procured in this coun- 
try.^ I shall return home by the middle of August, so as to attend the cir- 
cuit, if relieved by the arrival of another delegate. Mr. Root writes me 
that he dont expect to come 'till the beginning of October. I have wrote 
to General Wolcot, but have not yet received an answer. 

The bank set up here for the supply of the army I hope will be attended 
with some good effect Of the new bills have been sent to Connec- 
ticut about half their quota, to New Hampshire their whole quota, to 
Massachusetts, including what is now sent by Brown, 540,000 dollars. 
The quota for N. York is done, but not sent forward, the quota for New 
Jersey will be printed next. Eight States have adopted the measure [i. e., 
of March 18], and we hear that Virginia has, which will make nine. 
Delaware has not yet, and we have no account from N. Carolina. South 
Carolina is not in a condition to do it at present.® I hope General Gates 
will be able to collect such a force as to re-establish civil government there. 

334. The Medical Committee to Jonathan Potts. ^ 

^j.. Philada. July 22d, 1780. 

Your letter of this day I have laid before the medical committee, and 
have it in charge from them to inclose you several resolutions passed by 
them and the resolution of Congress upon which they are founded. 

In behalf of the committee 

S. Holten Chairman 

[The following directions from the medical committee to Dr. Potts 
accompanied this letter :] The Medical committee direct that D.- Potts 
purveyor of the Hospitals in the middle district dispose of the money 
granted by Congress the 21st instant to his department as follows (viz.) 

^ A joint letter from Sherman and Benjamin Huntington to Trumbull the same 
day (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 79; Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 112, 
extract) likewise discusses the subject of state emissions. The letter concludes: "Con- 
gress have established a new regulation of the Quarter Master's Department ; it is now 
in the press and will be transmitted to your Excellency as early as possible. It is 
expected this new arrangement of that department will save great expence to the public." 

^ See nos. 314, 331, ante, and nos. 340, 397, post, 
[334]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Potts Papers, H. 514 (addressed, "D[r]. Potts, Present"). 

2 A very common abbreviation of Doctor. The grant referred to by the com- 
mittee is recorded in the Journals, July 21. 

23 



288 Continental Congress 

Sixty thousand dollars for purchasing and laying in hospitals stores, such 
as, Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Rice or Barley ; but the comittee do not con- 
ceive wine to be absolutely necessary therefore none is to be purchased at 
present ; Twenty five thousand dollars is to be delivered to D. Craigie the 
Apothecary General, in order to enable him to pay of[f] debts due from 
his department and to purchase some small necessary articles : And you 
are further directed to pay the wages due to the officers of your depart- 
ment to the first of april last : and to keep the remainder of the money on 
hand untill the further order of the comittee, and make return of your 
doings as soon as may be. 

Attest. S. HoLTEN Chairman 
Philada. July 22d, 1780. 

335. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia, July 23, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

Your two Letters of the 21st Instant together with the foreign 
Despatches to which they refer are just come to hand by Messenger 
Misner. Enclosed is a Copy of the one agreeable to your request. 

Your several Letters of the 19th and 23d of June and 13th of July have 
been duly received, and the Despatches which accompanied them for the 
different States immediately forwarded, the receipt of some of them I 
believe hath not been before acknowledged. 

Congress have not yet given any Answer on the Subject you have men- 
tioned, respecting the Opening Letters directed to them." 

336. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakniss, July 23d, 1780. 
Sir, 

We have the honor to inclose your Excellency copy of a letter from the 
General officer's to us. No. i, and copy of their memorial to Congress, 

[335]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 119, no. 11, p. 16; 
ibtd.. President's Letter-Book, p. 55. 

- See nos. 293, 307, 328, ante. Huntington was writing on Sunday. The com- 
mittee's letters of July 21, together with that of July 18 (nos. 322, 328. 329, ante), were 
laid before Congress Monday morning, the 24th, and referred to a committee of five. This 
committee brought in a report Aug. i, particularly respecting the letter of July 18, and 
severely criticizing the committee at headquarters. The principal items of the report were 
adopted Aug. 2. Meanwhile Congress had received a letter of July 17 from the Pennsyl- 
vania executive (see the Journals, July 19, 26), protesting against the committee's com- 
plaints directed toward that state (see especially no. 313, ante), and had had under consid- 
eration letters of the committee (July 23, 27, 30. nos. 336, 346, 351, post), together with 
letters of General Greene, respecting the department of the quartermaster-general. Then 
came Mathews' letter of Aug. 6 (no. 361, post), and Congress at once (Aug. 11) recalled 
the committee (see no. 373, post). 

[336] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 148 (signed by 
Schuyler, Mathews, and Peabody), f. 144 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 38. 



July, I /So 281) 

No. 2, which we received on the 20th instant." It is certain that the forti- 
tude and perseverance with which the officers and soldiers of the Army 
have encountered the various hardships and difficulties they have been 
exposed to, and the faithful and eminent services rendered their Country 
in the course of the present contest, fully entitle them to her gratitude, 
her ample justice, and loudly calls for the earliest decision of her supreme 
council, on the subject matter of their memorial. 

The inclosed No. 3, is copy of a letter from the commander in chief, 
to the quarter master General, No. 4 is copy of his letter to us in conse- 
quence of the former. No. 5 and 6 are returns which accompanied it, 
No. 7 is copy of our letter in answer to his, No. 8 of his reply.^ 

On a matter so important as that which is the principle object of these 
papers, we earnestly intreat to have the sense of Congress explicitly stated, 
and speedily conveyed to us. The committee were led to decide for a Mili- 
tary coercion in procuring carriages, if other means of obtaining them 
should prove ineffectual, because they conceived it a self evident proposi- 
tion, that ample, but distant supplies of provisions for such an Army as 
you have called into the field, without adequate means of transportation, 
must render every operation abortive ; increase the distress of the Coun- 
try, and call in question the wisdom of the directing council of the Empire. 

Governor Livingston, with whom we have conversed since our last to 
Congress, has explained the quotation we gave from his letter respecting 
the " Military resources of the state " — he meant only to convey, that no 
new powers had been conferred on any person to call them out, but as- 
sured us that by former acts of the legislature, he is authorized, with his 
council, to draw forth the ]\Iilitia on the requisition of Congress, or 
General Washington. 

The honorable President Weare, in letters of the ist, 2, and 6th, which 
we received on the 21st instant, advises us that he has " reason to expect 
the major part at least " of the troops to recruit their line " will rendez- 
vous in the southern extremes of the state on the 4th of July ". That 
" the Militia are ordered to be at the same places on the 12th, on their way 
to Camp ". That " the quota of beef, alloted to the state, for July, will be 
ready ". That " the first months allotment of rum is ready ". That " per- 
sons are employed to purchase the 150 horses required of them, and thinks 
it probable they will be ready in a few days ". That " the legislature of the 
state have fidly empowered the President with the committee of safety 
to call forth all and every resource of the state when wanted, on the recess 
of the general court, to whom we are to apply for future aid ". In his 
letter of the 6th, he observes " upwards of one hundred recruits for the 
Continental Army had marched forward on the preceeding Tuesday and 
Wednesday from Kingston, and by the best information, they were equally 
forward in the Counties of Hillsborough and Cheshire. 

2 See nos. 355, 357. 375, 387, po-'^f- 

^ With regard to the department of quartermaster-general see nos. 318, 322, 330, 
a^ic. 343, 346, 349-351, post. 



290 Continental Congress 

His Excellency the Governor of Maryland's information is also full, 
and greatly satisfactory, as his letter is short, we deem it unnecessary to 
enclose it, and therefore transmit a copy, No. 9. 

We have this day in concurrence with the commander in chief, annexed 
the regiment commanded by Colo. Henry Jackson to the Massachusetts 
line — that of which Samuel B. Webb Esqr. is colonel we have also an- 
nexed to the Connecticut line. Copies of our resolutions are inclosed. 
No. 10 and 11. 

We wish to be favoured with copies of the Journals of Congress as far 
down as they are printed.* 

;^;^y. The Committee at Headquarters, Minute.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Camp Preakniss July 23d, 1780. 

The Commander in chief having laid before the committee an act of the 
State of Connecticut, which is in the words following, towit." .... 

Resolved, by and with the advice of the commander in chief, that the 
regiment whereof Samuel B. Webb Esqr. is colonel, now commanded by 
Liet. Coll. Ebenezer Huntington, and one of the additional corps, be, and 
is hereby, annexed to the Connecticut line in the Continental Army, and 
shall henceforth be considered and called the Ninth regiment in the Con- 
necticut line of Continental troops, provided that nothing herein con- 
tained shall be considered or taken to be a credit to the State of Connec- 
ticut for more of the non commissioned officers and soldiers than were 
citizens of that state, at the time of their engagement in said Corps. 

P. S. It was sent blank in the 7th line of the resolve to Congress. 
P. S. The number of the [sicY 

* The letter is endorsed: "Letter from com'ee at head Qrs. July 23, 1780 Read 
28. With enclosed (No. i) Letter from the Genl. Officers; (2) Mem'l genl. Officers to 
Congress; (3) Genl. Washington to genl. Greene July 19; (4) genl. Greene to Com'ee 
July 20; (5) Return of teams for transportation from Trenton to Dobb's ferry; (6) do. 
W't of Military stores for seige N. Y. for 60 days; (7) Com'ee to Gen Greene July 21 ; 
(8) Genl. Greene to Com'ee July 21; (9) Gov Lee to Com'ee July 10; (10) Com'ee's 
resol'n for annexing Jackson's reg to Massachusetts line; (11) do. for annexing Webb's 
to Connecticut line." 

Enclosure no. i, dated July 11, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. L, f. 150; no. 2 
is ibid., no. 43, f. 259, copy in no. 39, vol. L, f. 151; no. 3 is in Washinston's IVritings 
(ed Ford), VIIL 349, (ed Sparks), VIL 112; nos. 4, 7, 8 (see no. 330 and note 2, aJite) ; 
nos. 5, 6, as transmitted to Washington by Greene July 21, are in the Washington 
Papers, under July 20 and 21 ; no. 9 is in Arch, of Md.. XLIIL 216; nos. 10, 11 (see no. 
2,2,7, post). 

[337]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. IL, f. loi (copy by 
Abraham Brasher, with autographic signatures), no. 39, vol. L, f. 164 (copy sent to 
Congress), no. 11, p. 288 (letter-book copy). 

2 The Connecticut act, passed in response to a memorial of Ebenezer Huntington, 
colonel-commandant of the battalion of which Samuel B. Webb, then a prisoner of war. 
was colonel, adopted the battalion as one of the state line in the Continental army and 
requested Congress and the commander-in-chief so to consider it. 

^ What is meant is that in the copy of the resolve which was transmitted to Con- 
gress no number was given to the regiment. In the text here used the word " Ninth " 
was inserted by Mathews. A similar postscript is attached to the letter-book copy. 

A minute in practically identical terms, mutatis mutandis (no 39, vol. IL, ff. 102, 162, 
no. II, p. 289), records the committee's action with regard to the regiment of Col. 



July, lySo 291 

338. The Committee at Headquarters to the Governor of 
New Jersey (William Livingston)/ 

In Committee of Congress, 

CAMP Preakness, July 23, 1780. 
Sir, 

In your Excellency's letter of the 23d [28th] ultimo informing us of 
what had been done by the Legislature of your state : Among other acts 
therein enumerated, is one for procuring the teams required; not only 
those to be annexed to the army, but also such others as were necessary 
for the transportation service. We were in hopes those acts would have 
been as vigorously carried into execution, as the exigency of our afifairs 
at present demand, but on a late application made by the Quarter Master 
General, in consequence of this law for procuring a number of teams, on 
a very urgent occasion, his utmost efiforts to this end were defeated. We 
think it our duty to make this communication to your Excellency, as the 
supreme executive authority of this State, that an enquiry may speedily be 
made into the cause of the failure. Your Excellency will at once see the 
pernicious consequences resulting from such neglect, without any com- 
ments on our part, and we flatter ourselves, that an enquiry will be pro- 
ductive of such beneficial consequences, as to prevent the like embarrass- 
ments in future." 

The Garrison at West Point is rapidly increasing, and must soon be in 
want of flour, unless the O. M. Genl. can be immediately furnished with 

Henry Jackson, which was designated the Sixteenth regiment in the Massachusetts line 
of Continental troops. The action was taken in response to an act of the Massachusetts 
legislature, conveyed by President Jeremiah Powell May 4, to the effect that Jackson's 
regiment was deemed to belong to the Alassachusetts line, and that General Washington 
be requested to arrange and number it accordingly. This minute respecting Webb's regi- 
ment was enclosure no. 11 in the committee's letter to the President (no. 336, ante^ ; that 
respecting Jackson's regiment, enclosure no. 10. 

[338]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Co.ng., no. 39, vol. III., f. iii, no. 11, p. 205 
(copies signed by Schuyler, Mathews, and Peabody). 

~ For an intimation of the difficulties experienced in New Jersey, see no. 324, 
ante. July 24 General Greene, in a letter to the committee, set forth the problem in some 
detail. There was great difficulty, he said, in getting pasturage and forage for cattle and 
horses coming to camp and for teams employed on the great lines of communication. 
" The law requires that application shall be made to the magistrate. People coming to 
Camp are not willing to expose themselves to civil prosecutions, and there being no 
magistrate to be found, they let the cattle go from day to day without the least sus- 
tenance To look up a magistrate and go with him through a whole neighborhood 

in search of pasturage, and to take it in the divided state they commonly lay it out • • • • 
renders the transportation little less tedious than the Jew's passage through the wilder- 
ness." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 347, no. 11, p. 243. 

Governor Livingston replied to the committee's letter, July 26, that he deemed the 
law altogether effectual for the purpose intended. " If ", he wrote, " the magistrates 
neglect, upon proper application, to carry it into execution, they are doubtless amenable 
to the judicial, but not to the executive authority, of the state." The latter would never- 
theless, upon proper proof, direct a prosecution. "Compel it cannot. But to commence 
an enquiry into the cause of the failure complained of without the least specification of 
the Justices delinquent, or the persons refusing, appears to me like an attempt of rear- 
ing an edifice without a foundation." (Livingston's letters of June 28 and July 26 are ih'id., 
no. 39, vol. III., ff. 161, 215, copies in no. 11, pp. 81, 96). C/. no. 352, post. 



292 Continental Congress 

the means of transporting the flour from Sussex County to Warwick, in 
the State of New York, where teams will be ready to forward it to West 
Point. 

339. The Committee at Headquarters to the Governor of 
Virginia (Thomas Jefferson)/ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakness July 23, 1780. 
Sir, 

We were honored with your excellency's favour of the 2d Inst, on the 
2ist.^ The Cantonements [sici of the Army in this quarter, added to the 
extreme badness of the Crops lasf season has so totally exhausted the 
country of grain for forage, that the Army is in great distress on this 
account ; the transportation of the necessary stores delayed, and every 
embarrassment increased; we have therefore to intreat, that the moment 
the impediments to the transportation from your state to the head of Elk 
are removed, Your Excellency will please to direct the proper Officers to 
lose no time in expediting to the Army as much grain as can possibly be 
spared, together with the bacon, and any other provisions which you may 
have as a surplus of what is necessary for the southern Army. 

Whether all or any of the five thousand troops, raising by your state, 
will be ordered hence, will probably depend on the state in which our af- 
fairs may be to the southward in the course of next month. The Com- 
mander in Chief will advise you on that Subject.^ 

[339]^ Library of Congress. Papers Cent. Cong., no. 11, p. 206 (signed by Schuyler, 
Mathews, and Peabody). 

2Jeflferson's letter of July 2 is in Writings (ed. Ford), II. 317. Cf. his letters 
of the same date to General Washington and the President of Congress (ibid., pp. 315, 
316). The letters are also in Official Letters. II. 136-137. 

2 Besides the letters to Livingston and Jefferson, July 23, the committee wrote on 
the same day to each of the other governors north of Virginia (except Pennsylvania), 
principally to acknowledge receipt of letters and legislative acts indicating the meas- 
ures taken by the several states in response to the committee's requisitions. In most of 
the letters the committee took occasion to emphasize the importance of having the 
supplies punctually delivered, but expressed satisfaction with the steps taken. In some 
instances (the letters to New Hampshire and Maryland particularly) was added the 
hope that entire confidence had been established and would continue to subsist between 
the executive authority of the state and the committee. In the case of New Hampshire 
a slight complication had developed in consequence of a delay in sending forward the 
order of the commissary-general with regard to forwarding supplies. The letter to 
Governor Clinton contained, in addition, this paragraph : 

" We doubt not. Sir, but that directions will be given to furnish the forage as early as 
possible; we are apprehensive of a deficiency in that necessary article, as a considerable 
part of that which was requested from Virginia will, in all probability, be converted to 
the use of the southern Army." 

In the letter to Governor Rodney the committee remarks : " We do not find by your 
letters that the legislature has made any provision for augmenting your line of the 
Army to the number stated by the Commander in Chief and this Committee. Your 
Excellency will please favour us with information on that head." A similar statement 
is contained in the letter to Governor Greene of Rhode Island. Copies of the letters are in 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., ff. 101-122, and no. ii (committee letter-book >, 
pp. 203-207. A brief letter to Weare, July, 25, is no. 39, vol. III., f. 123, and no. il, p. 208. 
The original to Maryland is in Md. Hist. Soc, vol. LXXXVII., f. 189; the letter to Rhode 
Island is printed in R. I. State Recs., IX. 209. 



July, 1780 293 

340. Thomas McKean to the President of Delaware 
(Caesar Rodney)/ 

Dear Sir, 

.... The public duty I am obliged to perform is too much for me. 
and as our State affords me no rehef in Congress I shall be obliged to 
decline the Delegation. The truth is, should my health and strength hold 
out, my finances will not ; while I continue in the station I will support the 
Rank of a Deputy of the State, and this I find so expensive in these times 
that without some support from the Government I cannot endure it much 
longer. I have not received a farthing since the first of January 1779, 
and I am not a single day out of Congress unless when attending some 
court of justice, so that I cannot attend in the least to my private affairs, 
nor to the wants of my family: however I will endeavor to persevere until 
the General Assembly meet again, especially as the difficulties and dan- 
gers we have had to encounter, owing to our change of system for the 
support of the war by taxes and loans are not yet over. For God's sake 
exert yourself in enforcing the collection and payment of the public taxes, 
or we may yet be ruined; if we had but money we could finish the war 
in all probability the present campaign, notwithstanding the loss of South 
Carolina. 

A fleet of eight sail of the Line, besides several frigates and armed 
transports, with 5,000 troops on board, are safely arrived at Rhode Island 
from France, sent for our assistance by our great and good Ally, whom 
God protect. This fleet is superior to that under Admirals Graves and 
Arbuthnot, notwithstanding what you may have seen or heard to the 
[conjtrary. Be that as it may, believe me we shall be vastly superior to 
the Enemy on this Continent very soon. Keep this to yourself, as you 
love your Country ; verbum sat sapienti.^ The Tories will propagate, and, 
I will suppose, do believe the contrary; I hope they will gain credit for a 
time. Nothwithstanding the res arduae domi, and appearances abroad, 
you see I have some consolation in being a member of Congress ; and if 
I had not now and then these grateful animating cordials, yet I [could] 
not quit the Helm in the midst of a Storm. 

I cannot conclude without informing you, that Delaware at present 
stands high in the Opinion of Congress, and that if they had revised and 
altered the tender law, and adopted the plan of discharging the national 
debt of the i8th of March last (for which omissions they are alone cen- 
sured) they would have stood higher than any State in the Union.'' .... 

Philadelphia, July 24th 1780 



[340]! N Y. Pub. Lib., Bulletin, vol. II. (1898), p. 333; ibid., Misc. MSS., McKean. 

2 Cf. nos. 342, 343, post. These remarks were probably made in view of the 
expectation of the second French squadron (see nos. 363, 364, post). 

3 See no. 314, ante, and nos. 357, 396, 397, post. 



294 Continental Congress 

341. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia July 24th 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency s let- 
ter of the nth Instant, this day. There is official accounts that Admirals 
Graves and Arburthnott, with Twenty one Ships of War, sailed from 
Sandy Hook, making their Course South East by South, until they were 
out of sight, their destination unknown, various are the conjectures, some 
suppose Rhode Island, others that they are gone, in quest of the reinforce- 
ment expected from France. 

Since my arrival at this place, I have spent a considerable part of my 
leisure time, (of which I have plenty) in making myself acquainted with 
the Institution of the several Boards as ordered by Congress, their sev- 
eral modes of doing business, the several chambers of accompts and their 
method, together with the Conduct of all persons imployed in public busi- 
ness under the immediate direction of either of the Boards. That [Lest?j 
I should be thought, either imprudent, or indelicate, I must omit entering 
into particulars, on this subject. But the want of decision is evident, and 
oftentimes in matters of great National concern, at this critical conjunc- 
ture and it is too evident that a general languor hath spread itself over all 
our public transactions. 

Our Finances are in a most deplorable situation, and but little attention 
paid in order to put them upon a more respectable footing. The task be- 
ing difficult and the Complicated obstructions that always stare us in the 
face at first view, Appears to me to be the reason that no more attention 
is paid to so great a National Concern. I wish the time may not be near, 
when the most fatal consequences will overtake us, merely for want of 
money for public purposes. I wish you not to construe this letter to be 
wrote by dictates of fear. I assure it is not, but with that truth and sin- 
cerity that the servant of a free people ought to speak.' 

I have also paid attention to all our foreign intelligence, and upon the 
most favorable construction, I cannot see the least probability of a peace 
taking place, unless some Capital stroke can be struck this Campaign, in 
this Quarter. It is probable that Great Britain will propose a Truce with 
the several states, for a limited time, the propriety of Conceding to this 
measure, I must leave you to Judge It appears the victory the Britains 
obtained in Savannah last fall hath much revived their Spirits in Europe. 
The effect the reduction of Charlestown will have I must submit to your 
better Judgment. 

I should be happy. If a more pleasant scene presented itself to my view 
than prosecuting the present Campaign and making preparations for the 
next in our exhausted situation, but as through that door at present is all 

[341]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 15; R. J. State Recs., IX. 299; 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 297. 

-See nos. 262, 298, ante; also Greene to Cornell, July 22 (Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 296), and the Journals, Aug. 15. 



July, I/80 295 

our hope of political Salvation, I hope the United efforts of america, 
joynd heart and hand in this Common cause (in a more Zealous manner 
then they have been of late), will shew to the world that no difficulties are 
insurmountable when fired by that noble Ardor that burns in the breast of 
every true American 

N B. The fleet mentioned sailed on Thursday last. 

342. John Walker to George Weedon.^ 

Philadelphia, July 25, 1780. 
Dear General: 

.... The tories in Carolina have had a gentle currying : ^ Thank 
God for small mercies. I hope this is but a trifling prelude to some adagio 
that is to come. I speak in musical terms to a musical man. The French 
force at Rhode Island consists of eight ships of the line. Five thousand 
troops, two bomb catches, and three frigates.^ General Washington to be 
honored and obeyed by the French army as a marshall of France: the 
American troops always to have the right and our officers holding com- 
missions of equal rank and date with them to take command. These are 
marks of great attention. Our new levies are very tardy in their opera- 
tions. Why are they not sent forward? Something important must be 
done this campaign or shame and disgrace will be our portion.* .... 

343. John Armstrong to John Davis.^ 

Philada. 25th July 1780. 
Sir, 

I have reed, your favour, and think it not improper you shou'd be in 
town at the time you mention — but inform you that Congress have yet 
received no answer from General Green [e] whether he accepts the office 
under the new regulation or not — we suppose he will, and if so he must 
immediately nominate deputys for the approbation of the Supreme Coun- 
cil in every State.^ Your friend Mitchel ^ I presume is soliciting, having 
told me he wou'd serve without any regard to pay. This day Mr. Charles 
Pettit was chosen D : Or. G. of these there is to be but one. 

The French Fleet and transports arived at R. Island on the 12th Inst, 
consisting of seven ships of the line, a Bumketcher and three Frigates 
with five thousand infantry. Near the same day arived Adml. Graves at 

[342]! Seventy-Six Society, Publications: Maryland Papers, p. 113 (addressed to 
Weedon at Fredericksburg). 

2 Ran^sour's Mills, June 20. 

3 See no. 343, post. 

* In an omitted paragraph Walker mentions the sailing of Admiral Graves and 
the conjecture with regard to his destination, etc., and adds : " AW this by spies etc. 
from New York. Observe I tell it to you on no other authority. By some 'tis con- 
jectured that Greaves is gone to take a peep at Admiral Tourney [Ternay], if so I 
hope he may be made to pay for peeping." Cf. no. 340, ante, and nos. 343, 379, 3^7, 
post. 

[343]^ Library of Congress, Papers of John Davis. 

2 See nos. 297, 318, 322, 327, 330, 336, ante, and nos. 345, 346, 349-351, Post. 

3 Col. John Mitchell, deputy quartermaster-general. 



-96 Continental Congress 

N : York with six ships of the line, which together with the former naval 
force, gives him at present superiority. On last thursday he sailed with 
21 ships of force from the Hooke, but whether to attack our allies, or to 
the West Indies we cannot tell. We are not without reason to expect a 
farther reinforcement and soon, but this you must take as private opinion.* 

[P. S.] Coll: Blain is at Camp. 

344. The Massachusetts Delegates to Thomas Cushing and 
Timothy Danielson.^ 

Philada. July 25th 1780. 
Gentlemen: 

We have been disagreeably betrayed into a Neglect till now of answer- 
ing your Letter of May i6th. This is doubly mortifying to us, because 
the Reasons which we must give for our Delay will tend to condemn 
others. We expected that a Business so reasonable as the one relative to 
drawing monies out of the Hands of the Deputy Paymaster general in the 
Eastern Department by Warrants signed by some others than a General 
Officer would not have required any Debate ; and we thought day after day 
that we should be able to inclose to you the Determination of Congress 
on that Head. A proposition delivered in by us was once and again with- 
drawn for the Sake of conciliatory amendments and on the 23d of June 
was referred to the Treasury who reported not till yesterday what is 
herein forwarded." .... 

We are Gentlemen Your verv humble Servants 



James Lovell 

S. HOLTEN 



Hon'ble Messrs. Cushing and Danielson 
Committee etc. 



345, The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia, July 26, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

Enclosed is an act of Congress of the 24th Inst, containing an answer 
to Major General Greenes Letter of the 19th of June, which you will 
please communicate to him.- 

Enclosed you will also receive an extract of a letter from William 
Denning, containing information of the neglect or misconduct of sundry 
persons respecting public Stores. The Original is referred to the Board 

4 Cf. nos. 340, 342, ante, and nos. 379, 387, post. 
[344]! Mass. Arch., CCII. 376. 

2 See the Journals, June 23, July 24. 
1345]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 58; ibid.. Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. II, p. 16 (copy). 

- The committee transmitted the resolution to Greene Aug. i ( Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. IT., f. 92, draft, no. 11, p. 253, copy). See nos. 330, 336, ante, 346, 
349-351, post. 



July, 1780 297 

of War, but it is thought proper this information should be communicated 
to the Committee at Head Quarters.'* 

P. S. Your Letters of the i8th, 20th and 21st Inst, have been received 
and laid before Congress.* 

346. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Preakniss July 27th, 1780. 

Sir, 

We have this moment received a letter from the quarter master Gen- 
eral of this days date, enclosing copy of one of his to Congress, in which 
he resigned his office.' We think it our duty to observe that whatever 
measures Congress may deem expedient to pursue on this interesting 
occasion, should be speedily determined on, to prevent an increase of the 
various embarrassments with which the commander in Chief is already 
too much perplexed ; for it is evident that an x\rmy cannot be put in con- 
dition to operate, or even hardly exist without a quarter master General, 
and one too, that is capable of combining and directing the various duties 
of the subordinate officers in that department, and we cannot but express 
our anxiety on the difficulty of finding a person competent to this impor- 
tant office, if the present one is permitted to leave it in this advanced stage 
of the campaign. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect and 
esteem 

Your Excellencys most obedient servants. 

Ph : Schuyler 
Jno. Mathews 
Nx\THL. Peabody ' 

3 The extract of Denning's letter, written from Bethlehem, July 10, to John 
Fell, was brought to the attention of Congress by Fell July 19. The extract trans- 
mitted to the committee is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 121 ; a copy in no. 11. 
p. 16. See, further, the Journals. Julv 21, Aug. 21 (pp. 752, 754), 22. 

* See no. 335, note 2, ante. The letter here mentioned, and likewise at several 
points in the Journals, as of July 20, was dated July 21. There are two letters of that date. 
[346] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., ff. 166, 168 (draft 
by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 40 (letter-book copy) ; ibid., Washington Papers (copy). 

2 Greene's letter to Congress (July 26) was read in Congress the 29th, the com- 
mittee's letter not until the 31st (it is endorsed as read July 30, but that was Sunday, 
and the Journals record no session that day), when it was referred to the committee 
on Greene's letter. The committee brought in a report the same day, and when it was 
taken up for consideration (Aug. i) it was recommitted and two members added to 
the committee. A new report was brought in Aug. 3, and that in turn was j-ecommitted. 
A third report was offered Aug. 4, which was debated that day and the next, when 
Timothy Pickering was chosen quartermaster-general and the further consideration 
of the report postponed. See nos. 330, 336, 343, 345. ante, 349-351, jyost. 

3 This is the last of the committee's letters signed by Peabody. Because of illness 
he returned to Morristown (presumably the following day), whence he wrote to the 
committee July 29 that he was none the worse for the ride, and added : " I have for- 
warded such of the articles wrote for as I have been able to obtain — have wrote Colo. 
Brasher particularly — have sent more materials for sadle Cloathes than was wrote for 
supposing Mr. Mathews might take one" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XVIII., 
f. 311). See nos. 361, 362, 379, post. 



208 Continental Congress 

347. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States.^ 

(Circular) Secretary's Office of Congress 

July 28th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose you an act of Congress passed yesterday 
by which you will perceive that commissions etc. for private armed ves- 
sels are to issue from this office. In consequence thereof I embrace the 
earliest opportunity of forwarding to you for the use of your State fif- 
teen ^ blank commissions bonds and instructions as agreed to the 2d day 
of May last, and have it in charge to inform you that it is the intention 
of Congress that all commissions and instructions in force on the 2d day 
of May last be cancelled as soon as possible and that commissions, bonds 
and instructions of the new form be substituted in the place thereof.^ 

You will please to order the bonds when executed to be returned into 
this office. When more commissions etc. are wanted for your State they 
shall on the first notice be forwarded by Sir 

your obedient humble servt. 

Cha Thomson 

348. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office July 28th: 1780. 
Sir, 

In Consequence of your Excellency's Letter on the Subject of the 
Jersey Arrangements the Board ^ (fully sensible from Experience of the 
Justice of your Observations on the Impropriety of the individual States 
interfering in such Cases) reported the Matter to Congress in Hopes of 
an Alteration in the System being produced. But we are this Day informed 
that Congress have been pleased to negative our Report. Matters must 
therefore remain as they are until Congress shall alter their Sentiments 
on this Subject and restore Propriety to the Mode of arranging the Army. 
We cannot under present Circumstances issue the Commissions to the 
Jersey Officers from Considerations which must strike your Excellency 

[347]! Md. Hist. Soc. Red Book, VII. 95; Mass. Arch., CCII. 403; Library of 
Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 18, p. 3 (letter-book copy) ; Arch, of Md., XLV. 35. 

2 This is the number in the letter to Maryland, the text of which is here used. 
In the letter-book copy the space is blank. 

On the same day the board of war wrote a circular letter in accordance with instruc- 
tions of July 24. The letter is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 34. See no. 367, post. ; also Jef- 
ferson's reply, Aug. 30, in Official Letters, II. 175. A circular letter from the President 
complying with instructions of July 25 is ibid., p. 35. 

3 See the Journals, July 27. Cf. no. 268, attfe. 
[348]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

-A draft of Washington's letter to the board of war (July 5) relative to com- 
missions in the New Jersey line is in the 3Vashington Papers. The board's report to 
Congress, bearing date July 11, is in the Journals, July 12. The consideration of the 
report was assigned for Monday, July 17, but it does not appear to have been taken up 
until July 26, when the board's recommendations were negatived. See Washington to 
Sullivan Dec. 17, 1780 (Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 332, ed. Ford, IX. 63), wherein 
several of the problems of promotion are discussed. In a letter to Congress Dec. 20 
(ibid., IX. 68) Washington placed some phases of the problem again before Congress. 
The letter was read Jan. i, 1781, a report brought in Mar. 9, considered and recommitted, 
and action was finally taken upon it May 25. 



Jiily, I/80 299 

on every View of the Subject. When the Government of the State trans- 
mitt us the Arrangement not a moment shall be lost in sending your Ex- 
cellency the Commissions. 

We have the Honour to be, with the highest Respect and Esteem 

your very obedt. Servants 

Richard Peters 
By order and in Behalf of the Board 

349. The Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Camp, Preakniss, July 28, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter of yesterdays date, covering copies of yours to Congress 
of the 26th instant, has been duly received.' 

Persuaded that a change of officers in your department, and at this 
advanced stage of the campaign, of which the business is so very exten- 
sive and complicated, must be attended with the most serious consequences, 

[349]! Librar>' of Congress, Papers Cent. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 177 (copy sent to 
Congress), no. 39, vol. II., f. 91 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 252 (letter-book copy) ; 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 159; Greene, Life of Greene, II. 318 (where, 
however, it is erroneously stated that the letter was signed by Schuyler and Peabody). 
The letter was signed by Schuyler and Mathews. With regard to Peabody see no. 346, 
note 3, ante. 

-Greene's letter to the committee (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 403, 
no. II, p. 244, copy; Greene, Life of Greene, II. 316) is actually dated July 28, although 
it bears an endorsement by Secretary Brasher, "reed, the 27th July 1780". 

"I shall make no comment on the measures of administration", Greene says, "further 
than to remark that to introduce a new system in the middle of a campaign is a bold 
and dangerous experiment, and such an one I believe as never was attempted by any 
nation on earth. I wish it may succeed agreeable to their expectations, but I cannot 
think of making myself responsible by attempting the execution when I see so little 
probability of succeeding." 

His letter to Congress July 26 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 399; copies 
ibid., i. 407, and no. 11, p. 245), read July 29, is in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), 
VII. 512. A copy was transmitted to Washington July 27, with further comments on 
the measure adopted by Congress (ibid., p. 514). The letters are also in Greene, Life of 
Greene, II. 314, 317. See, further, the Journals, July 31, Aug. 1-5; also no. 346, note 2, 
ante, and nos. 350, note 2, 351, post. That which was probably chiefly responsible for 
stirring the wrath of some members of Congress and bringing down upon Greene the 
charge of " insult " was the following passage, particularly the term " administration " : 
" Systems without Agents are useless things ; and the probability of getting the one 
should be taken into consideration in framing the other. Administration seem to think 
it far less important to the public interest to have this department well filled, and prop- 
erly arranged, than it really is, and as they will find it by future experience." 

Greene had chiefly relied for the conduct of the department upon Col. John Cox and 
Charles Pettit. Cox wrote to Greene Aug. 7 : 

" I am informed that the word administration, in your letter of resignation, was so 
highly oft'ensive to Congress, that some of the worthy members immediately on the letter 
being read, moved the House instantly to disrobe you of all military rarik at the same 
time that they accepted your resignation as Quartermaster-general. Others more mod- 
erate, though not at bottom more friendly, objected to a measure so violent, but at the 
same time proposed that Congress should immediately desire the Commander-in-chief 
to signify to you that your future services in the line would be dispensed with until 
your accounts in the Quartermaster's department were settled ; neither of which pro- 
posals, though warmly urged by your enemies, were carried into resolves ; nor do I 



300 Continental Congress 

we have thought it our duty to express our apprehensions to Congress on 
the subject : ^ and have since had a conference on it, with the commander 
in chief, and we are perfectly in sentiment with him, " That your de- 
clining to act at present will be productive of such a scene of confusion 
and distress,'* that it will be impossible to remedy the evil, or to reduce 
the business to a proper channel during the remainder of the campaign." 
We have therefore most earnestly to entreat, that you will continue to 
direct the department until the sense of Congress can be obtained on 
your letter of the 26th, and on ours of yesterday : But as you positively 
decline acting on the plan established by Congress on the 15th instant, 
which has been officially handed to you by the commander in chief, and 
as the consequences which we have stated must inevitably follow, and 
be probably extended to eradicate every hope which the country enter- 
tains of an efficient operation against the enemy, in conjunction with the 
force of our ally, we conceive it indispensibly our duty from these con- 
siderations to require of you to continue in the direction of the quarter 
master generals department under the orders of the commander in chief, 
as signified in his letters to you of the 13th [14th] instant and on the con- 
ditions stated in our letter of the i6th instant until the further pleasure 
of Congress can be known/ And we undertake to justify you for acting 
in consequence of this requisition, and will submit our conduct on this 
occasion to the judgement of Congress.* 

350. EzEKiEL Cornell to Nathanael Greene.^ 

[July 29, 1780.1 
Your letter .... was this day read in Congress containing your de- 
termination not to act in the Quartermaster's department; some warmth 
appeared on the occasion. For my own part, I must confess it would have 
given me pleasure if you could have reconciled yourself so far as to have 
superintended the department until the end of the present campaign, as you 
would thereby [have] kept out of the power of your enemies, at least so far 
as to prevent their tantalizing over you, to the great mortification of your 

believe they dare, great as they are, seriously to attempt anything of the kind, though 
some of your friends have been not a httle alarmed on the occasion" (Greene, Life of 
Greene, II. 324) ; Greene's use in his letter to the committee of the term " administra- 
tion" WAS apparently without thought of the offensive connotation. 

^ See no. 346, ante, and no. 351, post. 

•* In Schuyler's draft the word is " discordes ". Cf. Washington's letter to the 
President of Congress July 30 {Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 363, ed. Sparks, VII. 126). 
See also his letter to Greene Aug. 6 (ibid., VII. 144). 

^ See nos. 318, 322, ante, and no. 351, post. 

^ Greene replied the same day that, with regard to the committee's request that 
he take up the management of the department under General Washington's order of 
July 14, that order had already been cancelled by Washington's letter to him July 26. 
He added, however, " If the General will give a new order authorizing me notwith- 
standing the new system, to proceed in the business independent of it, and as it is the 
request of the Committee that I should continue 'till the sense of Congress is known; 
I will agree to conduct the business for ten days ". Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., 
f. 411, no. II, p. 246 (copy) ; Greene. Life of Greene, II. 319. 
1350]^ Greene, Life of Nathanael Greene, II. 320 (extract). 



July, 1780 301 

friends, of which you have a number in Congress who I believe are unani- 
mous in opinion that your resignation at this time is attended with many 
deHcate circumstances. When I pay the greatest deference to your wis- 
dom and prudence, I cannot but believe it is in the power of Congress to 
hurt your feelings more sensibly than they yet have done, which I am 
ready to believe some of them would be happy in showing an instance of, 
and that soon. Your letter is committed; the committee are Mr. Ward, 
McKean, and Henry, from Maryland. I suppose they will report on Mon- 
day next ; the measures that will be taken I will not undertake to say, but 
I expect debate will run high.^ 

I wrote you a letter sometime since.^ I fear it is mislaid, as I have no 
answer. I cannot take my leave of you without saying that I never ap- 
proved of the plan as adopted by Congress for regulating the Quarter- 
master's department. My greatest objection was, that many of the salaries 
were, as I thought, insufficient, and by that means the public would suffer 
for want of men of ability to act in the several departments, which I ex- 
pected they would soon be sensible of ; and had you continued. Congress 
must have taken all that blame to themselves, which by the steps you have 
taken they will endeavor to lay at your door with too much success. I 
hope I may be mistaken. I suppose there is not a set of men on earth more 
fond of charging their blunders to other people's fault than we are. As I 
conceive the great clamor against the staff departments to be first raised 
in order to charge the depreciation of the currency to their account by 
the Board of Treasury and by them spread like other infections. 

351. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress,^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Paramus July 30th, 1780. 

3 OClock in the morning. 
Sir, 

Previous to our letter of the 28th Inst, to General Greene, Copy whereof 
we have the honor to inclose No. i..' The Commander in Chief came to 
our quarters and informed us the Enemy s movements had rendered it 
necessary that he should Change his position and approach Hudsons 
River. That he had ordered the army to march at three on Saturday morn- 
ing. That as the Quarter Master General had Intimated his intentions to 
Congress, and the Committee, that he would not continue the direction 
of the department under the New System, every species of embarrassment 
would arise and a scene of confusion and distress be produced, which in 
all probability would be Irremediable, and there for [e] entreated the Com- 

- See nos. 343, 345, 346, 349, a>ite, and nos. 354, 355, 357, 363, 366, 3/6, 383, Post. 

^ July 21 (no. 327, ante). 
[351]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cent. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. i74 (in t"e writing 
of Mathews, signed by Schuyler and Mathews), f. 169 (draft by Schuyler), no. 11, p. 
40 (letter-book copy). 

~ No. 349, ante ; see also the endorsement, note 4, below. 



302 Continental Congress 

mittee to apply a remedy. If in their power; a circumstance so painful, 
and which might produce such serious and distressing consequences, called 
for our immediate attention ; nor was it easy to determine on such a line 
of conduct as would not involve the honor of Congress, (to which we are 
Incapable of being indifferent) on one hand, and avoid on the other evils 
beyond what the Generals delicacy would permit him to state to us, and to 
which the Public were so evidently exposed ; We concluded after having 
maturely considered the matter, under the extensive view of all the prob- 
able consequences which would flow from a deprivation of a directing 
head in a Department on which the very operation of the Army depended, 
that a personal conference with General Greene might be productive of 
happy effects ; We accordingly had a conversation with him, the result of 
which was : that he would continue to direct the business untill congress 
could be advised with, by us, provided we should signify what is substan- 
tially contained in the Letter No. i. We accordingly adressed the letter 
to which we received an answer of which No. 2 is a Copy. Alarmed at the 
short period stated by General Greene, as that beyond which he would not 
continue to act ; considering what was proper to be done on this occasion, 
we concluded to desire General Greene to take back his letter, and to re- 
quest a declaration on his part, that he would continue to serve until the 
pleasure of Congress should be known. We determined on this with the 
express view, that if he consented to make the alteration agreable to our 
wish, we would submit to Congress, whether combining every considera- 
tion. It might not be advisable for Congress to withold an answer on the 
subject as stated in our letter No. i. Inclosed, and to let the business slide 
on under the orders of the General, countenanced by the Committee, in 
order to superceed the necessity of repealing an act so recently passed and 
the objections to which were likely to produce a change of Officers and a 
consequent variety of embarrassment in a most critical moment. Impressed 
with the necessity of this measure as the only one which afforded a prob- 
able prospect of bringing this business to any tolerable conclusion, we last 
evening met General Greene and proposed the alteration, he replied. In 
substance " that such an alteration was totally Inadmissable — that if even 
he should continue to act, Colo. Cox and Mr. Pettit would not — That 
others would also resign — That without the two former especially, he 
could not efficiently prosecute the business of the department, already in- 
volved in almost insurmountable difffculties, from the want of money and 
the Jealousies which were entertained in regard to the Officers of the De- 
partment — That nothing less than a repeal of the act of the 15th Inst., 
and a power lodged in the Commander in Chief, in the Committee, or in 
both conjointly to regulate the department as circumstances should re- 
quire, and a request on the part of Congress, to Colo. Cox and Mr. Pettit, 
to re-assure their employments, could again put the business in train and 
induce a continuance of his and their services, in this line — That he re- 
quired no pecuniary reward beyond his necessary expences, nor did Colo. 
Cox make it an object, but Mr. Pettits circumstances would not admit of 
his serving the public without an adequate compensation ". Thus Sir, 
have we stated the transaction on this business and Congress are now fully 



July, ij8o 303 

possessed of all the facts relative to it, and in their deliberations on the 
subject will doubtless contrast two great objects, their dignity, and the 
public Weal, in the present critical situation of our affairs, and come to 
such conclusions as shall appear to them most proper, at the same time 
we will beg leave to observe 

That in whatever point of view we consider our present situation, dis- 
tress in the extreeme presents itself. Intelligence has been received fnot 
yet indeed authenticated but bearing so strongly the semblance of truth, 
that its varacity is little doubted.) That the Enemy are gone in force to 
Rhode-Island, this will probably oblige the General to cross Hudsons 
River, and impell him with his little Army to movements tending to draw 
back the enemys attention. These movements may point at New York, 
but they can merely point for what more can be done, with an Army when 
that department on which so much reliance in operations must be placed, 
is on the point of being totally dissolved — an Army scantly supplied with 
provisions and other necessaries to which the means of transportation is 
not afforded — the forage required not furnished, and the Officers still 
acting in the Quarter Masters Depart't without money to provide either ; 
Indeed Sir, we are arrived at a dreadful period, and nothing now seems 
capable of extricating us from ruin, but decisive and spirited measure[s] 
by Congress in some cases, and a temporising conduct in others, when 
times, exigencies and conjunctures render it indispensible. 

Aware Sir, of the delicacy of giving an opinion on a subject w[h]ere 
the feelings of Congress are so evidently concerned. Nothing could induce 
us to it, but the clearest conviction, founded on the most minute obser- 
vation, and meeting with the Concurrance with the Commander in Chief, 
that a change of Officers in the Quarter Master Genls. Department, in 
this stage of the Campaign, and under the embarrassments of our affairs, 
must be absolutely productive of ruin : under these circumstances we con- 
ceive that to be silent would be criminal ; and therefore must take the free- 
dom of recommending a suspension of the New System for the Quarter 
Masters Departmt., as pressing exigencies have arisen which render it 
necessary for the present, and to empower the Commander in Chief, to 
arrange the Department, in such a manner as to adapt it to the present 
Circumstances of our affairs. 

We have just now received a letter from Genl. Greene of which the 
inclosed No. 3. is a Copy. We have had the subject under consideration 
before, and took measures to procure forage, it seems without effect.^ 

3 Cj. nos. 328, 336, ante, and no. 352, post. Washington wrote to Congress on 
the same day (July 30) : 

"The Committee address Congress by this opportunity to inform them of the most 
disagreeable crisis to which our afltairs are brought in the Quarter Master General's 
department. I think it my duty to assure Congress that I intirely agree with the Com- 
mittee in opinion and that unless effectual measures are immediately taken to induce 
General Greene and the other principal officers of that department to continue their 
services, there must of necessity be a total stagnation of military business. We not 
only must cease the preparations for the campaign; but shall in all probability be obliged 
to disperse if not disband the armv for want of subsistence." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 
152, vol. IX., f. 65; Writings (ed. Ford). \'III. 363. (ed. Sparks), VII. 126. 
24 



304 Continental Congress 

We wish Congress to interfere with as much dispatch as the business 
evidently requires — We have had the honor in the course of this month, 
to address Congress, on matters of the first moment to the Weal of the 
States, a want of adequate information from them, is extreemly distress- 
ing. We therefore intreat their Determination on the most capital articles, 
as on this, which most certainly does not admit of any delay. 

P S. 7. OClock 

Dispatches are this moment arrived from Rhode-Island of the 26th and 
27th Inst. The British fleet is off the harbour, and in such force as to 
give us great pain for the event, should an attack be made on ours. This 
should be kept a secret * 

352. The Committee at He.\dquarters to Moore Furman,^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Robinson's house, July 30, 1780. 
Sir, 

General Greene has represented to us that you cannot procure carriages 
to transport the provisions and other stores which are indispensibly neces- 
sary for the Army, nor forage to subsist the Cattle.^ At this important 
Juncture when the Army cannot be put into a state of activity without 
those supplies. We are decidedly of opinion that you ought not to hesitate 
to procure Carriages or forage by impress, or such other mode as will be 
best calculated to promote the public service.' 

* This letter is endorsed : " Letter from the com'e head Quarters July 30, 1780 
Read Aug. i with nos. i, 2, 3. Referred to Mr. Henry, Mr. McKean, Mr. Ward, Mr. J. 
Jones, Mr. Ingersoll. i. Com'ee to genl. Greene July 28 2. Genl. Greene to Com'ee July 28 
3. do. to do. July 30." 

The three members first named constituted the committee to whom Greene's letter 
of July 26 and the committee's letter of July 27 had been referred, July 29 and 31, 
respectively. Jones and Ingersoll were added when this letter was referred to the same 
committee Aug. i. For the further proceedings see the Journals, Aug. 3, 4, 5, and no. 
346, note 2, ante ; see also no. 350, note 2, ante. 

[352]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 262, no. 39, vol. L, f. 181 
(draft). 

2 In his letter to the committee, July 30, Greene mentions that he had repeatedly 
called attention to the difficulties Furman was encountering in keeping up the trans- 
portation in New Jersey. Furman had informed Green that it would be impossible to 
keep the business in motion under the present embarrassments ; that the state contractors 
were without money and that Furman himself, even if he had money, which he had not, 
was seriously handicapped by the state laws. Unless the committee could fall upon some 
speedy and effectual mode to remedy the evil, Greene declared, the army must starve 
or disband as the transportation was growing longer and more difficult every day. 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 155, vol. I., f. 419, no. 39, vol. I., f. 180, copy, no. 11, p. 248, 
copy. 

3 The letter is signed by Schuyler and Mathews. It is to be observed that the 
committee does not order impressment, but only strongly counsels it. On the following 
day, however, Washington did empower Furman to impress means of transportation 
and forage, so far as might be necessary (Library of Congress, Washington Papers, 
draft). On the 30th he had given such an order to General Greene (ibid.). Cf. nos. 
315, 338, 351, ante. 



August, I J 80 305 

353. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(WiLLL\M Greene).^ 

Philadelphl\ August ist 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do myself the honour to Write your Excellency by this post. Altho 
I have nothing new to write, yet like all the human specie, I cannot help 
complaining when in distress. All public business, appears to be nearly at 
a stand. Part of the Ten Millions of Dollars, the states were called on for 
by the Resolution of the 19th May, hath been paid into the Treasury, 
which gave us a momentary relief, but is now every farthing expended. 
Our public officers cannot command any, if the salvation of our Country 
should depend on that single point. The necessity of appointing General 
Washington, sole dictator of America, is again talked of as the only means 
under God by which we can be saved from destruction. At the same time, 
some reprobate the measure.^ It appears to me that of the two evils neces- 
sity will soon compel us to make our choice I hope we shall be so wise as 
to chuse the least. The people will not work for the Continent without 
money or trust her for any articles, wanted for the Army. Therefore they 
must be supported by the force of Military Law, or disband, until the new 
bills is put into circulation — when that will be I know not. 

354. Ezekiel Cornell TO Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia August ist 1780^ 
Dear S'r, 

I wrote you on Saturday last mentioning your letter containing your 
refusal to act as Q M General since which a letter from General Wash- 
ington another from the Committee at Head Quarters inclosing your let- 
ters to them on the same subjects have been read in Congress. The Comtt 
I mentioned in my last reported yesterday that report with the formen- 
tioned letters is recommited. If I can judge from information and from 
my own observation I shall be happy if the dispute shall terminate more 
favourable to you then the passing a Resolution ordering the Commander 
in chief to excuse you from all further Command in the line of the Army 
untill you shall have fully settled all your accompts in the Q. M. G. De- 
partment. In a word I believe it is the wish of some that the suspensation 
may finally opperate as a final discharge. I am convinced your conduct is 
considered in a different point of view from what you expected ^ 

I am with every sentiment of esteem 

your most obedt Huml Servant 

E C[orne]ll 

[353]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 24; Staples, R. I. in Ccmt. Cong., 
p. 303. 

2 The question actually before Congress at this time was whether the restric- 
tion limiting the operations of the commander-in-chief to the United States should be 
removed. This was done by resolution Aug. 2. Cornell voted in the affirmative. See nos. 
232, 248, 287, 322, note 17, ante, and no. 434, post. 
[354]^ William L. Qements Library, Greene Papers. 
2 See no. 350, ante. 



300 Continental Congress 

355. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee/ 

Philadelphia ist Augt. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Quarter Master General at a most critical period has signi- 
fied an inclination to resign, this Morning will probably produce an ac- 
ceptance but not without traits of displeasure. The present conduct of that 
Gentleman seems to give much dissatisfaction within doors, what can 
have tempted him to treat Congress with sneer and sarcasm ? he applies 
to them the odious epithet, Administration, and is so fond of the conceit 
as to repeat and reiterate his wit." 

The General Ofiicers in the same unlucky moment remonstrate for 
means which shall enable them to dress and keep Tables upon a par with 
Officers of their Rank in the Army of our Ally, a friend of yours says 
Aye! the demand is reasonable — a Warrant moreover should be Issued for 
furnishing them with equipages, good breeding and education equally 
with the French Nobility, said Officers, " to be accountable ". These are 
cursed troublesome affairs in a cursed troublesome conjuncture of knotty 
points. Majr. Gen. Mcdougal I am told is waiting an answer, but we have 
not yet determined that Congress shall be enabled to live in splendor equal 
to that of the Minister of France, nor that the American Minister at Ver- 
sailles shall cut as superb a figure as the Venetian Ambassador, 'tis to 
be hoped the General Officers will not insist upon taking by force the right 
hand of fellowship, what shall we conclude of the designs of Gentlemen 
who demand what they know cannot be granted.^ .... 

356. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 

Peak's Kill August ist, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

T am a good deal surprised at not having heard from you since I left 
Phila. 

On the enemy's making a movement towards Rhode Island, our army 
moved on towards the grand point of our intended operation to be ready 
to take advantage of favorable circumstances but their sudden return to 
New York, has, I fear disconcerted all our plans, and we must now return 
to our original one, how far we shall be able to pursue it, and whether to 
expect, circumstances and time must determine — Whatever important 
changes from time to time happen this way, you may be assured of being 
informed of. 

The arrival of the French fleet in so weak a state, when Graves's sail- 
ing must have been known, is a political stroke I cannot develop — Can 
you? I almost give over all hopes of a Southern Campaign this winter, 

[355]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 See nos. 345, 346, 349, note 2, 350. 351, 354, ante, and nos. 357, 363, 366, 376. 
383, post. 

■''The memorial, bearing the date July 11, was transmitted by the committee at 
headquarters July 23 (no. 336, ante), but appears not to have been taken into considera- 
tion until Aug. 3. See, further, the Jourtials, Aug. 12, 24, and nos. 357, 375, 387, post. 
[356]^ Charleston Library Society, Misc. MSS. 



August, 1780 307 

for without a superiority at Sea, the thing is not to be undertaken. I sup- 
pose 'ere this you'll have seen Izard, full of wrath, and indignation. I 
have not time to say more, than to request my Complt's to Mrs. Bee, 
and Miss Smith, and to assure you that I am My D'r Bee, Yours most 
sincerely 

357. John Armstrong to William Irvine.^ 

„ ^ , Philada. 3d August 1780. 

Dear General, ^ 

.... As you are now to have but a few hints, the great concern of 
an Empty Treasury with a thousand daily demands, forms the front line 
of my highest fears and deepest distress. We want at this moment to 
draw money, produce, transportation etc. from these States to whom we 
are already deeply indebted, and whom our delinquency in payment dis- 
enables from advancing those Taxes whereon at present we depend. How 
the Scheme of business and Finance contained in the resolution of the 
1 8th of March last will operate for our relief is yet uncertain but doubted 
by too many, for altho' it is considered by many good judges to be at 
once just and wise respecting the publick at large, yet various individuals 
suppose themselves injured or disappointed by fixing the money at forty 
to One, and therefore decry the measure.^ Mr. Laurens by our reverse 
of fortune in South Carolina has been retarded in his Voiage to Holand 
for which place he sets out from hence in a few day's for the purpose of 
borrowing money for the United States. Mr. Sarel [Searle] was Set out 
(before yr. letter came to hand) for Holland also, in order to procure 
Goathing for the Pennsylvania line of our Army, with some other neces- 
saries for the State, which if he is successful, I hope may be of some use 
to us. Genl. Greens peremtory Resignation in the business of Or. M : 
Gl. or refusal to act under the new regulation for that Departmt. at this 
very critical moment, has at once disappointed and thrown Congress into 
a degree of vexatious distress, greater than can well be expressed, or has 
yet happened in regard of any individual, nine tenths of the difficulty 
arises from the importance of the present moment. The Committee of 
Congress at Camp appears to make Genl. Greens continuance of absolute 
necessity, so that if he is retained, the measures of Congress for reform- 
ing that department must be recinded, and the Censures of the publick 
must remain agst. Congress, as deaf to their remonstrances for the refor- 
mation of abuses.^ The Remonstrance of the Genl. Officers was this morn- 
ing read and Committed to a Respectable Committee,* the greater part 
whereof will in my Opinion meet the Cordial attention of Congress who 
are as well disposed to do any thing in their power that is in itself right, 
as men can be * 

[357]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers, X.; Hisi. Mag., VIII. 16. 

2 See nos. 314, 340, ante, 396, 397, post. 

3 See no. 355, note 2, ante. 

* See no. 355, note 3. ante. 

5 In a passage here omitted Armstrong discusses the controversy between Gen- 
erals Irvine and Hand respecting rank. See Armstrong's letter to Irvine Oct. 30, 1779.. vol. 
IV. of these Letters, no. 623. A board of general officers had recently (July 4-5) adjudi- 
cated the case (Washington Papers). Cf. Washington to Wayne Sept. 6 {Writings, ed. 
Ford, VIII. 423, ed. Sparks, VII. 187). 



308 Continental Congress 

[P. S.] The present State of Our Southern department is very for- 
biding the letters of Genl. Gates and Baron De Calb, draw the picture of 
universal want, more particularly in the Articles of money and provisions. 
Genl. Green having so peremtorily refused the necessary service, is likely 
to be discharged from all other. Today must end this disagreeable mat- 
ter.® I beg you will present my best wishes to the Gent'n of our line. I 
intend this by Coll Johnstone, together with a conference before he set 
out. J. A. 

358. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, Augt. 3d, 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

I receivd your favor of the 13th of July by yesterdays Post. On my 
Journey I met Mr. Gerry at Hartford, where we were unexpectedly en- 
gaged in publick Business with Governor Trumbull." I utterly forgot that 
I had your Letter to him, but since you have empowerd me to open it, 
I find, it would have been no Advantage to you to have deliverd it to him 
there. I waited upon the only Gentleman of the Committee of Commerce 
now in Town,^ who told me your Account was not settled. I urgd it, and 
will continue to do so as a Matter which ought not to be delayd. \Mien 
this is done, I will pursue the Step which you request.'* .... 

The Doctor ^ is this Moment going, which prevents my adding to this 
Letter. I refer you to him for Intelligence. 

359. The Committee at Headquarters to the 
President of Congress.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Peeks Kill, Augt. 3d, 1780. 
Sir, 

Deeply impressed with the necessity of a speedy determination on the 
plan proposed to Congress for arranging the Inspectors and Muster Mas- 
ters Departments, we beg leave to call the attention of Congress to that 
business ; as the troops are daily coming in and there are no proper officers 

6 A letter from Kalb was read in Congress July 31, and one from Gates Aug. 4. 
See nos. 360, 370, post. 

[358] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, TI. 137. 

2 See nos. 236, 237, ante. 

2 Three members of the committee of commerce, namely, John Fell, Edward 
Telfair, and Timothy Matlack, were in attendance Aug. "2, as shown by the yeas and 
nays. 

* See no. 467, post. A certificate in Warren's favor was presented to Congress 
by the committee of commerce Nov. 28 and referred to the board of treasury, "to 
devise ways and means " of paying it. 

5 This must refer to Dr. Samuel Holten ; if so, however, the date of this letter 
must be wrong. Holten records in his Diary under Aug. 2 : "I set out from Philadel- 
phia to Boston and am now at Mr. Thompkins 17 miles from the city " (Essex hist. 
Hist. Colls., LVI. 95). The substitution of a member of the committee on post-office 
in his room, Aug. i, indicates that he had already withdrawn from Congress or was on 
the point of doing so. 

[359]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 211 (signed by 
Schuyler and Mathews), f. 210 (draft), no. 11, p. 43. 



August, i/8o 309 

yet appointed to muster them, for want of whom great abuses are likely 
to arise, as it is impossible to know whether the quotas required of the 
several States are compleated, or not, or what numbers have actually 
joined the Army, particularly of the Militia." 

360. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

<^. Philada. August 4, 1780. 

I have just Time to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of the 20th 
Ulto. with the Despatches therein referred to. this Moment received per 
Express. 

Congress some Days since appointed a Committee to take into Con- 
sideration the State of the Southern Department, to whom your 
Despatches are referred. 

You may be assured Congress will take every Measure in their Power 
to aid that Department, and place the Army under your Command in bet- 
ter Circumstances as fast as the deranged State of our Finances and the 
Circumstances of the Country will admit." 

361. John Mathews to the President of Congress.^ 

^^. Head Quarters, Peekskill Augt. 6, 1780. 

By a private letter I this day received from a Member of Congress, I 
am informed that a report of a Committee then lay before Congress, in 
which it is recommended to accept the Quarter Master Generals resig- 
nation.^ Convinced from long experience that the decisions of Congress 
are not very rapid, tho on matters of the last importance, I am induced 
to address myself to you on this subject, hoping it may reach you before 
the final decision of this business. 

Although alone (necessarily so by Mr. Peabody's indisposition and 
absence at Morris Town, and General Schuylers call to Albany on his 

- A plan for the inspector-general's department, transmitted by Washington to 
Congress July 14, insisting that it was " indispensable that the department be put into full 
activity without loss of time" (see no. 316, ante), was read in Congress July 17, and 
consideration assigned for the following Thursday (July 20). Although this letter of 
the committee was received Aug. 7, it was not until the 14th, when a letter of Aug. 3 
from Baron Steuben was read, that the plan for the inspector-general's department was 
put in way of consideration by being referred to the board of war. The board brought 
in a report Aug. 24, which was further considered Sept. 23, and, after modifications, 
was adopted Sept. 25. Steuben wrote Washington Oct. 22, that the plan had been so 
much altered since it left his hands that "it does not at all resemble itself" {Letters to 
Washington, ed. Sparks, IV. 126). Some amendments were adopted Dec. 4. 
[360]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 63. 

2 See the Jounmls, July 28, Aug. 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 12, and nos. 368, 370, 377, 408, 
post. Governor John Rutledge wrote to Gates the same day, saying that he had arrived 
in Philadelphia the night before and was happy to find that Gates had been chosen to 
command the Southern army (N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XVIL). See also Rut- 
ledge to Washington, Aug. 27, in Letters to IVashington (ed. Sparks), IIL 64. 

[361 ]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. L, f. 213, f. 215 (draft), 
no. II, p. 43 (letter-book copy). 

2 See the Jourmls, July 29, 31, Aug. i, 3, 4, 5, and nos. 346, 349-351. 354, 355, 
357, ante. Mathews' letter was read in Congress Aug. 11, and later the same day the 
committee was recalled. See nos. 365, 373, 376, 383, 385, 394, 400, 434, post. 



310 Continental Congress 

private business) yet I conceive it my duty to give every information to 
Congress where, in my opinion, the interest of the United States is inti- 
mately concerned. That it is so in the present case, must be evident to 
every unprejudiced man, who will take the trouble to think a little. The 
late movement of the Enemy towards Rhode-Island rendered it necessary 
for our army to move. How could this have been effected, without the 
immediate and particular superintendence of the Officers of the Quarter 
Master Generals department? Circumstances have rendered it necessary 
for this Army again to take post in the Jerseys. The same question again 
arises — But allowing that on the resignation of the head of this Depart- 
ment another officer was ready to step into his place, is it reasonable, is it 
consistant with Common-sense, to suppose, that in a Department so com- 
plex, so diffuse as this is, a man can be found capable of acquiring a com- 
petent knowledge of the business in a days time ( for there is not a day in 
the present situation of affairs, but it is indispensibly necessary,) so as to 
be enabled to discharge this great trust, either with honor to himself, or 
to the interest of these States. I believe human genious is incapable of 
such an exertion. It may be said, it is not the whole Department that is 
meant to be displaced, but only the head of it, and there are other officers 
now in it, well acquainted with the business, some one of whom, may be 
induced to take it up, and go on with it. But I think I can with some de- 
gree of confidence assert, that for the same reasons the present Quarter 
Master General offers to quit it, no other officer now in it, capable of the 
trust, will accept it ; on the contrary, no other reasons induce such to con- 
tinue in it, but a continuance of the head of the Department; add to this, 
the apparent suspencion of the system of the 15th Ult: (let it be remem- 
bered that in this department, is included the forage, the Waggon, and 
the artificers) annihilate it, and I would be glad to know, how your Army 
is to march one mile? Without a head a body is an useless trunk. That 
this whole department must be thrown into the most irreclaimable con- 
fusion (I mean for this Campaign) and rendered totally useless for the 
remainder of it, should Congress either accept the resignation of the 
present head of it, or persist in its being conducted under the system of 
the 15th Ult: I will undertake to pronounce with the most decisive con- 
fidence. It may be asked, whether Congress are to be dictated to, by their 
Officers? I answer without hesitation, that on the present occasion they 
must ; necessity compels them to it, and it is a duty they owe their con- 
stituents, not to suffer punctilio, to militate against their essential inter- 
ests. If there are men in the great council of this nation, capable of such 
a conduct, I will not say what I think are their deserts. I have mentioned 
that displacing the officers in the Quarter Masters Department at this 
time, must militate against the welfare and interests of these states, as 
thus. The Eyes, not only of our Country, but of all Europe are turned on 
America, and impatiently wait the Issue of the present Campaign. The 
consequence resulting from it being a successfull one, on the contrary, 
every member fit to hold a seat in Congress may easily enough determine. 



August, I/80 311 

From the flattering expectations held up to this country, of rendering the 
present — With the divine support — a decisive Campaign, The states have 
been called on to make very extraordinary exertions. Almost all of them 
have gone great lengths, and are still pursuing the most vigorous meas- 
ures to attain this very desirable end — Some of them under considerable 
disadvantages, so much so, as will greatly debilitate them, and render their 
future exertions extreemly difficult. Under these circumstances, suppose 
our army was to be arrested, at the place of their next encampment, and 
not be in a capacity to move from thence, during the remainder of the 
Campaign, for the want of proper Officers to put it in Motion? (That 
this will be the case appears to me beyond a doubt, if it is to depend on a 
new sett of Officers) How then, are the people of this country, to be recom- 
pensed for the extraordinary burthens they have subjected themselves to? 
\\'ho will undertake to satisfy their discontents, the natural result of so 
grevious a disappointment, and caused by so impolitic a measure ? Thus 
it evidently appears to me, Sir, that an adoption of the report I have al- 
luded to will produce a total derangement of this Department, consequently 
put an end to the Campaign — render us in the Eyes of all the world more 
contemptable than any people that ever existed — And we shall be branded 
with the epithet of mere pretenders to the blessings of liberty: But, Mr. 
President, permit me to call the attention of Congress to another consid- 
eration — Remember the Gentleman at the head of your Army — Much is 
due to him — Remember the sacrifices he has made of his domestic ease 
and felicity, and is daily making of his private interest in the service of 
his Country, in one of the most laborious stations that almost any man 
ever encountered with the fortitude and success that he has hitherto done, 
whose extraordinary merits require not my pen to enumerate. For Gods 
Sake ! have some regard to his feelings ; and do not reduce him to the sad 
dilemma, which this step must inevitably do, and oblige him at once to 
relinquish every hope of rendering the least service to his country. This 
would be cruelty to him, and injustice to America. 

I have Sir, with freedom written my Sentiments, on this Subject, such 
as becomes one as a member of Congress, and a man who feels the wel- 
fare of his Country far dearer to him than every other consideration in 
life. My present situation enables me to take a more comprehensive view 
of this business, than it is possible for other -Members of Congress to do, 
confined as they are to a single Spot, removed at the distance of One hun- 
dred and fifty miles from the Army; therefore more competent to give 
proper information on the Subject. 

I have done my duty to my country — Congress will judge for them- 
selves, and let future events determine the fitness or unfitness of their 
decision. 

[ have the honor to be With the highest respect 

Your Excellency's Most Obt. Humble Servant 

Jno. Mathews 



312 Continental Congress 

362. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

MoRRiSTOWN, Augt. 6th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been lately favoured with your letter of the 13th May last, (it 
went to Philada. and I found it on its Journey back to the Eastward) 
acknowledging my letters of the 8th of Feby. and 17th of March, last. 
Since which I have wrote you two very long letters, respecting various 
subjects; in one I inform'd you of my being unexpectedly appointed one 
of a Committee to a most disagreeable. Arduous service, And requested 
you to Continue to write me as often as possible. And promised in return, 
to give a line as frequent as my Circumstances would by any means 
permit." 

And you will readily Judge, that the business assigned the Committee 
has been more than sufficient to occupy the Greatest mind, And engross 
the whole Attention. It has not been for want of true and real regard, to 
you, and many others, that I have not wrote much oftener. For some time 
past, I have Scarce wrote once a month to my family 

I have been in Camp from the latter end of April last, till since Mr. 
Emery ^ return'd home, during which time the Army underwent several 
Changes. They know what it is to want, but not to abound. 

I have seen them inviron'd in almost every species of distress, Though 
things begin to look a little more favourable. The Army increases fast 
and a tolerable prospect, all Circumstances Considered, of Supplies. But 
I am not without Great Anxiety for the Event of this Campaign. There 
are many contingencies on which the fate depends. 

Beside which there are generally found men in the Councils of every 
Nation and People, who find means under some plausable pretext or other, 
to render the best Concerted plans abortive. Can we suppose the councils 
of America more virtuous, or, her plans less vulnerable than those of 
other Nations? 

Whenever anything decisive and important is set on foot, designing 
men will always find out a Diana, or some other favourite Goddess, in 
danger, and under her banners, with Great Zeal, Alarm even the honest 
and well meaning among the Citizens, and excite them violently to oppose 
the measure. Such envious Zeal, and malevolent practices, ensure to the 
authors great Confidence and applause, not only from the devotees to the 
invaded Goddess, but many well meaning Citizens who Suffer themselves 
to be led blindfold by their Machinations! This my friend is a Lamenta- 
tion and shall be had for a Lamentation ! . . . . 

Johnsons Golden shrines may have made proselites to his Master. Who 
knows the power of Gold ? You, and I, my friend, have not had the Chance 
of knowing by Diabolical experience, if we had, I will venture to assert, 

[362]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, vol. II., 1779-1790. 

2 The letter of Feb. 8 is no. 40, ante; that of Mar. 17 (Bartlett Corr.) is nearly 
identical with the letter of the same date to Weare, no. 96, ante ; the other letters have 
not been found. 

3 In a letter to President Weare, July 25, Peabody mentions that Mr, Emery 
had been appointed by the quartermaster-general and the commissary-general to receive 
all the supplies from that state. Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. r8o. 



August, I /So 313 

it would not have influenced us in the manner, I have but too much reason 
to beheve it has some others, in whose power it is to do us much harm. 

America has it in her power speedily to put an end to this Cruel, and 
bloody War. If it is not done, ought there not to be an enquiry who has 
been the means of procrastinating the happy hour of peace and Inde- 
pendence ? 

I once read of a people who were at times led by a Cloud; And I have 
known a people whose Grand Multiform d Sanhedrim were often times 
in the midst of a Fog. You will Judge how disimilar their situations. 
I see a Fog, or Cloud, rising with a fire in the midst, which, if not soon 
dispell'd, and extinguished. Will in all probability greatly distress the 
Army, if not totally mar the proposed operations of this Campaign! The 
only object we can now have in view, must be to raise and Establish an 
Army, for the War, Which must be done upon a permanent basis. The 
terms must be both honourable, and profitable. Can we expect men any 
longer to encounter every species of hardship, and danger, to fight our 
battles, without a prospect of some other reward, than Cold, hunger, 
poverty, and disgrace? The raising of men by draft, or otherwise, for 
short terms has been found burthensome to the Citizen, And ruinous to 
the Army. We have always two Armies to feed, and pay. Vast numbers 
Continually Comming and Going; which sad experience has taught us. 
Serves only to take oflf the honest husbandman from improving his farm. 
Lessen the produce of the Earth; Exhaust your Treasury; Destroy your 
Arms; waste your ammunition; Expend the magazines of provision; 
Greatly increase the Necessity, but diminish the means, of Transporta- 
tion. In short it deranges every System, and renders Calculation alto- 
gether uncertain. Upon this mode of proceeding, You Can Never have 
an Army in the field, by any means, proportionable to the Expence, or ade- 
quate to the indispensable demand of the Service. 

For all this enormous Toil and expence. What have we in return ? A 
few raw undiciplin'd troops raised for a short period; by the time they 
are inured to a Camp life, And with great fatigue to the officers, and ex- 
pence to the United States, a little diciplin'd, and become in a degree mar- 
tialists. Capable of rendering Service, the terms for which they inlisted 
expire! The Army derives but very little aditional Strength from such 
merits. Such aid must nevertheless be Sometimes Call'd forth, in Cases 
of urgent Necessity, but as auxiliaries only. They must not be too much 
depended on. The cause deserves other means for Support. America has 
it in her power to furnish those means. The exigencies of the time renders 
it indispensable. For was it possible, in the nature of things, that our 
Cause could be a little longer Supported in this way, without hazarding 
the loss of our Allies, The increase of our Enemies, and missing the 
Golden opportunity for Establishing our Independence, The resources of 
the Country would be incompetent for the purpose. The mines of peru 
would scarce Supply your Treasury. The Community Could not long 
indure it. 

Can we, upon rational Grounds, expect to pursue the war with vigor, 
and success, or to Negociate a peace to advantage, while in our present 



314 Continental Congress 

Labyrinth? Our enemies, foreign and domestic, fully Comprehend our 
situation. They know where we are vulnerable, and where Not. Can we 
expect New friends will rise up to our Support ? Let us but have an army 
m the field upon a proper establishment. Such as the nature and impor- 
tance of the Service Absolutely demand, And America fully capable to 
furnish, and my life on the issue, such decisive measures being pursued 
on our part, other Nations Convinced we are determined to be free, will 
step forth to our aid, and Check the Careers of our Enimies, which will 
Compel them within, and without, at home, and abroad, instantly to re- 
linquish all pretentions of Conquest, And to sue for peace, almost on 
our own Terms. 

The whole dependence of our Enemy, for Success, has not for a long 
time been on the real weakness of America, but upon ruining our finances, 
which is well nigh Completed, and on our not having an Army, properly 
established, in the field. 

It might not be improper to observe in this place, that the usual Cal- 
culations in all Armies, are, that a much Greater proportion of men die 
by sickness within the first four months of their entering a Camp life, 
than for four Years after that term is expired. It might also be observed, 
that the usual disparity in pay, given to persons who turn out for short 
time, and to the regular Troops, Cannot fail to impress the most disagre- 
able Ideas among those who are engaged during the War 

But why should I trouble you thus much, with my thoughts upon a 
matter with which you are so fully acquainted, especially, as I am sure 
your knowledge of public affairs and daily observation must suggest to 
your mind Ideas more adequate to the subject in question. If I have been 
unguarded in expressing my sentiments, your Candour will impute it to 
Zeal, and not to want of rectitude of intention. 

I cannot Conclude, without mentioning the high sense I entertain of 
the honor and merit due to that state, for its decisive and spirited exer- 
tions, at this Critical, and Alarming Juncture: it is Confess'd by many 
that not another State in the Union, has a Claim to higher, if there is one, 
to equal merit, with the State of New Hamp'e upon this occasion.* .... 

363. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 
Dear S'r [Philadelphia, August 6 ( ?) 1780.]^ 

Your Letter to Col. Harrison turns out as I expected before I received 
your full information. If the whole had been read and attended to it was 

* In a concluding passage Peabody mentions that he has been in Morristown 
about a week, in an effort to recover his health. See no. 361, ante, and nos. 379, 424, 446, 
post. 

[363]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 51; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 21; Greene, Life of Nathanael Greene, 
II. 327 (extract). 

-The conjectural date given to this letter by Sparks is Aug. 7, by Ford Aug. 6. 
The reference to Pickering's appointment (Aug. 5) and the undetermined question of 
his acceptance (which was given in Aug. 7) suggest Aug. 6 as the proper date. On the 
other hand, the reference to the Martinique letter, which President Huntington says 
on Aug. 7 (no. 364, post) had just been received, points to Aug. 7. However, Jones may 
have seen this letter on the evening of Aug. 6. In his reply, Aug. 13 ( Writings, ed. Ford, 
VIII. 378, ed. Sparks, VII. 149), Washington says the letter "came to hand yesterday". 



August, I/80 315 

impossible to put any other construction on your manner of treating the 
subject than to convince your correspondent of the absolute necessity of 
great exertions this Campaign, while we had a promising prospect before 
us. lest by remissness and delay we should find our ally as well as our- 
selves -embarrassed with greater difficulties than at present, and I very 
sincerely wish, should this summer pass away without some signal ad- 
vantage gained on our part we may not find your conjectures verified in 
the event. ^ 

I have my hopes we shall yet be able to do something important upon 
the arrival of the French reinforcement as I presume their Fleet will then 
command the water without which I confess, I have no sanguine expecta- 
tions. With the command of the water the enterprise may be successful. 
Mr. Bingham has reed, a Letter from Martinique informing him the com- 
bined Fleets fell to Leeward on the 5th July supposed for Jamaica thirty 
three or thirty six ships of the line and 12000 Troops. They expected a 
reinforcement of a few thousand Troops more. If this account be true 
it is probable Jamaica will fall and that we may have them along our coast. 

You are desired by some late resolutions to turn your thoughts towards 
the recovery of S. Carolina and Georgia as soon as the operations of the 
Campaign in this quarter have been executed. Gates's and De Kalbs Let- 
ters represent the distresses of the Southern Department in a very gloomy 
light as to provisions and equipments. The Virga. Recruits when raised 
are ordered to join that army, if this interfere with your plans you should 
let us know it as they will not be ready to march until the beginning of 
next month.* .... 

We have been greatly perplexed the last week with General Greenes 
refusal to act in the office of Quarter Master General unless the New 
System was totally repealed and he was allowed to conduct it under your 
direction in such manner as he thought most conducive to the Public 
Service besides Congress were to request Pettit and Cox to resume their 
offices. If Genl. Greene thought the new System wanted amendment and 
had pointed out the defect Congress wo'd have considered the matter and 
I doubt not wo'd have made the necessary alteration. But the manner of 
these demands made in such peremptory terms, at the moment of action 
when the Campaign was opened the Enemy in the Field and our ally wait- 
ing for Cooperation has lessened Genl. Greene not only in the opinion of 
Congress but I think of the Public, and I question whether it will termi- 
nate with the Acceptance of his Refusal only. On Saturday Colo. Pick- 
ering was appointed to the office of Quarter Master General with the rank 
of Colonel and the pay and Rations of a Brigadier General and to hold 
his place at the Board of war without pay or right to act while in the office 
of Quarter Master General. This Gentlemans Integrity Ability and atten- 
tion to Business will I hope not only prevent the evils to be apprehended 

3 In his letter to Washington July 18 (no. 321, ante, passage omitted there) 
Jones asked about a letter which he had heard Washington had written to Benjamin 
Harrison, speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, respecting French finances, 
etc. Harrison, Jones had heard, was making such a use of the letter as " was like to 
prejudice rather than promote the service", and added, "Between ourselves, I fear that 
worthy man is no zealous friend of the alliance". 

* See the Journals, Aug. 5. 



316 Continental Congress 

from a change in so important a Department at this time but will I hope 
be able to reform some of the abuses crept into that Business and lessen 
the amazing expenditures of the Department. He must if he accepts have 
a disagreeable office in the present state of our Finances but we must sup- 
port him all we can.^ The promotion I lately mentioned has not taken 
place though if we take up the Business I suppose it will be done as M. is 
the oldest Colonel and Gates is the only Major General belonging to Virga. 
and the State has a right to two but I see no occasion of stirring in it at 
present as if taken up it must be upon the general principle of promotion 
and then not only Virga. but Maryland and other States will expect to par- 
take of the same privilege of bringing forward their officers, when I be- 
lieve there are few States whose lines are so full as to justify the pro- 
motions.^ 

364. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters.^ 

Philadelphia August 7, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

I have the Honor to transmit you the enclosed Intelligence just come to 
Hand.^^ 

My Informant who brought me this Intelligence adds, that the whole 
number of Troops which saild from Martinique for Jamaica were 16,000. 
That Monsr. de Bougainville mentioned as about to sail for America, 
must be understood from France, the Account having reached Martinique. 

5 See the Journals, July 29 to Aug. 5 ; also nos. 264, 350, 355, ante, and nos. 
366, 376, 383, post; see also Greene to Washington Aug. 5, in Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), III. 48. Washington's reply to this letter of Jones was confined to 
Jones's remark concerning the affair of General Greene, " I question whether it will 
terminate with the Acceptance of his Refusal only ". " If by this ", said Washington, 
" it is in contemplation to suspend him from his command in the line, of which he made 
an express reservation at the time of entering on the other duty, and it is not already 
enacted, let me beseech you to consider well what you are about before you resolve." 
He then pointed out in very plain language what the consequences of such a step would 
be. See Jones's reply, Sept. 6, no. 422, post. See also Washington to Greene Aug. 15 
{Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 153, ed. Ford, VIII. 381 n.). 

^ The allusion is to the case of Col. Daniel Morgan. See no. 321, ante. Morgan 
was made brigadier-general Oct. 13. See no. 486, post. 

[364]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 122. 

2 Cj. nos. 340, 363, ante, and nos. 367, 379, 387, post. The intelligence was an 
" Extract of a Letter dated Martinique the 7th July 1780 ", stating that twelve ships of 
the line (Spanish) and thirteen thousand troops commanded by Monsr. de Solano had 
arrived there and had set sail for Jamaica " yesterday ", accompanied by the fleet, under 
the command of Count de Guichen, reinforced by sundry regiments and detachments, 
the land forces being under the command of the Marquis de St. Simon. It was reported 
there that these were to be joined by a considerable body of forces detached from Havana, 
commanded by "Don Bonnet" (Juan Bautista Bonet), and also that Monsr. de Bougain- 
ville, with four ships of the line and four thousand troops, would sail immediately for 
America to join the forces under the command of Monsr. de Ternay (Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 123). President Huntington transmitted the intelligence to 
Washington the same day, and Washington in replying (Aug. 20, Writings, ed. Ford, 
VIII. 386, ed. Sparks, VII. 156) took occasion to set forth at length the difficulties of 
his situation and to press upon Congress suggestions for remedying them. 



August, 1780 317 

365. John Mathews to the President of Congress.^ 

Camp near Clarks Town Augt. 8, 1780. 
Sir, 

I inclose you copy of a letter I received late the last evening from the 
commissary general.^ 

As the State of Pensylvania must be depended on for the article of 
flour, and as all communications to that State must now come from Con- 
gress, I conceive it indispensibly necessary to give the earliest information, 
that measures may be taken to prevent another fasting in the Army, Its 
increase by men unaccustomed to hardships, promise little hopes, that in 
its present state, the distresses they lately experienced will be now borne 
with the same fortitude and resignation which they then were. 

Congress will observe, by Mr. Blaine's letter, that the magazine at Tren- 
ton is empty. This was the only one the Army had to rely on, and I was 
in hopes it would have been regularly and amply supplied, from that 
source which Congress have been frequently told was our great depen- 
dence. I could not however give up my hopes that the flour had been for- 
warded, and if not at Trenton, it must be at Easton: But on enquiry of 
Mr. Blaine, he informs me he is certain there is none at that place, if 
there was he must have known it immediately. Therefore the small quan- 
tity in Sussex county, being all the flour the commissary General can at 
this time command, is a circumstance truly alarming. 

I shall immediately write to the other States to hasten forward the 
Cattle.' 

366. Ezekiel Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(WiLLL\M Greene).^ 

Philadelphl\ August 8th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter, of the 22nd Ulto., 
by yesterdays post. I immediately, communicated the contents, to Con- 
gress. It was referred to the Board of Treasury, for them to consider, 
and report what could be done. As they are supposed to be masters of 

[365]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 217 (L. S.), f. 216 
(draft), no. 11, p. 46 (letter-book copy). 

2 Blaine's letter, dated Aug. 7, speaks of the increasing size of the army and the 
consequent increase in the consumption of provisions, the exhaustion of the magazine at 
Trenton, with not more than eight days' supply within the neighborhood of the army, 
the unsatisfactory condition of the beef supply — not a bullock from Connecticut in four 
weeks — and asks the committee to use every means to press the states to comply with 
their requisitions (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 254, copy). Cj. no. 383, post. 

3 Such a letter does not appear to have been written. This letter from Mathews 
was read in Congress Aug. 14 and committed, and the committee reported Aug. 15 (see th< 
Journals). Cf. Blaine to Reed Aug. 3 (two letters), and Reed's reply (undated). Pa. 
Arch., first sen, VIII. 479, 480, 494. A letter from Blaine to the governor of Mary- 
land Aug. 3, corresponding in purport and largely identical in language with the 
second of the letters to Reed mentioned above, is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 39. See also 
Blaine to Governor Clinton Aug. 9, in Clinton Papers, VI. 92. Clinton's reply, Aug. 18, 
is ibid., p. 121. 

[366]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 32; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 

P- 303- 



318 Continental Congress 

our Finances. I shall do everything in my power to obtain a spe[e]dy 
determination, And as soon as obtained I shall loose no time, in transmit- 
ting the same to you. It is with concern I inform you, I have it not in my 
power to give you any encouragement that you will receive any releif 
from Congress. I can only add they have it not in their power, to grant 
releif on any one application for money, let the sum be ever so small.' 

I mentioned to you sometime since, that General Greene had declined 
serving as O. M'r General, which was accepted after near a weeks alter- 
cation. And Colo. Pickering was appointed to that place, with the rank 
of Colo, and pay of Brigdr. General.^ .... 

P. S. Since writing the above, an express hath arrived from General 
Gates, in North Carolina. The accounts from that quarter are not so 
favorable as I could wish. The want of money is equally the same there 
as here, the want of provisions is extremely great in the southern Army, 
even to that degree that they are without either Flesh or Bread, living on 
Vegetables we are endeavoring to fix on ways and means to make more 
Ample provisions for their support. I fear you will think I delight in 
informing you of only the gloomy side of our public affairs. I assure you 
I should be exceeding happy, if truth would justify a different language. 
The Enemy by best accounts are in full possession of South-Carolina, 
and Georgia, with a small part of No. Carolina, beyond Pedee River. 
Congress is endeavoring to put the Army under General Gates in a situa- 
tion to be able to confine them to the limits the Genl. shall fix. 

E Cornell. 

367. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office Augt. 8, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... We shall lay before Congress our Opinion of the Necessity of 
purchasing the Powder at Boston and when enabled to pay for it will 
chearfully direct the Purchase. We asked some time ago for a Sum of 
Money to purchase Powder, but Congress did not comply with our Re- 
quest.^ We will however make a second Application on the Subject.^ 
Great Expectations are formed on the Stores said to be on their Way 
from Europe and we hope there may not be proportionate Dissappoint- 
ments 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 8, 14, 15, and no. 383, post. Governor Greene's letter 
of July 22 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 296. Cf. no. 262, ante. 

3 See no. 363, note 5, ante, and nos. 2>76, 383, post. 
[367] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The application of the board, dated July 22, is in tlie Journals, July 24 ; see also 
ibid., July 25. On the same day that the application was made to Congress the board 
sent out a circular letter to some at least of the states, in an effort to borrow powder. 
A text of the letter to Governor Trumbull is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
ser., III. 82, and an identical letter is in Arch, of Md., XL\\ 21. See also the board to 
Governor Lee July 28 {ibid., p. 34), the Maryland council to the board July 29 {ibid., 
XLin. 242), and the board's reply, Aug. 9 {ibid., XLV. 45). 

3 The board made its application to Congress Aug. 10, in a letter dated Aug. 9, 
accompanied by a letter from Washington to the board Aug. 3. The matter was referred 
to the board of treasury, and, in accordance with the recommendation of that board 
Aug. 14, warrants were ordered issued for the purchase of powder. 



August, I/80 319 

We are extremely uneasy on the Score of Cloathing for the Troops. 
In Consequence of your Excellency's Letter of the 20th of June last com- 
plaining of the Want of Linnen we reported to Congress that twenty thou- 
sand Pounds Sterl in Bills of Exchange should be put in our Hands for 
the purpose of buying Linnen for shirts and Overalls. We obtained the 
Bills and immediately sent to our Agents to make the Purchases but have 
heard Nothing from them on the Subject.* .... 

368. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. August 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the Act of Congress of the 7th Instant herewith enclosed you will 
be informed, that General Washington is authorized to effectuate an Ex- 
change of Officers, Prisoners of War; and also of the Measures Congress 
are taking for the Subsistence and Comfort of Officers and Prisoners that 
may remain Prisoners with the Enemy in the United States. 

Also that you are authorized to take the necessary Steps for establish- 
ing a resident Commissary of Prisoners in South Carolina or Georgia to 
have the Care of Prisoners in those Places. 

You will further observe the Encouragements offered by Congress in 
this Act to Volunteer Horse Men in the States from Virginia to Georgia 
inclusive under your Command, and submitting to your Determination 
the Number to be raised in each of those States. From the representation 
we have received it is hoped a Sufficient Number equal to your Wishes 
may be engaged as Volunteers agreeable to the Terms mentioned in the 
Act. 

As a further aid to your military Chest, you will observe the Ballance 
of the Quota of ten Millions of Dollars required of Virginia by the Act 
of Congress of the 19 of May last is appropriated to the southern Depart- 
ment, and ordered when collected to be sent to you for that Purpose." 

369. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philada. August 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am sorry to inform your Excellency that it is not in the Power of 
Congress to comply with your request by sending any Ships of Force in to 
the Cheasapeake for the Protection of the Navigation there at this critical 
Juncture. 

I have no Doubt your request would have been complied with most 
chearfully had it been in the Power of Congress 

* See the Journals, June 23, July i. 
[368]iLibrar>^ of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 71; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates 
Papers, XVII. 

2 See no. 360, ante, and nos. 370, 377, 381, 408, post. 
[369]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 72; Arch, of Md., XLV. 45. 

25 



320 Continental Congress 

By the Act enclosed you will see that all the Continental Vessels of 
Force were preengaged in a most important Service before your Letter 
was received.' 

370. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates.^ 
^■^ Philadelphia August the loth, 1780. 

It was with a degree of deep concern, I heard yr. letter of the 20th 
ultimo, read in congress." however Sanguine the general Expectation 
might have been, and the assurances of success promising, there still re- 
mained the operation of circumstances to work the desired effect. The 
direction of these depended, not on the General, but on fortune, which in 
utter contempt of all human opinion. Ever was, and ever will be the great 
arbiter of human things 

We are now engaged in the matter of the Southern Supplies and fall- 
ing very fast from the project of the Siege of New york for this Season. 
I believe we shall turn a respectable force to the Southern operations the 
Ensuing winter 

371. John Mathews to the Medical Committee.^ 
Gentlemen, Head Quarters Orange Town Augt. 10, 1780. 

Doctor Cochran has applied to me, as one of the Committee, for some 
assistance with regard to surgeons with the Army. There are no more 
than four surgeons and one mate now with the flying hospital, which are 
barely sufficient to attend the Army. The men are daily growing more 
sickly and Hospitals must necessarily be established for their reception, 
so that either the sick in the hospitals or in the Army (in case of action) 
must suffer, if not speedily attended to. There are now in Philadelphia 
Doctors Binney, Smith, Glintworth, Duffield, and Jackson, who have no 
visable employment there, And ought consequently to be ordered by you 
to attend their duty in the Army, otherwise their Offices must be deemed 
mere sinecures. Doctor Cutting, who is the Apothocarry Genl., is also 
resident in Philadelphia, therefore a difficulty must arise in procuring the 
necessary supplies at such a distance from the Army. I would therefore 
submit to you, whether there would not be a propriety, in his establishing 
a magazine in some proper place in the State of New Jersey from whence 
supplies may be drawn with the greater facility, and whether there would 
not be also a propriety in his attendance at such place. There are likewise 
in the Northern Department Doctors Treat, Tilletson, Bartlet, Townsend, 

2 See the Journals, July 31, Aug. 7. Governor Lee's letter of July 28, which 
was addressed to the delegates of Maryland, is in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 238. The letter 
states that the request had been preferred as long ago as June 12, but that no response 
had been received. The letter of June 12 was read in Congress June 19 and referred 
to the board of admiralty. 

[370]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. IIL, p. 180 (original). 
2 Gates's letter was read in Congress Aug. 4. Cj. nos. 357, 360, ante. 

[371]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 263 (letter-book copy), 
no. 39, vol. L, f. 218 (draft). The copy (made by a clerk) differs from the draft chiefly 
in the expansion of abbreviations, such as " apothocarry " for " ap'y ", and " depart- 
ment " for " depmt ", etc. 



August, ij8o 321 

Young, and McCrea ; they can have Httle to do there at present. I am 
inform'd one is sufficient, then I would submit to you whether the rest 
ought not to be ordered to attend the Army. 

The delay in the determination of Doctor Shippens Tryale, causes great 
confusion in this department, as no one that I can learn, seems to take any 
directions about it, consequently every one does as he pleases. Had that 
matter been determined, you would have been saved the trouble of the 
present application. As the Army at present contains a great many re- 
cruits, and from the Marches they have lately made in such very severe 
weather, it must naturally be expected the sick will [be greatly]' in- 
creased. Therefore a considerable quantity of Stores will be indispensibly 
necessary, and ought to be forwarded without loss of time. 

I am Gentlemen With much respect and esteem 

Yr Most Obed. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews. 
To the Medical Committee in Congress ^ 

2)72. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia ii Augt. 1780. 
.... If I can procure the establishment of our remaining Limits by 
express bounds and under especial Guarantee of the United States my 
labour will not be in vain and I shall return home with great satisfaction. 
The Doctrine that our jurisdiction over Vermont is to be sacrifised for 
the publick Tranquility is pretty fully established. What happened in the 
Legislature at xMbany last winter preceeded us and it was ever expected 
that we came prepared to execute or surender. We were not however 
deterred from doing our duty agreeably to our express Instructions. We 
are endeavoring to avail ourselves of the advantages which may arise by 
the impressions which this Determination only Justified by the plea of 
necessity must create ^ . . . . 

2 The words " be greatly " are in the draft, but were left out in the copy. 

3 See no. 287, ante. The medical committee had brought in a report July 21 
concerning the needs of the hospital department (see no. 334, ante), and Aug. 7_ Con- 
gress had ordered the committee to report specifically upon the state of the military 
hospitals in Pennsylvania, essentially anticipating the object which Mathews had in 
view. Sept. 13 a report proposing a general system of regulations for the hospital depart- 
ment was brought in, further considered Sept. 22, 23, and 30, and finally framed and 
adopted on the latter date. Meanwhile, Sept. 24, Dr. Shippen, the director general, was 
ordered to make a return of the personnel of the department, which he did in a letter 
of the same date, presented to Congress Sept. 25. A report on this return was brought 
in Oct. 2, and the officers of the department were elected Oct. 6 and 7. Of interest in 
this connection is a letter from Washington to Mathews Sept. 9 {Writings, tA. Ford, 
VIII. 428, ed. Sparks, VII. 192), in which he recommends a number of physicians for 
appointment, for the reason, he remarks, that a hint had been given him " that the 
new arrangement might possibly be influenced by a spirit of party out of doors, which 
would not operate in their favor ". See no. 434, post. 

The doctors mentioned in Mathews' letter are: Daniel (?) Bartlett, Barnabas Binney, 
John Cochran, John Brown Cutting. Samuel Duffieldj George Glintworth, David Jack- 
son, Stephen McCrea, Isaac Smith, Thomas Tillotson, David Townshend, Malachi Treat, 
Joseph Young. The Dr. Bartlett referred to may have been John Bartlett of Rhode 
Island, but according to a report of the medical committee Mar. 19, 1781, he was not 
at this time actually in the service. 

[372]! N. Y Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll.. Livingston Papers, II. 249 (extract). 
2 There are some evident errors in this copy. 



322 Continental Congress 

373. The President of Congress to the Committee at 
Headquarters/ 

Philadelphia i\ugust 12, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

I have been honored with a Letter from the Honorable Mr. Mathews of 
the 7th Instant in which he mentions two of the Committee were neces- 
sarily absent. 

Congress have judged it unnecessary under present Circumstances that 
the Committee should continue longer at Head Quarters, and by their 
Act enclosed of the nth Instant have discharged them from further At- 
tendance there and ordered that they report their Proceedings to Congress.^ 

374. The President of Congress to the IMinister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada. August 12. 17S0. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of this 
Day, together with the Copy of an Ad of the 5. Instant respecting a Plan 
of Operation to be concerted for expelling the Enemy from South Caro- 
lina and Georgia 

You Sir will observe your Influence is desired in Aid of the Measure 
which may be adopted bv the Commander in Chief to carry the same into 
Effect 

375. The President of Congress to Alexander McDougal.^ 

Philada. August 13, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to lay before you the enclosed Act of Congress of 
the 12. Instant, by which you will be informed of their Proceedings on the 
Memorial from the General Officers 

[373]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. II., f. 127 (addressed to 
"The Hon'ble John Mathews and Nathl. Peabody Esqrs."), no. 11, p. 18 (letter-book 
copy) ; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 72>- 

2 Mathews's letter is dated Aug. 6 (no. 361, ante). See the Journals, Aug. ir, 
and nos. Z7^, 385, 385, 394, 400, 434, post. The copy of the resolution transmitted to the 
committee is endorsed, "Reed, the 21st Inst." This letter is endorsed, "Reed, the 21st 
Inst. No. 14 exam'd and ent'd ". Nov. 16 the committee presented to Congress, as a 
record of its proceedings, the committee's letter-book (Papers Coot. Cong., no. 11), 
embodying copies of the majority of the letters received and sent, the final document 
in the volume being a statement in defense of its course in those matters which had been 
the object of criticism on the part of Congress. The draft is in Schuyler's hand, but 
the letter-book copy, which is dated Nov. i, is signed only by Mathews and Peabody, 
as Schuyler was absent at the time the report was presented. See no. 424, post. 

The record of yeas and nays on this order of recall shows ten states in the affirma- 
tive, two (New York and South Carolina) in the negative, and one (Virginia) divided. 
New York was represented by John Morin Scott alone. Of the South Carolina dele- 
gates. Bee and Kinloch voted "no", Motte "aye". Of the Virginians, Madison 
voted " no ", Walker " aye ". Two of the votes are somewhat surprising. Peabody's 
colleague, Folsom, voted for the recall, and James Lovell, who seldom failed to mani- 
fest suspicion of " camp " or " camp doctrine ", voted " no ". 

[374] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 73. 

[375J1 Librarj' of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 74. 



Aligns t, I/80 323 

Some further IMatters were under Consideration for the Benefit of the 
General Officers their Widows and Children, which are recommitted and 
I trust will be speedily determined." 

376. EzEKiEL Cornell to Xathaxael Greene/ 

[August 13, 1780.] 
Dear bir, 

I had the honour, to receive your favour yesterday, of the 5th Instant, 
In my last, I mentioned that your letter was recommit'd, they reported 
the next day, In these words, " That General Greens refusal be accepted. 
That General Washington be informed, and directed, to appoint a 
O. M. G. That General Greene be acquainted that Congress have no 
farther service for him." That report' was taken up every day for a 
week, but nothing determined. At length it was agreed to postpone the 
report for the present. Congress then agreed to make choice of a Quar- 
termaster-general. Colonel Pickering was chosen, with the rank of Colonel 
and pay of Brigadier-general. There the matter rests at present, and I 
think will, unless some other evil spirit should get among us. 

I can assure you Mr. Sherman hath been your fast friend in the whole 
of this affair, as well as every member from that State. And among your 
friends you may reckon New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, 
and some members from some other States. Your enemies are, or pre- 
tend to be, exceeding sanguine in their expectations of Colonel Pickering's 
conducting the department with economy. I confess I more fear his want 
of ability than the want of economy. At the same time I wish him success. 

Before this will reach you it is more than probable you will hear that 
Congress have recalled their committee from head-quarters. The measure 
was become necessary for several reasons. Some States were dissatisfied, 
many members of Congress were displeased with the letters they wrote.^ 

The situation of our finances is such as to make every thinking man 
shudder. The new money ordered into circulation by the resolution of 
the 1 8th March meets with so many obstructions I almost despair of the 
credit it will have in the States that comply with the resolution. If that 
should fail, good God, what will be our fate, without money or credit 
at home or abroad? W^e have not one farthing of money in the treasury, 
and I know of no quarter from which we have a right to expect any. Yet 
we go on contented, pleasing ourselves with the sanguine hopes of reduc- 
ing New York. I have seen many new scenes before I came to this place. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 3, 12, 24, Sept. 9, and nos. 336, 355, 357, ante, nos. 
387, 421, post. 

[376]! Library of Congress, Nathanael Greene, Ac. 2827; Greene, Life of Nathanael 
Greene, II. 2^2> (extract). 

2 That is, the report on Greene's resignation. See ihid., p. 322 ; cf, nos. 350, 366, 
ante, and no. 383, post. Aug. 11 Greene wrote a circular letter to his deputies, explain- 
ing the reasons for his resignation and his declining to act longer, and closed the letter 
with this paragraph: 

" Notwithstanding you cannot act officially any longer. I hope you will continue to 
give every aid in your power to my successor ' till he shall have made his arrangements 
upon the new plan ; that the business of the Department may be kept in motion, and the 
operations of the Campaign go on." Library of Congress, Papers of John Davis. 

3 See no. 272, ante. 



324 Continental Congress 

But what I have experienced since, exceeds anything I have ever seen 
before. I never before saw a set of men that could quietly submit to every 
kind of difficulty that tended to the ruin of their country, without en- 
deavoring to make one effort to remove the obstruction. I believe they 
wish their country well, but suffer their time almost wholly to be taken up 
in business of no consequence.* 

S77. The President of Congress to Hor.\tio Gates. ^ 

Philadelphia x\ugust 14, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 12. In- 
stant, ordering General Moultrie to make Return of the Commissary of 
Prisoners that he shall appoint in Charles Town to you for your Appro- 
bation. 

You have also enclosed a Letter to General Moultrie with several Acts 
of Congress under a flying Seal. These Papers you will please to peruse, 
and forward to him as soon as may be. 

It is proper to inform you, that the Reason for directing General Moul- 
trie to appoint a Commissary of Prisoners in Charlestown, was because 
of a Stipulation at the Time of the Capitulation that the eldest Officer 
among the Prisoners should have that Priveledge granted by the Enemy. 
Of this we have received full Information.^ 

378. Roger Sherman(?) to Oliver Wolcott(?).^ 

[August 14. 1780.] 

A Comm'tee of five is appointed to make Estimates of the further Sup- 
plies that will be necessary for the present Year ending the first of next 
March, and for the ensuing Year, and the means of furnishing them ^ — 
and another to report the Salaries of the several Boards — Court of Ap- 
peals etc. 

Congress has resolved to pay the Army their wages and Subsistence 
in the new bills from and after the first Day of the present Month — to 
give each Major Genl. 1 100 Acres of Land, and each Brigadier 850 Acres 
at the Close of the War ^ Col. Pickering is appointed O. M. Genl. — The 
Com'tee at Head Quarters are discharged from further Attendance there 
and ordered to report their proceedings to Congress.* 

* Cf. no. 398, post. 
[377] ^N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVII.; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 76. 

2 See the Journals, July 26, Aug. 3, 5, 7, 12; also nos. 360, 368, 370, ante, and no. 
408, post. 

[378]^ Conn. Hist. Soc., Oliver Wolcott Papers, III. 118 (extract), endorsed at the 
top, " Extract of a letter dated Phila. Augst. 14th 1780". 

2 A committee on estimates and ways and means (Cornell, Sherman, Matlack, 
Houston, and Scott) was appointed Aug. 11. See nos. 402, 469, post. The committee 
on salaries was also appointed Aug. 11. See, further, the Journals, Aug. 22, 31, Sept. 12, 
13, 25, Oct. 14 (pp. 924, 930), Nov. 15. 

" See the Journals, Aug. 12, and no. 375, ante. 

^ See no. 272, ante. 



August, lySo 325 

Mr. Lawrence has embarked for Holland — no very particular Accts. 
from the Southward — I shall be willing to return home as soon as any 
Gentleman will come to relieve me.^ 

379. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett.^ 
^Y Philadelphia agust 14th, 1780. 

I Reed, your letter of the 13th of may the loth of June and should have 
answered it before now but I have several Reasons to offer by way of 
Excuse. 

one is I have bin alone ever since abought the 20th of april and have 
not bin absent one hour when Congress were setting since my arrival at 
this Place. 

the other is the wather base bin so hot that when out of Congress we 
have full imploymant to find air anough to breathe in. the last is you 
seemed to be angery at the Resolution of the i8th march relative to fi- 
nance, that I thought I wood let you Cool a little before I Rote again, 
when I left newhampshire the Exchange was abought twenty for one and 
on my arrival at this Place I found it Sixty and before the i8th of march 
it wase allmost an hundered for one on an average, and had it not bin for 
that Resolution of Congress which seemed to make you so uneasy by the 
midle of may it wood not have Purchest any one thing in the market, 
this is not my opinion only but allmost evry member of Congress, and as 
you Did not go so far as to say you thought the exchange as fixt was too 
high or too low, or that it aught or aught not to be fixt at all. Puts it out 
of my Power to give you Sattisfaction on this Subject. ■ 

I suppose you will expect I should say something about our Public af- 
fairs in general, as they appeair to us who are on the spot where informa- 
tion of every kind is most likely to be had. Much, very much my good 
friend, is Depending, in my opinion on this Camppaine. As the exertions 
of the several states are very grate, unless some important Blow is struck, 
or something Decissive is done. I am affraid of the effect it may have on 
the People at large, if Cal'd upon for the like exertions another year, and 
the disadvantages we may be laid under, if a negotiation for a Peace 
shoold take Place, is obvious. 

I can informe you, our General's spirits and expectations are Riseing, 
and allso that we expect every day to hear of the arrival of the 2d Divi- 
sion of Ships of War from France,^ on which Depends, in my opinion, 
all our offensive opperations. 

Yesterday I heard Coll. Peabody was unwell at Morristown. I shall 
set out for home on the 20th of September at the farthest, if I shood live 
so long, and am able, and shall expect somebody to Relieve me by that 
time, or the State will be unrepresented.* .... 

^ This statement suggests that the writer of the letter must have been Sherman. 
See no. 333, ante. The other Connecticut delegates were Samuel Huntington and Ben- 
jamin Huntington. 

[379] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Continental Congress, 1774, no. 340; Hist. 
Mag., VII. 52. 

2 Cj. no. Z7^, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 340, 363, 364, 367, ante, and no. 387, post. 
* See no. 362, ante. 



326 Continental Congress 

380. Elbridge Gerry to James Lovell/ 

Marblehead Aug 14 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

The Resolutions of Congress respecting the Payment of the Principal 
and Interest of Loan Office Certificates, appear to be founded in Justice, 
and to give general Satisfaction; but the Mode adopted for the Payment 
of other publick Debts, having no Regard to the Depreciation of the Cur- 
rency, is the Cause of great Complaints and much Uneasiness. Since the 
year 1776 Congress have not been able to Supply the Officers of the Stafif 
with the Sums required by them for making their purchases, and in Con- 
sequence thereof they have procured upon the publick Credit, Articles to 
a Considerable Amount, and issued v^hat they Call due Bills, vi^hich are 
Certificates specifying the Dates, Amounts, and other particulars of the 
Debts so Contracted, some of these Certificates were issued for Articles 
supplyed previous to the first of Sep 1777, and are order'd to be paid in 
Currency agree'e to the nominal Sum, which you must be sensible, sub- 
jects the Holders to a Loss of thirty nine fortieths of their property, and 
of the Improvement thereof from the Dates of the Purchases, this Loss 
is aggravated in the Minds of the Creditors, by Considering that they En- 
trusted the Publick at a Time when others, who were either attached to 
their own Interest or disaffected to the Cause, refused to part with their 
Property without prompt Payment, and that these have avoided the 
Losses which the first are Exposed to by their Zeal in the Cause of their 
Country, they further Complain that miany Officers of the Staff instead 
of making their Purchases at the Time of their receiving the Publick 
Mony, have employed their Friends to invest it in Articles of Merchandize 
and produce and have stored these L^ntill the Prices have been so Enhanced, 
as that by the Sale of one Quarter part thereof they have replaced the 
nominal Sum taken from the publick to purchase the same ; that the High- 
est Injustice has thus been done to the Publick, by the Depreciation of the 
Money, in the Hands of such Officers ; and that they are allowed to dis- 
charge themselves from the Sums which they have from Time to Time, 
received of Congress, without any Regard to the Dates of the Advances, 
and are thus permitted to make enormous Fortunes by fraudulent Meas- 
ures that merit the severest Censures. I must leave it with Congress and 
their Boards to determine, how far these Complaints are founded in Facts, 
but think no Time ought to be lost in doing Justice to the Individuals who 
generously confiding in Congress have intrusted them with Supplies.' I 
wish that this Measure may be adopted forth with, because it may serve 
to regain the Confidence of the Persons mentioned, many of whom being 
exceedingly hard [hit?] by the Proposalls of Payment are determined 
never to accept them. Indeed they know that some of the States have En- 
acted ; and presume that the others will soon enact Laws for the recovery 
of Debts agreeable to the Value of the Currency at the Time of their being 

[380] 1 Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison. of Harvard University 
(endorsed. "Extracts of a letter to Mr. Lovell Augt. 14 1780"). 

2 Gerry's complaint is similar to that of Governor Trumbull in his letter of 
June 8. See no. 333, ante. 



August, I/80 327 

Contracted, in which Case the Continental Officers will be subject to Suits 
as well as other Members of the Community. I wish that you would Com- 
municate this to our Colle[a]gues, and likewise to the Gentlemen from 
Connecticut whose Inhabitants have great Demands on the Publick; and 
submit it to your Consideration whether it will not also be proper to pass 
a Resolution that all Officers that are or may be Entrusted with publick 
Money, shall be allowed a proper Time for the Expenditure thereof, after 
which they shall be Credited for the Sums expended accord'g to the De- 
preciation thereof. 

pray Inform me in your next of the Rate of Exchange at Philadelphia, 
and receive the Interest of the Certificates issued previous to the ist Mar 
1778 in Bills of Exchange As you will perceive by the Resolutions of 
June last, that, the Payment of the Interest in Bills of Credit is less 
beneficial 

381. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia, August 15, 1780. 
Sir: 

Tho I can not procure the Signatures of the Com'tee of for'gn affairs 
at this moment nor the Resolves of Congress respecting Bills to be drawn 
on you for 100,000 Dollars passed 2 or 3 days ago, the Bills payable at 
90 days Sight, yet I should be blamable if I did not thus far notify you. 
The Breach upon our Taxes at the Southward by the possession which 
the Enemy have there, made this disagreeable Step necessary for the ex- 
press purpose of supporting Genl. Gates in that department." 

Notwithstanding the mention made in our journals long ago of giving 
you a secretary, no vote has lately been taken for the purpose. 

Mr. Laurens will be able, on any questions from you in corresponding, 
to give you whatever the Gazettes do not convey.^ 

[381]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XIX. 68 ("Duplicate"); Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. 271 ; Wharton, Reif. Dipt. Con:, IV. 32. 

2 The resolve that these bills be dravi'n was on Aug. 9. On Sept. 7 Lovell again 
wrote to Franklin, sending duplicates and triplicates of previous letters and acknowl- 
edging the receipt of Franklin's letter of May 31 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 742), 
in which he recurs to the trouble former bills have given him, and speaks of the com- 
plaints of people in Europe holding Continental money against the act of Congress fixing 
the value of forty for one. Franklin had not learned of that resolve. Lovell replies: "I 
think I can venture now to assure you that not a single draft more will be made upon 

you, let the occasion be ever so pressing You can not conceive of the whole train 

of necessities which led to such decisions after what you had written Nothing 

but the weight of taxes will put an end to the levity with which our currency is treated." 
Ibid., IV. 47. 

3 The duplicate in the Franklin Papers does not contain these last two paragraphs 
("Notwithstanding .... convey") ; but the P. S. (dated Aug. 22, not 27, as in Whar- 
ton) and the letter of Sept. 7 (no. 423, post) are appended. 

John Laurens was elected secretary to Franklin Sept. 29, 1779, but declined the office 
(see the Journals, Dec. 10, 1779). Dec. 17 other nominations were made, and Dec. 22 
a date (Monday, Dec. 27) was set for the election; but if anything was done in the 
matter the Journals fail to record it. See vol. IV. of these Letters, passim, especially 
Lovell to Henry Laurens, Dec. 15, 17, and Peabody to Laurens, Dec. 17 (nos. 684-686). 



328 Continental Congress 

I am, sir, your most humble servant, 

James Lovell, 
For the Committee of Foreign Affairs. 

P. S. Aug. 22, 1780. I now add the resolves. 

382. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia August 15th 1780. 
Sir, 

I had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter of the 25th ult. by 
yesterday's post. It gave me great pleasure as it in a great measure, enabled 
me to give Congress, the information they have often called on me for, 
and that from good Authority, and in such a manner as was perfectly 
agreeable to them, and you may rest assured the State, (tho small,) stand 
high in the opinion of Congress, which tend to make their delegate as 
happy as our distressed Situation will admit. He hath the vanity to think 
he has both the Confidence and respect of Congress as much as tho he 
represented a state much larger In my last I mentioned communi- 
cating your letter of the 22 ulto. to Congress and that it was refered to the 
Treasury Board upon receiving your letter of the 25th I pressed the 
Matter. Congress have this day come to a Resolution, directing the Presi- 
dent to send a letter to the States agreable to the form fixed by them. It 
is very polite and expressive of the highest satisfaction, in the Exertions 
the State hath at all times made in this Contest, promising payment for 
any sums the State may advance to the staff department It is but a cold 
way of advanceing money, but you may rest asured it was all Congress 
could do, and much more than they would do for som[e] states. All cir- 
cumstances Considered I hope the state will make themselves as easy as 
possible.^ .... 

Apr. 19, 1780, Thomas Pinckney of South Carolina was nominated (by Francis Kin- 
loch) for the post, but no further steps appear to have been taken until Oct. 25, when 
the appointment of a secretary to the embassy, who was also to be consul to France, 
was proposed in a committee report (see the Journals, p. 977 n.). See, further, nos. 405, 
539 (note 5), 547 (note 2), post. 

[382] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 39; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
P- 305- 

2 See no. 366, ante, and the Journals, Aug. 8, 14 (pp. 730, 731), and 15 (p. 73S). 
The report of the board of treasury (Aug. 14) on the letter of July 22 appears to have 
been too blunt for the sensibilities of the Rhode Island delegate, and the "very polite" 
letter was substituted. Governor Greene's letter of July 25 (see the Journals, Aug. 14) 
was addressed to Cornell. 

In a further paragraph Cornell speaks of the " exceedingly polite " letter which Con- 
gress had received from the Comte de Rochambeau (see the Journals, Aug. 12, 17), 
and of the " polite, unaffected easy manner of address, the kindness and abundance of 
good nature" of the French minister (Luzerne), and of "the ease and comfort every one 
enjoys, that has the honor to dine at his table, free from every kind of ceremony or 
formality, every one left to eat and drink as he pleaseth, stay as long as he pleaseth, 
and go away when he pleaseth ", 



August, 1780 329 

383. EzEKiEL Cornell to Nathanael Greene/ 

Philadelphia, August 15th, 1780. 
Dear S'r, 

I had the pleasure to receive your favour, of the 9th Instant yesterday. 
I am sensible of the difficultys the Army labour under, for want of proper 
supplys, in the Q. M. Genl. department. But I fear a greater difficulty, 
if possible is near at hand, I mean a general fast through the Army, and 
that for want of a Supply of provision. That matter is now under con- 
sideration of a Committee of which I am one, we meet this morning at 
eight o,clock, I fear the difficultys are of so stubbern a nature as to baffle 
all our efforts. They arise from a complication of Blunders, as well as 
unforeseen accidents. 

I think you have now nearly adopted the opinion, I was of, when at 
Moristown, concerning publick life. And the more I see of publick life 
the more I despise it. The Zeal I shew against adopting the New Plan 
for regulateing the Q. M. G. department, caused the Majority of Con- 
gress to treat me with great coolness for a considerable time. It hath now 
intirely subsided. I am now treated with the greatest politeness, and enjoy 
as great a share of their confidence, as I can expect; which leads me to 
believe they are sorry they have carryed the matter so far, but their pride 
will not permit them to retract. I can say no more than that it hath ap- 
peared to me from the first, that some thought it necessary to sacrifice 
one for the Salvation of the whole. But upon the whole it is my opinion 
some particular piques and prejudices excepted. Congress that is, every 
member, wish well to their Country. But there being so many members 
and so many different sentiments and to that may be added want of ability 
or general knowledge and inattention to business, that it cannot be won- 
dered at if difficulties arise in carrying on our publick affairs.' By the 
inclosed letter, you will be informed the Committee are recalled. It is 
there mentioned as a necessary measure. I believe it to be so, to keep har- 
mony among ourselves, some members were against their appointement, 
they have never failed to blow the Coals on all Occasions. The Committee 

[383] 1 William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers; Greene, Life of Greene, II. m 
(part). 

2 Cf. nos. 349, note 2, 350, 354, 355, 2(^3, 366, ante, and nos. 384, 394, 400, 434, Post. 

Pettit wrote to Greene Aug. 20: "The fever in a certain house is much abated, and 
I believe the rash step proposed in the beginning and revived with redoubled fury on 
the letters from the committee shortly after your letter of refusal came, is laid aside", 
adding that probably in time " some of them will see their own folly ", but that " cer- 
tain notions of dignity will prevent any direct acknowledgment of conviction" {Life 
of Greene, II. 334). Reed wrote Greene. Aug. 19 (to which Greene was replying in the 
letter quoted above), assuring him that the design of superseding him in command had 
never been seriously entertained by a great majority of Congress. " One hot mem- 
ber ", he remarks, " dropped it in a speech, another afterward moved it with some more 
formality; but it was scouted, and respect paid to your military character at the time 
that your freedom as a Quartermaster gave umbrage." Ibid. 



330 Continental Congress 

have at some times wrote plainly to us, and pressed our difficultyes close 
upon us, which is another matter many of us cannot bear, altho founded 
on the greatest truths, for my own part I see nothing to charge the Com- 
mitte[e] with in point of Conduct, some of their letters were in a stile 
rather warm but that I imputed to Schuylers Zeal and the warm Climate 
of Matthews Nativity.^ Congress were not so angry at the Memorial of 
the General officers as you imagined. We are not apt to be angry at any 
thing we can evade. The memorial wass Committed to five members of 
Congress to consider and report upon, which hath been done, but in such 
a manner, If I may be allowed to judge from the little knowledge I have 
of the sentiments of the Army As to give little or no satisfaction. These 
letters are wrote intirely in confidence. My Compliments if you please to 
Harry Knox and tell him there is a report that his Honour and yourself 
posses the Most uneasy disposition of any two general officers in the 
Army. Much hath been lately said about some letters that certain gentle- 
men wrote to Congress when they sett at York Town.* 



384. John Walker to George Weedon.^ 

Philadelphia, August 15, 1780. 
Dear General: 

.... The derangement of our finances, the resignation of the Quar- 
ter Master General, Shippen's trial etc. etc. perplex us beyond measure, 
yet I hope all will be well with us. Pickering is appointed Quarter Master 
General and much is expected from his diligence and fidelity 

When do you set out for the Southern Army ? I hope things will soon 
begin to wear a better face there. Our scheme is to take New York with 
the fleet and army there before winter sets in, and then to send you suffi- 
cient succor to the south 

^ Greene wrote to Joseph Reed August 29 : " This gentleman came to camp with all 
the prejudices imaginable about him respecting the Quartermaster's department, and he 
appeared to be afraid to make inquiry for fear of meeting conviction; but I be[lie]ve 
none of the com,mittee leave the army with more favorable sentiments respecting my 
conduct and the order and management of the business than he does. I believe him to 
be a well-meaning man, but a person of violent passions, great pride, and sudden preju- 
dices. Under the influence of such a temper he may take a wrong bias with very honest 
intentions. However, this much may be said with certainty, you are not to number him 
among your particular friends." Greene makes other remarks respecting Mathews' 
attitude toward Reed. Life of Greene, II. 337; Life of Reed, II. 241. See Reed's letter 
to Greene Aug. 19 (ibid., p. 240), to which Greene is replying. 

■* The allusion may be to certain letters from general officers which, in Decem- 
ber, 1777, Washington placed in the hands of the committee of conference for their 
information, and which the committee was ordered to lay on the table for the perusal 
of the members. See the Journals, Dec. 19, 1777, Jan. 16, 1778, and vol. III., no. 43. 

[384]^ Seventy-Six Society, Publications: Maryland Papers, p. 115 (addressed to 
Weedon at Fredericksburg). 



August, 1/80 331 

385. John Mathews to the President of Congress/ 

In committee of Congress, 

Camp, Tapan, August i6th, 1780. 
Sir, 

I inclose copy of a circular letter to the states, also copy of a letter from 
the commissary general to the committee, for the information of 
Congress.^ 

With all deference, I beg leave to approach that august body over which 
you preside, and if the subject should not be thought '" too important " 
and one of those that in the opinion of Congress " ought not to employ 
the time and attention '' of this committee, and our interference in which, 
will not have a tendency to retrench too much from the high prerogatives 
of that body,^ I would humbly submit to their consideration, a letter from 
Coll. Stewart, copy of which is inclosed. In consequence of a resolve of 
Congress, Coll. Stewart is intitled to the value of the horse, on an ap- 
praisement, but being a favorite horse of his, he would prefer having him 
returned, rather than the money.* 

I must beg the favour of your Excellency, to have the dispatches South- 
ward of Pensylvania forwarded to the respective States. 
I have the honor to be, with the highest respect 

Your Excellency's Most obedient servant, 

in behalf of the committee, 

Jno. Mathews 

[385]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 220, f. 219 (draft), 
no. II, p. 47 (letter-book copy). 

2 This letter and its enclosures were read in Congress Aug. 21. The circular 
letter is no. 386, post. Blaine's letter to the committee Aug. 15 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 
II. p. 325, copy) was similar in tone to that of Aug. 7 (see no. 365, note 2, ante, and no. 
386, note 2, post). 

3 Mathews evidently had his eye on certain expressions in the resolutions of 
Congress Aug. 2 (Journals, pp. 686, 687) reprimanding the committee for its action in 
two matters in particular. If Congress had not already dismissed the committee it would 
probably have done so on the receipt of this letter (cf. nos. 361, ^y^, 376, 383, ante, and 
nos. 394, 400, 434, post). In the summer and autumn of 1778 Mathews had spoken in 
severe terms of this same august body of which he was a member (see vol. III., nos. 
394, 534, 572), but then it was confidentially, in private ears. Such open sarcasm was 
unusual. 

* Col. Walter Stewart wrote to General Schuyler from Camp Totaway, July 17, 
enclosing a claim to a "grey horse" then in the corps commanded by Major Lee, and 
asking that the claim be laid before the committee, referring the committee to Colonels 
Harrison and Meade for information. The claim is set forth in a letter of the same date 
addressed to the committee. During the action at Monmouth he had given his horse to 
a servant to hold, and both were captured. The horse was sold on Long Island and was 
purchased by General Thompson, from whom the public procured him and put him into 
the corps commanded by Major Lee. Stewart insists that he has a right to the horse 
and hopes the committee will agree with him in opinion. The letter was merely read in 
Congress and no action taken upon it. 



332 Continental Congress 

386. The Committee at Headquarters to the Several States.^ 

(Circular) 

In Committee of Congress 

Camp Tapan Augt. 16, 1780. 
Sir, 

Inclosed you will receive copy of a letter of the 15th instant, from the 
commissary General." 

Circumstanced as our Army at present is, the information contained 
in this letter becomes truly alarming. It requires the utmost attention of 
the Ofificers together with all the necessaries, and even comforts of life, 
to render the service acceptable to recruits, and as the greatest part of the 
army, at present, consists of that class of men, If the time should unhap- 
pily arrive, when we will be reduced to the necessity of putting them on 
half allowance of provisions, or probably have none to give them, the con- 
sequence must be, that these men, unaccustomed to endure this species of 
distress, and not brought to that state of discipline, which can give their 
ofificers that control over them, they have acquired over the old soldiers, 
must revolt at the idea of tamely submitting to a service, when, divested as 
they are of every other privilege, the soldiers of all Armies are entitled to 
and are furnished with, they cannot receive even the means of subsistence. 
If reduced to the extremity I have just mentioned, and an irreconcilable 
disgust should once take place among these men, and desertions (or per- 
haps something worse) begun, the contagion will, beyond a doubt, per- 
vade the whole army. For it is not to be expected that the few old Sol- 
diers, now remaining, will be disposed to go on, enduring the calamities 
they have so often experienced, when they find others equally bound with 
themselves, and who have as yet had none of those difficulties to encoun- 
ter, manifesting so refractory a spirit, at what they will conceive to be 
trifles, compared with their own sufferings — should such an event take 
place, the train of ruinous consequences that will inevitably ensue, must at 
once strike you so obviously, as to render unnecessary my entering into 
a detail of them. We do, therefore earnestly request of you. Sir, that the 
officers of your state, appointed to procure and forward the supplies, may 
be called on, in the most urgent manner, to give their utmost attention to 
the important business of keeping the Army regularly supplied with your 
quota of the articles that has been assigned to your state, as you must 

[386]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed to Caesar Rodney; see Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1078, item 629; 
ibid., no. 1323, item 381, with erroneous date, Aug. 4) ; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 222 (copy to Congress), no. 39, vol. III., f. 57 (draft by 
Mathews), no. 11, p. 70 (letter-book copy): ibid.. Force Trans., Weare; Mass. Arch., 
CCIII. 33 ; Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 A 188 (to New Hampshire) ; Md. Hist. Soc.. 
LXXXVH. 190; N. J. State Lib.; A^. J. Rev. Corr.. p. 244; Clinton Papers, VL 108. 

2 Blaine's letter to the committee Aug. 15 is in Clinton Papers, VL no (see no. 
385, ante). A similar letter, dated Aug. 14, was sent to the states {R. I. State Recs., 
IX. 303; Clinton Papers, VI. 100; Arch, of Md., XLV. 47). It was transmitted (to 
Maryland at least) by the board of war, who close their letter with this observation, 
" The very existence of the Army depends upon the supplies by the States, all Continental 
purchases having long since ceased ". Ibid., p. 49. 



August, I/So 333 

plainly perceive what embarrassments the least remission on the part of 
the States, or any of them, must throw us into : for it must be remem- 
bered that the monthly supplies are no more, than what is barely neces- 
sary for the consumption of the Army, in that time. 

It is true, that the Army does not at present amount to the numbers on 
which the estimate was made, but as the men are daily coming in, we are 
to suppose that the complement of men will be made up by the end of this 
month. But at all events it is incumbent on us to be provided to answer 
the largest demands that can be made upon us. 

It is not only the immediate supply of the Army, that the committee 
would wish to call your attention to, but likewise the necessity there is 
of the greatest punctuality in furnishing the Supplies agreeable to the 
requisitions that have been heretofore made to prevent in future alarms 
of this nature, and our giving you further trouble on the subject.^ 

387. John Armstrong to William Irvine.^ 

Philada., 17th August, 1780. 
Dear General, 

.... My Health has been in jeopardy of late by excessive heat, busi- 
ness and confinement, in this city where many of late have made a sudden 
exit from the present world — but if my health is spared until the memo- 
rial of the General Officers is carried through," Mr. McClane being now 
come, I intend to retire, before which you will hear from me in a future 
letter. I begin to doubt whether the 2d Division of the F. Fleet will arrive 
in time,^ but still hope that this Campaign will not pass over without some 
happy event to these States and laurels to the arms of America. 

388. A Committee of Congress, Proposed Letter to the 

COMTE DE RoCHAMBEAU.^ 

[August 17, 1780.] 
The Committee to whom was referred the letter of the 3d inst: from 
le Compte de Rochambeau report the following answer to be given by the 
President : 

Sir, 

Congress have reed, with Satisfaction" your letter of the 3d inst: 
which, besides exhibiting the zeal of the troops under your command for 

8 This circular, as indicated by the letter-book copy, was signed by Mathews " in 
behalf of the Committee " and was addressed " To the States from New Hampshire to 
Virginia — (Pensylvania excepted)". The reply from Governor Greene of Rhode Island 
is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 308. Governor Jefferson's reply, Sept. 2 (also to 
the letter of Aug. 19, no. 392, post), is in Official Letters, II. 181. 
[387]! //uf. Mag., VIII. 17. 

2 See nos. 355, 357, 375, ante. 

' Cf. no. 379, ante. 
[388] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. 18, f. 319. 

2 The draft shows several verbal alterations, as here indicated. See note 8. The 
word " sincere ", originally written before " Satisfaction ", is erased. 



834 Continental Congress 

the service of their alHes, and the vigilance of their chief in providing 
agst. the enterprises of the Enemy, conveys fresh assurances from your 
illustrious sovereign of his benevolent views towards the United States; 
assurances which can not fail to make the deepest impression, because 
they are attended with the most solid proofs of their sincerity. 

If any difficulties have retarded a part of the succour generously des- 
tined to Co-operate in ^ the expulsion of the Enemy from these States, 
or have rendered the preparations on our * part less complete than was 
Intended.' We persuade ourselves *' that sufficient amends will be made 
by the vigor of the combined operations and by the mutual emulation that 
must be felt by the allied troops fighting side by side, in a cause so honor- 
able and with an object of such magnitude immediately before them. 
Under circumstances like these, any impediments that may arise from the 
strength or position of the enemy can have no other effect than to increase 
the Ardor ^ to overcome them. 

Should Genl. Clinton resume his projected attack on your armament 
Congress have the highest confidence that the adjacent militia will again 
evince their zealous attachment to their friends and brethren as well as 
that the latter will give equal proof that their intrepid valour which has so 
often displayed itself against the British arms in Europe is no less formid- 
able when opposed to her ambitious designs against this Country ; x\nd that 
the result will be a happy presage of a successful issue to the campaign : 
as this must be of a successful issue to the war. 

The Citizens of the United States and the French nation, already bound 
together by the ties of interest, of honor and the most solemn engage- 
ments, want nothing to perfect their coalition, but the endearing circum- 
tance of having mutually contributed to acquire for each other the glory 
of triumphing over a ruthless and powerful enemy to the rights of 
Mankind. 

With sentiments of the most perfect consideration and respect I have 
the honor to be your most obedient and very humble Servant, 

S. H. P't« 

3 The words " to Co-operate in " were substituted for " for ". 

* The first-personal possessive " our " was substituted for " their own ", 

5 " Intended " was substituted for " wished ". 

^ Again the third-personal possessive " themselves " gave place to the first. 

^ The original draft had, " inspire the inflexibility ", which was amended to 
read, " increase the Ardor ". 

8 The committee to whom Rochambeau's letter of Aug. 3 was referred, Aug. 12, 
consisted of James Madison, Samuel Adams, and James Lovell. This report, which the 
committee offered Aug. 17, was written by Madison, the few emendations being made by 
Adams. The proposed letter evidently did not meet the approval of Congress, and instead 
was adopted a simple resolution, which President Huntington transmitted to Rocham- 
beau, with a letter which did little more than paraphrase the resolution. See nos. 390, 
399. post. 



August, 1/80 335 

389. Thomas Bee to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Philadelphia 18 August 1780. 
D'r General, 

I wrote you last Week since which two Flaggs have arrived from 

Charles Town our Prisoners suffer very much and Congress have 

done nothing for them as yet. I hope by tomorrow to Effect something.^ 



390. The President of Congress to the Comte de Rochambeau.^ 

Philada. August 19, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the Honour to send you herewith enclosed an Act of Congress 
of the 17. Instant by which you will be informed, that they entertain a 
just Sense of the Vigilance and Prudence you have exercised, as also the 
Cornmander of the french Squadron Monsr. de Ternay, in taking the 
Precautions mentioned in your Letter of the 3. Instant, as well as your 
particular Attention to the Ease and Convenience of the Militia of these 
States. 

The Spirit, good Order and Discipline of the Troops under your Com- 
mand meets with the warmest Approbation of Congress. - 

391. Thomas McKean, Committee Report/ 

[August 19 ? 1780.] 
The Committee, to whom was referred the letter of the 19th instant 
from Richard Peters Esquire, humbly propose the following Resolves, 
vis. 

That the legislature of Pennsylvania be requested to exempt from all 
militia duty, and penalties incurred for neglect thereof, the Commission- 
ers of the boards of war, treasury and admiralty, and their respective 
Secretaries, the Commissioners of the navy and of the chambers of ac- 
counts, the Secretary of Congress, Treasurer of the United States, Trea- 
surer of loans, Post-Master General, Post-Masters and Post-riders ; their 
personal attendance on the business of their several employments being 
indispensibly necessary to the public service. 

[389]'^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr, Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 15 (letter of Rutledge), 17, 18, 19, 21 (pp. 752, 753), 
23, 24. 25, Sept. 23; also a letter from Rutledge to Washington Aug. 27, in Letters to 
Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 64. Bee's letter, some three pages in length, is principally- 
occupied with an account of news from Charleston, of prisoners and refugees, and of 
the campaign in the South. Lincoln was at this time in Massachusetts. Of two letters 
from him to Washington Aug. 11, one appears to have been written from Hingham, 
the other from Boston. 

[390]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 80. 

2 See no. 388, ante, and no. 399, post. Concerning the arrival of the French force 
under Rochambeau see, besides Washington's correspondence with Rochambeau, Lafay- 
ette, and Heath, Lafayette's letters to Luzerne in Am. Hist. Rev., XX. 364 et seq. A gen- 
eral account of Rochambeau's arrival is in Perkins, France in the American Revolution, 
pp. 300 et seq. See also Rochambeau to Vergennes July 16, in the appendix to Washing- 
ton's Writings (ed. Sparks), VIL 306. His letter to Congress Aug. 3 is printed in 
Doniol, Participation de la France, V. 352. 

[391]!^ Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 
26 



336 Continental Congress 

That in the mean time the President of Congress do give Furloughs to 
such of the officers and persons enumerated for two months, as are now 
called upon to serve in the militia of the said State, but that they be never- 
theless allowed by the United States as part of the quota of the militia of 
said State called into actual service.^ 

Your very humble Servant 

Tho. M: Kean. 

392. The Committee at Headquarters to the Several States.^ 

In Committee of Congress, 

Camp Tapan, Augt. 19th, 1780. 
Circular.^ 
Sir, 

When America stood alone against one of the most powerful nations 
of the earth, the spirit of liberty seemed to annimate her sons to the noblest 
exertions, and each man chearfully contributed his aid in support of her 
dearest rights. When the hand of tyranny seemed to bear its greatest 
weight on this devoted country, their virtue and perseverence appeared 
most conspicuous, and rose superior to every difficulty. If then, such 
patriotism manifested itself throughout all ranks, and orders of men 
among us, shall it be said at this day, this early day of our enfranchise- 
ment and independence, that America has grown tired of being free ? Let 
us. Sir, for a moment take a retrospective view of our then situation, and 
compare it with the present, and draw such deductions from the premises, 
as every reasonable man, or set of men, ought to do. In the early stage of 
this glorious revolution, we stood alone. We had neither Army, military 
Stores, money, or in short any of those means which were requisite to 
authorize a resistance. The undertaking was physically against us. But 
Americans abhorred the very Idea of slavery! Therefore, reposing the 
righteousness of their cause in the hands of the supreme disposer of all 
human events, they boldly ventured to defy the vengeance of a tyrant, and 
either preserve their freedom, inviolate to themselves and posterity, or 
perish in the attempt. This was the situation and temper of the people of 
this country, in the beginning of this controversy. At this day America 

2 The letter of Richard Peters was referred, Aug. 19, to McKean, Livingston, and 
Scott, but there is no record in the Journals of a report being made. See however the 
motion of Clark and Henry, Aug. 19. 

[392]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 11, p. 71, no. 39. vol. L, f. 288 
(copy sent to Congress), no. 39, vol. IIL. f. 61 (copy); Mass. Arch., CCIIL 37; Md. 
Hist. Soc, LXXXVH. 192; N. J. State Lib.; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 248; Mass. Hist. 
Soc, Collectiofts, seventh ser., HL in; Clinton Papers, VL 115. 

2 This circular, signed by Mathews " In behalf of the Committee ", was addressed 
"To The States from New Hampshire to Virginia — (Pennsylvania excepted)". A 
copy was transmitted to Congress with a brief letter of the same date (Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 39, vol. L, f. 227, f. 226, draft, no. 11, p. 47, letter-book copy), with which 
was also transmitted a copy of Washington's letter to the committee Aug. 17 {Writings, 
ed. Ford, VHL 383; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth sen, X. 194; Clinton Papers. VL 
112; A'^. J. Rev. Corr., p. 246). They were read in Congress Aug. 23. See also Wash- 
ington to the President of Congress .^ug. 20 {Writings, ed. Ford, VHL 386, ed. Sparks, 
VIL 156), and no. 404, post. 



August, lySo 337 

is in strict alliance with one of the first nations of the earth, for mag- 
[na]nimity, power, and wealth, and whose affairs are conducted by the 
ablest statesmen, with a prince at their head, who hath justly acquired 
the title of the protector of the rights of mankind. A respectable fleet and 
Army of our ally, are already arrived among us, and a considerable rein- 
forcement is hourly expected, which, when arrived, will give us a decided 
superiority in these seas; the whole to co-operate with the force of this 
Country, against the common enemy. Another powerful nation (Spain) 
though not immediately allied with us, yet in fighting her own, she is daily 
fighting the battles of America, from whence almost every advantage is 
derived to us, that could be produced in a state of alliance. An Army we 
now have in the field, part of whom are veterans, equal to any the oldest 
established nations can boast. Our Militia from a five years War, are 
become enured to Arms. You have at the head of your army a General, 
whose abilities as a soldier, and worth as a citizen, stand confessed even 
by the enemies of his country. Our officers of all ranks are fully equal 
to the duties of their respective stations. Military stores are within our 
reach. Our money though not so reputable as that of other nations, with 
proper attention, we have reason to expect, will shortly emerge from its 
present embarressed state, and become as useful as ever. 

Now, Sir, from a comparative view of our circumstances at the be- 
ginning, and at this day, how much more eligible, how much more pleas- 
ing and important must the latter appear, than the former, to every dis- 
passionate man? Then, shall we leave to future generations to say, shall 
we at present commit ourselves to the world to exclaim that, when Provi- 
dence had benignly put into our hands the most essential means of ob- 
taining by one decisive blow, the inestimable prize we had been contending 
for, it was lost, disgracefully lost ; for want of proper exertions on our 
part? That avarice, luxury, and disipation, had so enervated the boasted 
sons of American freedom, that rather than forego their present ease and 
wanton pleasures, they would tamely, cowardly submit to the loss of their 
Country and their liberty, and become those abject slaves, which their 
generous natures, but a few, very few years before, would have revolted 
at the bear Idea of ? 

These reflections arise, Sir, from the extraordinary backwardness of 
some States, and great deficiences of others, in sending the men into the 
field, that was required of them, near three months ago, and ought to have 
joined the Army fifty days past; and an apprehension that, from this tor- 
pitude, America has forgot she is contending for liberty, and independence, 
and the good intentions of our generous ally will be totally frustrated by 
our unpardonable remissness. Our former letters to the states have been 
full on this very important subject, and we are concerned to be driven to 
the necessity of reiteration ; but our duty to our country, our respect for 
the reputation of the Commander in Chief of our Army, impel us to it : 
For a knowledge of the force that has been required of the states for the 
Campaign, and which was allowed to be adequate to an important enter- 
prize, will induce a belief in our Countrymen, in the world, that it has been 
furnished, and they must stand amazed to see our Army inactive, and 



338 Continental Congress 

things not in that train for operation which ought, in such a case, to be 
expected especially at this advanced season of the year. 

Again — The force of our ally, now with us, and the shortly expected 
arrival of its second division, must clearly evince the utility of our Army's 
being put in a condition to undertake an enterprize which if successful, 
must give a deadly wound to our unrelenting and ambitious foe. But what 
apology can be made, if, when the Commander in Chief of our Army 
should be called on by the Commander of the forces of our generous ally, 
and informed, he is ready to undertake with him, whatever measures he 
shall think proper to point out, he shall be reduced to the cruel necessity 
of acknowledging his inability to engage in any enterprise that can possi- 
bly redound to the honor, or reputation of the arms of either nation? Sir, 
the reflection is too humiliating to be dwelt on, without the extremest 
pain — nay horror ! 

You must pardon us, worthy Sir, for the freedom with which we have 
now delivered our sentiments on this truly interesting subject. We flatter 
ourselves, great allowances will be made for our situation, when we daily 
have before our eyes specimens of that want of energy in conducting our 
affairs, which must shortly so far embarrass us as to render all future 
exertions inadequate to the attainment of those great purposes, at which 
we aim. America wants not resources; we have men (independent of 
those necessary for domestic purposes) more than sufficient to compose 
an Army capable of answering our most sanguine expectations : and our 
Country teems with provisions of every kind necessary to support them. 
It requires nothing more than a proper degree of energy to bring them 
forth, to make us a happy people. This we trust. Sir, the state over which 
you preside will show no reluctance in contributing her aid to, by taking 
such decisive measures as will, without loss of time, bring into the field 
the remainder of your quota of men, that have been required for the 
campaign. 

The articles of provisions, forage, and teams, are no less important 
than men ; but as the Committee had the honor of addressing you but a few 
days ago, on the subject of provisions, and the other articles, being so 
nearly allied with that, we will not intrude it on you, at this time. 

Inclosed is copy of a letter from the Commander in Chief of the 17th 
Instant to the Committee ; It will fully show you the state of the Army, at 
this time, and how great a deficiency of men there is, to what there ought 
to have been before this day. However we hope. Sir, it will be no discour- 
agement to your state, to using their utmost exertions for furnishing the 
remainder of their troops, to join the Army as soon as possible; and that 
the idea of its being probably too late, before a sufficient force can be 
collected to promise a successful Campaign, will be totally banished; for 
policy, as well as interest, dictate to us, to be always prepared to take ad- 
vantage of every favourable conjuncture, and it is impossible to say how 
soon such a one will present itself. 

The Generals letter treats this subject in every other respect so fully, 
as renders it unnecessary to add more. 



August, I/80 339 

393. EzEKiEL Cornell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philadelphia ii Augt. 1780. 
Dear General, 

.... Great preparations, both in raising men and furnishing supplies 
have been made, for the Reduction of N York. All further opperations 
against that object, at present depend on the Arival of the Reinforcement, 
that is hourly expected from f ranee, should a superiour Navel force arive 
in season, every circumstance will be as much in our favour, as we can 
expect if we take into Idea, the strength of a garrison strongly fortified 
and defended by a garrison of 15,000 Regular Troops, exclusive of 3 or 
4000 Irregulars. General Washington will not in my opinion, want for 
men or supplies, in case the operations, are onc[e] begun in earnest. Not- 
withstanding the great want of money, which hath much embarased our 
publick measures, and that difficulty is by no means removed. But by the 
smiles of Providence we enjoy the Blessing of a plentiful! Harvest, and 
all kinds of Provision necessary for the Army. 

Notwithstanding the aforegoing preparations. Congress have not been 
unmindfull of you and the Army under your Command, and many Reso- 
lutions have passed for supplying, and makeing the department as formid- 
able as possible, and among the rest, Bills for 100,000 dollars in Specie 
have been drawn on our Minister, at the Court of Varsalis, and ordered 
to be forwarded to Mr. Clay D P M G. to be by him sold to furnish the 
military chest under your directions. I will not take up your time, as it is 
more then probable, the Resolution will reach you before this letter." 

I cannot close this letter without observing that it would be much more 
agreable to me to be in the same station I had the Honour to hold [the] 
last Campaign, then the One I am now honoured [wi]th. Not only that 
I think I could do my cou[ntry] more real service, and have the honour 
of participateing with you in those difficultys that must inevitablely fall 
to your share, in the execution of your present important and critical Com- 
mand, But that I might be instrumental in rendering the completion of 
those Honours the more speedy, that will sooner or later fall to the share 
of those possesed of abilities Integrety and Military knowledge like yours 
and that gained by long experience. 

394. Whitmill Hill to Thomas Burke,^ 

Philadelphia August 20th 1780. 
D'r Mr. Burke, Sir: 

.... I observe what you say relative to the Supplies being called from 
Virginia, and the cause you suppose to be the occasion of such a Blunder 
(z'ic) the Committee at Camp; this Committee is at length dissolved, as 
experience convinced Congress that they daily engaged them in Quarrels 
with the Army, instead of correcting any of the Abuses they were in- 
tended to inspect ; they brought about the Resignation of Genl. Green as 

[393]^ N, Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, box 14. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 9, 15. 
[394]^ N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. State Recs., XV. 56. 



340 Continental Congress 

Q. M. Genl. which Resignation was accompanied with a disrespectful 
Letter to Congress, and was very near bringing about his total Dismis- 
sion. T. Pickering is appointed to fill his place, how the Department will 
be conducted in future we cannot say, but have been told by the Commit- 
tee at Camp that if Genl. Green was dismissed, our Army must imme- 
diately disband. Congress have for once had firmness enough to persist, 
what Evils may ensue we cannot tell ; as yet we have experienced no un- 
common one.^ .... 

395. Artemas Ward to the President of the Massachusetts 

Council( ?).^ 

Philadelphia August 21, 1780, 
Sir, 

.... I understand the Council are desirous to know whether Forrage 
supplyed the French Troops will be considered and carried to the credit 
of Massachusetts State. This matter has not been determined by Con- 
gress, but my private opinion is, that it will not, for that Quota of For- 
rage was laid on the State, for the use of the main army, without any 
regard to our Allies, by the Committee at Head Quarters. That Com- 
mittee is recalled and ordered to make a report to Congress. 
I am Sir with Respect and Esteem 

Your Obedient Humble Servant 
In haste 
Artemas Ward. 

396. The President of Congress to the President (Joseph Reed) 
AND THE Council of Pennsylvania.^ 

Philada. August 22, 1780. 
Sir, 

In your Letter of the 5th which was this Day read in Congress you are 
pleased to inform Congress, that, " On the first Day of June last an Act 
of Assembly passed adopting the Resolutions for calling in the Bills of 
Circulation and emitting new Bills on certain Funds, but with a sus- 
pending Clause of its Operation until a Majority of the States should 
pass Laws of a similar Nature : " that " an official Declaration from his 
Excellency the President of Congress or the Delegates of the State to the 
Supreme Executive Council, that a Majority of the States had passed 
Laws to the above Effect would immediately give Efficacy to the Law of 
this State " I am therefore now to inform you that a majority of the 
United States have passed Laws adopting the resolution of the 18. of 
March 1780 for calling in the Continental Bills in Circulation and emit- 
ting new Bills on certain Funds. ^ 

2 See nos. 361, 373, 376, 383, 385, ante, 400, 434, post. Burke's letters (June 18 and 
July i) to which Hill is replying have not been found. 

tSQSP Pierpont Morgan Library, Generals of the American Revolution, p. no. 
[396] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 86; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIIL 

517- 

- According to the Journals, Reed's letter of Aug. 5 was read Aug. 21. The let- 
ter, bearing the date July 30, is in Pa. Arch., first ser.. VIIL 458. See nos. 270, 314, ante. 



August, i/So 341 

397. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphia, August 22d, 1780. 
Sir, 

The inclosed papers contain the most recent inteUigence we have of a 
publick nature from abroad. The armed nutrality of so many powerful 
nations in Europe, together with the commotions in England, are by no 
means discouraging to these States. A letter from Mr. Jay, at the Spanish 
Court, dated at Madrid the 27th of May last, mentions that in conference 
with a Spanish Minister he reed, encouragement that the bills of Congress 
drawn on him to the amount of one hundred thousand pounds sterling 
would (with some difficulty) be honored, that they had also conferred on 
the subject of a treaty but come to no conclusion." Congress have recalled 
their Committee from Head Quarters, which will prevent any further 
correspondence with those gentlemen in that capacity. Majr. Genii. Green 
has resigned his office of Quarter Master General, and Col. Pickeran is 
appointed and in the execution of that trust. ^ 

All the States (excepting Delaware) as far southward as Virginia in- 
clusively have adopted the Resolutions of Congress of the i8th of March,* 
and will be furnished as fast as possible with their several quotas of the 
new bills, which are exceedingly wanted in every department. If every 
State would tax themselves to the extent of their abilities, relieving the 
poor as far as possible, we should find it the best resource in our power to 
obtain supplies and save the continent from that enthralment of debt 
which may be expected from loans. This doctrine (tho' trite) is no less 
important than true, and deserves the most serious attention. 

The current expences of the war are chiefly of our own services, pro- 
visions and manufactures, which do not much exceed our annual exports 
in time of peace. This alone is demonstration that our internal resources 
are nearly equal to our necessities and might, with proper management, 
be so applied as to prevent an innormous national debt to foreigners, who 
may hereafter claim the honor and merit of our whole salvation as due to 
them and surprize us with unexpected demands. 

At present we have but a small prospect of loans from Spain, and as 
Mr. Lawrens has lately sailed for Holland the success of his negotiations 
will not soon be known. 

[397]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, III. 117 (signed by Roger Sherman 
and Benjamin Huntington) ; Boutell, Life of Sherntan, p. 113 (extract). 

2 A brief letter from Jay to the committee of foreign affairs May 27 was read in 
Congress Aug. 16 (a briefer one to Lovell is of the same date), but the matter here 
referred to is in the letter of May 26, read in Congress Aug. 14. Two letters of May 
28 were also read Aug. 16, and one of May 30, Aug. 21. All these letters are in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 707-742. See nos. 398, 406, note 3, post. 

3 See nos. 363, 366, 373, 376, 383, ante. 

* See nos. 314, 331, 333, 396, ante, and no. 564, post. 



342 Continental Congress 

398. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia August 22nd 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... On the day of July last I obtained a warrant ■ on the Treas- 
ury, for 5,000 dollars, for which the state was to be accountable. As will 
appear by the Journals of Congress for that month, I have not been able 
to obtain one shilling of the grant, nor do I see the most distant prospect. 
I am intirely destitute of Cash, even sufficient to pay for one weeks wash- 
ing. Notwithstanding I have borrowed 2500 dollars of Colo. Pettit, which 
is now wanted. I am also in arear for my Board, and that is expected to 
be paid every week, and really wanted.^ .... 

By letter this day read in Congress from Head Quarters, there is neither 
Bread or Flesh on hand, sufficient to serve the Army two Days, to which 
let me add the state of the Treasury 

Since my last. Congress have receivd a letter from Mr. Jay, dated 
Madrid the 30th of May, by which it appears a difficulty is likely to arise 
in settling a Treaty with the Spanish Court. The King of Spain by his 
minister demands as one Article in the Treaty, the free, Intire and abso- 
lute Navigation of the River ]\Iissisippi which measure Congress will not 
willingly agree to.^ .... 

399. Samuel Adams to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (James Bowdoin).^ 

Phil. Aug. 22, 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The Count de Rochambeau, in a letter to Congress," speaks very 
highly of the attention of the Government of Massachusetts, and of the 
appearance of the numerous Militia so seasonably forwarded when an 
attack was expected at Rhode Island. And the ]Minister of France, who 
on every occasion expresses his great regards for that state, mentioned 
the same thing to its Delegates in the most flattering terms. It is a pity 
that a Militia always ready to turn out with a view of doing essential 
service, should be disappointed. They were so full of ardor that the Count 
was under a necessity of urging their return to their necessary affairs at 
home, with the promise of their being again called for, when Genl. Wash- 

[398]! R. i_ Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 27 \ Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 307. 

- The warrant was ordered July 29. 

3 Expatiating further upon his situation as regards his board bill Cornell ear- 
nestly entreats the interposition of the governor and the assembly. He had mentioned in 
former letters the exhausted state of the Continental treasury, but never " on an occasion 
in which I was so immediately interested as in the present ". 

* See no. 397, note 2, ante, and no. 406, note 3, post. 
[399V Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 201; Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, first ser., 
XII. 229. 

2 See nos. 388, 390, ante. 



August, 1/80 343 

ington should judge that the circumstances of affairs should require it. 
We are impatient for the arrival of the 2d division of the French Squad- 
ron, which we are informed by letters from Boston was spoke with near 
a month ago by a vessel bound to Salem. The season is advancing fast, 
and our troops must daily consume provision the bare transportation of 
which is an immense cost.^ I perceive that the General Assembly stands 
further prorogued to the 31st of this month. I am sorry that a state of 
our claim of territory in the New Hampshire Grant has not yet been for- 
warded to Congress ; for although it is my wish as an individual that this 
uncomfortable dispute may subside till a more convenient season, yet I 
would not willingly be under the necessity of saying, when called upon 
after so long notice, that our state is not ready. It might have the appear- 
ance of a consciousness in ourselves, that our claim is not well founded.* 



400. John Mathews to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Camp Tappen Augt. 23, 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

I last evening received an Order of Congress for dissolving our Com- 
mittee, and that we should immediately make a report of our proceedings 
to Congress.^ What they mean by making a report, I don't understand. 
In consequence of this mandate we quit Camp to day, and purpose halting 
at Morris Town for you untill the first of next month, in order, that we 
may settle some plan for our future conduct. I think from what I can 

understand of the complexion of things in C we stand on delicate 

ground, and that prudence dictates to us to be prepared to meet them, on 
whatever ground they please to take. I hope you will seriously think of 

returning to C for it is not in my power to stand bluf¥ to the whole 

Phalanx.^ I have a great deal to say to you, therefore hope I shall see you 
before I go for Philadelphia. 

I am My D'r Sir with sincere Esteem 

Y'r most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

^ See Washington to James Bowdoin, to General Heath, and to Congress, 
Aug. 28 (IVritings, ed. Ford, VIII. 412, 414, 416, ed. Sparks, VII. 174, 176, 178). 
Bowdoin's letter, Aug. 17, to which Washington was replying is in Letters to Wash- 
ington (ed. Sparks), III. 60. 

* See no. 253, note 2, ante, and no. 435, note 2, post. 
[400] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1462; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, 
no. 809 (copy). 

2 The letter of recall (no. 373, ante) is endorsed as received on the 21st. See 
also nos. 376, 383, 385, 394, 397, ante. A statement of the committee dated Nov. i is in the 
Journals, Nov. 16. In a letter to Congress Aug. 28 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 416, ed. 
Sparks, VII. 178) Washington gave high commendation to the committee. In this con- 
nection see a letter from Mrs. Reed to Joseph Reed, Aug. 22, and Reed's reply, Aug. 26. 
Life of Reed, II. 267, 246, respectively. 

3 See nos. 421, 434, 464, post. 



344 Continental Congress 

401. Robert R. Livingston to John Jay.^ 

Philadelphia, August 26, 1780. 
Dear John: 

I have received yours of the 23d May from Madrid, with dupHcates 
thereof, and the letters you wrote from Cadiz and Martinique 

I have not been able to procure at this place the key to the cipher that 
you directed me to, though I believe I have it at home ; besides that, it is 
very intricate and troublesome; I shall therefore be obliged to confine 
what I have to say to mere common occurrences. I enclose you a cipher 
which is very simple, and not to be deciphered while the key is concealed, 
as the same figure represents a variety of letters. In order that you may 
know whether it comes safely to hand, I have in this letter used the pre- 
caution mentioned in yours. 

Nothing astonishes me more than the confidence with which the British 
ministry and their dependants assert, that America sighs to return to their 
government, since the fact is that we never were more determined in op- 
position, nor if we except the derangement of our finances (which the 
loan of half a million would re-establish, if remitted in specie or mer- 
chandise), were we ever so capable of resistance. Our crops are uncom- 
monly fine, and the militia of every State north and east of Delaware, is 
armed, disciplined, and inured to the duties of a camp. The southern mili- 
tia are now at school, and I have no doubt will improve by the lessons 
they receive from the enemy 

402. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia August 28th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do myself the honour to inclose to your Excellency. Several late Acts 
of Congress, which I have been the more careful in doing, as I expect the 
Honourable the General Assembly will meet about the time this will reach 
you. I cannot help making some remarks on them ; especially the one which 
is for raising 3,000,000 of dollars by Tax; " it is of great importance to 
these states. If it can be raised by the time limited, it will give such relief 
as to enable Congress in some measure to fulfil their promises, and keep 
up some kind of credit, provided the New money, goes into circulation, 
pursuant to the resolution of the i8th of March, and Congress are imme- 
diately supplied with the four tenths. But the whole taken together, will 
be short of a sufficiency to discharge the public debts of the Current year. 
But when I consider the inhabitants groaning under the burden of the 
monthly Taxes already called for, and the other incidental charges that 
arise in the several states, to which may be added the reluctance with 
which the inhabitants, in some of the states pay their Taxes I almost 

[401] 1 Corr. ayid Pub. Papers of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 383; Jay, Life of Jay, II. 59; 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 43. 

[402]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 64; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 309. 

2 The resolve of Aug. 26. 



August, lySo 345 

despair of the 3,000,000 of dollars equal in value to silver and gold, being 
collected. And without that sum being raised. And the four tenths being 
punctually paid, I see no practicable means of ever keeping the Army- 
together for any Considerable time. And at present I see no other way of 
raising money then the aforementioned. At the same time my feelings are 
exceedingly hurt, when I reflect on the inability that I fear my constitu- 
ents in general labor under in making payment of all the public moneys 
and stores demanded of them. It is a popular opinion here, that the whole 
expense arising on these states for public useses \_sic'\ is practical and 
ought to be paid by public Taxes within the year. Which will amount to 
at least 15,000,000 of dollars of specie vallue upon the most economical 
plan. Borrowing money at present, is scarcely practicable, at home or 
abroad. A foreign loan cannot be expected unless a sufficient fund is 
raised, to pay the Annual Interest, at least, and appropriated to that use, 
by certain and fixed laws. The raising such a fund is now under the con- 
sideration of a Committee of Congress, appointed for that purpose, they 
have not reported, but have in contemplation to recommend to the several 
states to lay a duty of Two and a half pr. cent on all Exports, or one and 
a half on all Exports and imports. And a duty of two and a half on all 
prize goods to be appropriated towards the support of the Continental 
Navy.^ The resolution for liquidating the outstanding debts in the staff 
departments, I think must give some satisfaction to the Creditors, and is 
so just I apprehend it can give offence to none, especially where more 
than an equal proportion is due, as in the case in Rhode Island. But be 
that as it will ; necessity and policy obliged us, if we were poor to do some- 
thing that had the appearance of Honesty. The complaints of public 
creditors, were become exceeding loud, and it was intirely out of our 
power to make payment.* 

The Resolution impowering the Q M G and C G of purchase, to give 
certificates, I hope will give some relief in this time of General distress 
for want of money. But there is yet remaining many demands for Money 
of the greatest importance to the Operations of the present Campaign, 
that no possible means can yet be found to supply.^ .... 

3 Resolutions of this character were moved by Livingston and Folsom Aug. 22 
and referred to the committee on estimates and ways and means appointed Aug. 11. 
Livingston was then (Aug. 22) added to the committee. As stated in the P. S., Cornell 
was a member (chairman) of that committee. For a note concerning this measure, 
together with some account of the committee, see no. 469, note 6, post. Cf. the rejected 
motion of the North Carolina delegates (Burke and Jones) Mar. 18. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 26, and no. 333, note 2, ante. 

s See the Journals, Aug. 17, 23, 26. Respecting the settlement of these accounts 
under the act of August 26, Charles Pettit wrote to Col. Nehemiah Hubbard, late deputy 
quartermaster-general at Hartford, Nov. 18 : 

" General Greene having sometime since ceased to be Quarter Master General, the 
Authority of the Officers appointed under him has of course ceased as to every other 
purpose than settling and accounting for past transactions. It is therefore to be presumed 
that all your Contracts under General Greene are closed and that you will devote your 
whole time and attention, or as much as shall be necessary to effect a speedy settlement 
of your Accounts. To call for Cash to pay the debts you owe on public Account, would, 
at this Juncture of difficulty, be in vain: the present State of the public finances does 
not admit of a compliance with such a demand. At the same time it is necessary that 



346 Continental Congress 

P. S. I should not be so positive in the anual expense, had I not the 
honour to be one of the com'e appointed to make an estimate of the Ex- 
pense of the current year, which as soon as Completed I will endeavour 
to send you a Copy of. 

403. Thomas McKean to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed)/ 

Dear Sir, 

Yesterday morning I received your favor of Saturday by Mr. Sterett. 
Congress have for a month past been so distressed for want of money, 
that nothing but hope could have supported them under it, and that hope, 
to wit, remittances from the States Eastward of Virginia, (the others 
being reserved for the Southern army) has now failed them; almost all 
the taxes are swallowed up in discharging debts contracted in the Quarter 
Master's and Commissary's departments, and what little surplus remained, 
we are told by all the States, is employed in equipping and marching the 
militia on the present expedition. Had the whole been paid into the Trea- 
sury of the United States, it would have amounted but to a third part in 
value of the sum expected, the depreciation having trebled since the requi- 
sition made of the several States. You now see our situation : all the re- 
source we have is the new money; if that should not freely circulate, or 
should it speedily depreciate, we shall be at our wits' end ; however recent 
steps have been taken to give it vigor.' I fear we shall at last be compelled 
to have recourse to the Tories, for one of Charles the ist's Benevolences. 
In short, we seem to be all very grave, and the General's late letters are 
much more so than usual : however, si male nunc, et olim non erit.^ Let 
us but make prisoners of the British army at New-York, and all will be 
soon well 

Philadelphia, August 29th, 1780.* 

Congress should be informed as minutely as possible of the debts due from the United 
States in order to make due provision for the payment of them." Copied from the 
original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 
[403]! N. Y. Hist. Soc., MSS. of Joseph Reed; Life of Reed, II. 249. 

- See the Journals, Aug. 26. Cf. Reed's letter to McKean, Aug. 25 (Life of 
Reed, II. 245), to which this is a reply. 

3 " Non si male nunc et olim sic erit." Horace, Carni. ii. 10. 17. 

■* On this day was read the following letter, dated Aug. 25, from Joseph Hiltz- 
heimer, keeper of the Continental stables, to the President of Congress : 

" 5"!V, I Take the Liberty to inform your Excellency that I have had the care of 
Horses belonging to Members of Congress above two years for which have had no Com- 
pensation and only find by the Resolutions of Congress of the 13th Octo'r 1779 and 16 
of Febr. 1780 that I shall have the Direction of the Forage for their Horses. 

" I therefore Lay my case before your Excel'y that Congress may annex a Salary or 
Make such other allowances for my Services as they may Judge Adequate" (Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XII., f. 97). See the Journals, Aug. 29, Sept. i, and cf. nos. 64, 
note 2, 176, note 2, ante, and no. 468, note 2, post. 



August, I/80 347 

404. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, August 29th, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

Since the inclosed letter of the 27th Instant,^ several matters of Impor- 
tance, have been laid before Congress, which I think it my duty to acquaint 
your Excellency of. 

Firstly a long letter from General Washington, giving a summary ac- 
count of the Complaints of the Army, truly great if not alarming stating 
to Congress the alDSolute necessity of giving relief. Also the ill policy of 
Bringing men into the Field for short periods ; together with many more 
difficultys, too tedious to trouble your Excellency with.^ Also the pro- 
ceedings of the Committee from the N. England States, which I make no 
doubt your Excellency hath received a Coppy of, before this will reach 
you. All which hath been refered to a Committee, that was before Ap- 
pointed to make an Estimate of the expence of the current and ensuing 
years, and to provide ways and means for furnishing the necessary sup- 
plies. It appears at present that Congress are determined to recommend 
spirited Measures to the several states which I hope they will adopt, that 
we may no longer lull ourselves to sleep by a false hope of a peace, or ruin 
our selves by frequent alterations [of] Our Systems in the great Depart- 
ments which our army now feel the efects of in a severe manner I should 
have been exceedingly happy to know the Sentiments of the Hon'le Gen- 
eral Assembly on the proceedings of the Committee of the New England 
states, the more so, as it appears Govr. Bradford was not present.* Many 
and perplexing are the difficultys that attend the Measures undertaken by 
Congress. But this I can assure your Excellency, that I never had the 
honour to be acquainted with any sett of men whatever, in which party 
made so little appearance, as in the present Congress : and nothing appears 
at present to be their wish but the publick good. 

[404] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 67; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong.. 
p. 310. 

2 No doubt the letter of Aug. 28, no. 402, ante. 

3 This was Washington's letter of Aug. 20 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 386), read 
in Congress Aug. 28. Cf. his letter to Governor Trumbull Aug. 22, his circular to the 
states Aug. 27, and his letter to Congress Aug. 28 {ibid., pp. 405, 410, 416). The letters 
to Congress are also in Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 156, 178; the letter to Trumbull is in 
Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, fifth sen, X. 197. The circular letter is ibid., p. 198 ; 
Pa. Arch., first sen, yill. 525; N.H. State Papers, VIII. 870; A'. /. Rex: Corr., p. 256; 
R. I. States Recs., IX. 217. Washington's letter of Aug. 20 was referred to a committee 
of five (Samuel Adams, Joseph Jones, McKean, Scott, and Cornell). To the same com- 
mittee were referred (Aug. 29, Sept. 4, ir, 12, respectively) a letter of Governor Trum- 
bull of Aug. 21 (see note 4, below), Washington's letter of Aug. 28, one of Sept. 6 
(Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 421, ed. Sparks, VII. 184), and another of Sept. 8 (ibid., 
VIII. 425, and VII. 189, respectively). Sept. 12 Willie Jones and Sullivan were added 
to the committee. Sept. 14 the committee brought in a report, and Sept. 15 some meas- 
ures were adopted. Further references were made to the committee Sept. 16 and 
18, and a further report was offered Sept. 19, considered the following day, and some 
resolutions adopted Sept. 21. The final result of more than five weeks of discussion 
was the adoption, Oct. 3, of a series of definite resolutions respecting the constitution of 
the army. See no. 392, ante, and nos. 422, 434, 435, 440, 479, post. 

* The proceedings of the New England committee were brought before Congress 
Aug. 29, through a letter of Governor Trumbull of Aug. 21. 



348 Continental Congress 

Yesterday a Letter from Gov. Trumbull was read in Congress, accom- 
panied with letters and petitions to him from the Inhabitants of New Lon- 
don Groton and Stonington, complaining of the proceedings of Dr. 
Howell, in bringing Goods from Long Island to Pawcatuck river suppos- 
ing the Protection signed by the President of Congress was illegal, or a 
forgery. But for the present, let it suffice for me to say, the Protection 
was legally obtained in Congress upon a representation that he was a 
Friend to these States, and that it was the interest and ought to be the 
policy of these States to introduce all such people and their property into 
them as Power and Dominion consists in the number and wealth of the 
inhabitants.^ .... 

405. The Board of War to Horatio Gates. ^ 

War Office Augt. 29th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Congress having been pleased to direct that Lt. Colo. Laurens should 
be exchanged as soon as possible, the Board request, if you should be so 
fortunate as to take any officers prisoners in your department, that you 
will propose to the Enemy his exchange, agreable to the resolution of 
Congress which is herewith inclosed : * 
I have the honor to be 

Yr. Most Obedt. Servt. 
by ord. Will'm Grayson. 

406. John Armstrong to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philada. 30th August 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Having been two or three days in the Country, I cou'd not sooner ac- 
knowledge the receit of your favour from Trentown, but hope Mr. Henry 
has sent you the Resolution of Congress on the Subject of which you 
wrote, which if not done shall be inclosed. Mr. Henry and myself first 
formed and agree'd in the Resolution, the utillity whereof at this crisis 
so easily gained the attention of Congress that it passed with little debate, 
and will we hope on all hands be acceptable. I need not enter into the 
principles whether of policy or of justice, wherein it is founded, as these 
must naturally occur to every dispassionate reader acquainted with our 
situation.' .... There is a Capital Question respecting our Western ex- 
tent and free Navigation on the Mississippi suddenly to come on, in answer 

5 See nos. 409-412, post. 
[405] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 182 (original). 

2 The order to the board respecting the exchange of Col. John Laurens was 
adopted July 10. See no. 381, note 3, ante. 

l4o6]i N. Y. Hist. Soc., MSS. of Joseph Reed, VI. 

2 The resolution alluded to is probably that of Aug. 25 respecting the relative 
rank of governors in the field. See no. 414, post. 



August, I -/So 349 

to a late letter from Mr. Jay.' if this were discussed, I hope to be at full lib- 
erty to retire, especially as Mr. McClane now attends, three good mem- 
bers at once in the House is sufficient 

407. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada. August 31, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to acquaint you that in Order to furnish a sufficient 
Army to take the Field this Campaign Congress have been under the dis- 
agreeable Necessity to draw Bills of Exchange upon Doctor Franklin to 
the Amount of [blank'] Dollars, and in order that you may become fully 
acquainted with their Proceedings on that Subject I am directed to lay 
before you the Copies of the Resolves of Congress herewith enclosed. A 
Committee of Congress will also have the Honor to wait upon you with a 
more particular and full Explanation on the same Subject.^ 

408. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia August 31, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have this Day received from General Gates Despatches, containing 
the disagreeable Intelligence of the total Defeat of the Army under his 
Command ; Copies of which are enclosed. A most unhappy Event, and 
unexpected immediately after the Intelligence we had just received of the 
several Advantages gained by our Troops in that quarter. Wo. have no 
particular Account of the Numbers killed or taken. Report saith that 
Generals Smallwood and Gist and Colonel Armand are among the slain, 
and that Baron de Kalb is wounded and a Prisoner, ^^'e wish for more 
particular Intelligence than General Gates's Letter before it is published 
by Authority.^ 

3 This was Jay's letter of May 26, read in Congress Aug. 14 and referred to the 
committee of foreign affairs, an extract of which was laid before Congress by that com- 
mittee Aug. 21 (see nos. 307, 398, ante). This extract, evidently that pertaining to the 
navigation of the Mississippi (see Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 724-726), was referred 
to a committee (Joseph Jones, Walton, and McKean), and on the following day two 
instructions from Virginia were laid before Congress by the delegates of that state and 
referred to the same committee. The Virginia instructions were dated Nov. 5, I779. and 
July 13, 1780. The first is in the Library of Congress, U. S. R., the second in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 71, vol. I., f. 391. The committee brought in a report Sept. 2, which was 
adopted Oct. 4, and a committee (Madison, Sullivan, and Duane) was appointed Oct. 6, 
to draft a letter to Jay to accompany the resolutions. The latter committee brought in 
a letter, drawn by Madison, Oct. 16, which was adopted Oct. 17. See, further, the 
Journals, Nov. 18 (propositions of the Georgia delegates), Dec. 5, 8; also nos. 469, 480, 
494. 519, post. For earlier proceedings respecting the navigation of the Mississippi see 
the Journals, 1779: Feb. 23, Mar. 17, 24, Aug. 5, Sept. 10, 11, 17, Oct. 13; 1780: Jan. 31; 
also vol. IV. of these Letters (index, Mississippi River). 
[407] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 88. 

2 See Luzerne to Congress, Sept. i (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 44). 
[408] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; President's Letter-Book, p. 88. 

2 See also Gates to Washington Aug. 30, Sept. 3 {Letters to Washington, ed. 
Sparks, III. 66, 74) ; and Jefferson to Washington Sept. 3 (ibid., p. 72, : Writings, ed. Ford. 
II. 331), to the President of Congress Sept. 3, 6 {ibid., pp. 334, 2>2>6), to Gen. Edward 
Stevens Sept. 3 {ibid., p. 333), to General Gates Sept. 3 {Official Letters, II. 186). 
The three letters of Jefferson first mentioned are ibid., pp. 182-191. 



350 Continental Congress 

409. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philada. September i, i78[o.] 
Sir, 

I am honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 21. Ulto with the 
several Despatches to which it refers respecting George Howell and am 
ordered to explain the Circumstances of his Application and the Passport 
granted to him in Consequence thereof ^ 

Enclosed you have a Copy of his Memorial to Congress, upon which he 
produced satisfactory Evidence that he had never in any Instance acted 
an inimical Part against the United States, that he but lately came of Age 
to act for himself being not 22 Years old and had in Confidence revealed 
to some of his Friends who had been incog on to the Island by Permission 
that he was determined to remove from thence (now he was of Age to act 
for himself) and risk his Life and Fortune with the Independance of 
these United States. By a fortunate Ticket in a Lottery in England he 
had drawn about three thousand Pounds Sterling and as he could not 
obtain the Money had determined to invest it in Goods and leave the 
Island if he could obtain Permission. This Representation being made 
by Persons of undoubted Character who had personal Knowledge of the 
Facts Congress were satisfied of the sincerity of his Profession and sup- 
posed his Case to come within the Rule which had been uniformly adopted 
and ordered the President to grant him a Passport and Protection which 
was accordingly given. 

The Form of the Passport is the same as had been uniformly adopted, 
and it did not occur to Congress that it would ever be construed as man- 
datory, Commanding all Governors etc. but merely as a Protection on the 
Seas, pledging the Faith of the United States against Captures at Sea, 
and giving Notice thereof to all proper Officers — BE IT KNOWN etc. 
The same Form hath been repeatedly used in giving Passport to Vessels 
and Effects coming from the British Dominions in Europe and the West 
Indies, and in those Cases the same Diction extended to all Officers, Gov- 
ernors, Generals, Admirals etc. acting under the Crown of France or 
Spain etc.^ 

Wherever Mr. Howell landed his Efifects, he must obtain the Appro- 
bation and Protection of the State, and be subject to the Laws of such 
State. If he be an Enemy to his Country and has abused his Passport to 
cover Effects which were not his own Property he ought to forfeit the 
Whole, but if he hath been sincere in his Representation and upright in 
his Conduct, and means to risk his Life and Fortune with the Indepen- 

[409] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 90; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions, seventh ser., IIL 124. 

2 Howell's memorial was read and his prayer granted July 7. Governor Trum- 
bull's letter of protest was read Aug. 28 and referred to a committee, who reported 
Aug. 31. In Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III., are numerous letters pertaining 
to the case. Howell's memorial is ibid., p. 126. See no. 404, ante, and nos. 410-412, post. 

2 It was doubtless the trouble that arose in this case that induced Congress to 
make shortly afterward an alteration in the phraseology of passports. See the report 
on the petition of Cumberland Dugan, Sept. 23 and 29. 



September, 1780 351 

dance of these United States he will probably be approved and accepted 
in the State where he shall reside. The Propriety of a full Examination 
into the Circumstances of this Case is obvious and will doubtless be made 
by the proper Authority 

The Practice of admitting proper Characters to remove from under the 
British Government with their Effects and unite with us was adopted upon 
mature Deliberation, as founded not only in Principles of Justice and 
Humanity but Policy. The Instances have been frequent and tho' Con- 
gress are very jealous and cautious not to admit an Enemy or be deceived 
by an Impostor, and if Howell on Examination be found such it will be 
the first Instance I have known or heard of. 

Your Excellency will recollect the Resolution of Congress in Favour 
of Persons with their Effects coming from Ireland to settle in these 
United States exempting them from Capture which hath ever been in 
Force from the Commencement of Captures by Sea, and the Case of an 
Inhabitant of these United States who hath the Misfortune to fall under 
the Power of the Enemy within their Lines is a much stronger Case in 
Favour of the Subject if he be a Friend to his Country and hath Oppor- 
tunity to escape with his Effects * 

The Case of Mr. Howell will depend upon the Character and Conduct 
of the Man, but the Principles upon which Congress acted are the same 
by which they have been uniformly governed in repeated Instances ever 
since the Declaration of Independance 

410, The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Sepr. i, 1780. 
Sir, 

We were honored with your Excellency's letter of the 21 August. The 
enclosed papers contain the best intelligence we have from the southward ; 
our affairs there appeared prosperous, our army gaining strength, and in 
several instances considerable advantages against the enemy, until the 
battle near Camden on the 20th day of last month; they were overpow- 
ered by a superior force and met with a total defeat. This loss will not be 
easily retrieved ; the Southern States seem disposed to make as vigorous 
exertions as their circumstances will admit. 

The fluctuating state of our money, and the want of sufficient supplies 
of it, have been the principal causes of the wants of the army. When the 
States were called on for their monthly quotas of 15 millions of dollars 
the estimates were made at the rate of twenty for one; but before the 
taxes were collected the prices of supplies were at 60 for i, which made a 

* The resolution as adopted Mar. 19, 1776 (in the Journals, Mar. 23, preceded 
by the declaration adopted that day) does not specifically mention inhabitants of Ire- 
land as exempt from capture, but does exempt persons coming as settlers, together with 
their effects. It appears however from the Diary of Richard Smith, Mar. 18, that the 
committee of the whole did adopt such a specific exemption ; cj. the Diary for Mar. 13 
(vol. I., nos. 548, 562). 

[410]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 119. The letter is signed by 
Roger Sherman and Benjamin Huntington. 

27 



352 Continental Congress 

deficiency of two thirds of the estimates. When the States were applied to 
to furnish their quotas of provisions it was expected that the legislatures 
would only appoint commissaries to purchase them, and that the Quarter 
Master's department would have been so regulated as to have received the 
provisions from the State commissaries into proper magazines, and have 
transported them to the army. This regulation was delayed about four 
months by referring it to the Committee sent to head-quarters, who, in- 
stead of compleating it immediately, applied to the executive powers of 
the States to do the business proper for Quarter Masters, etc. Congress 
have appointed a Committee to make estimates for the current year up to 
the I March next, and also for the next year, who have made considerable 
progress in the business. Congress have also made provision for making 
good the depreciation to creditors who have furnished supplies, founded 
on your Excellency's letter of the 8th June last," a tax is also recom- 
mended to raise money for the payment of the public debts to the amount 
of three millions of dollars; this tax is likewise intended as a means of 
introducing the new bills into circulation in full credit. 

The proceedings of the Commissioners from the several States con- 
vened at Boston were read and referred to the Committee of Ways and 
Means. We are pleased to find their sentiments correspond with the meas- 
ures that have been lately adopted by Congress. 

The affair of the protection granted to George Howel we apprehend is 
not rightly understood by those who complain of it. Dr. Howel was 
represented to Congress as a person who was a minor when the enemy 
came to Long Island, that he is now under twenty two years of age, lived 
with his father, and had taken no part in the present controversy, but was 
well affected to this country, and was determined if possible to get from 
under the power of the enemy, with all his effects, and settle in some one 
of the United States. These things were not only said by himself, but 
confirmed by Doctr. Wm. Smith, late of Long Island, who has been for 
some years a surgeon in the Continental hospital, and served with fidelity 
and reputation. Your Excellency, we believe, has some knowledge of him, 
both he and Dr. Howell are well known to Col. Floyd. It was well known 
to Congress that his effects were chiefly English goods which he had ob- 
tained by drawing a prize in the British State Lottery. 

There was nothing mandatory in the protection granted by Congress, 
or that interfered with the laws or government of any State, but it was 
a notification that Congress approved of his coming off from Long Island 
with his effects, and a protection against capture by cruisers under com- 
missions from the United States. There is a general resolution of Con- 
gress, that persons coming from Great Britain or Ireland with their effects 
to settle in these States shall be exempted from capture, and a protection 
was lately granted to Doctr. Shields and some other gentlemen from 
Ireland to bring their effects to this city. And does not justice, as well as 
policy, require that citizens of any of the United States, should be pro- 

2 See no. 333, ante. 



September, I/80 353 

tected in coming with their property from under the power of the enemy, 
who have not forfeited that right by any crime against their country? 

If this person has been guiUy of any fraud by covering iUicit trade 
under his protection, we wish he may be detected and suffer; but we have 
no suspicions of that kind, but believe he has an honest bona fide intention 
to get and keep clear of the enemy.^ 

The several resolutions which concern the States, will be forwarded to 
your Excellency by the President. 

411. The President of Congress to George Howell.^ 

Philada. September 2, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have received your Letter of the 23. Ulto, as also the Letter you men- 
tion from Genl Vernon [Varnum]. 

It was supposed you would have obtained Permission and Approbation 
from the Governor of the State where you intended to remove with your 
Effects previous to your removing them which would have prevented all 
Difficulty, as the Design and Effect of the Passport and Protection from 
Congress was to protect you from Capture at Sea, but not to force any 
State to receive you against her Will, and a previous Permission from 
the State would have prevented all unjust Suspicion and the Trouble you 
have met with 

If you have been sincere and upright in your Profession and not abused 
the Protection received from Congress you will be justified, otherwise not. 
You can satisfy the proper Authority in the State of Rhode Island if true 
upon Examination, that the Representation in your Petition was just, and 
that you have not abused the Protection granted you, which is all that is 
necessary I should suppose 

I have wrote fully upon this Subject to his Excellency Governor Trum- 
bull explaining the Matter by Order of Congress." 

412. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia September 2nd, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote your Excellency very fully and by the last Post, little expecting 
to write you again so soon, but the importance of the inteligence received 
in Congress the 31st Ulto. lays me under an obligation of giving you a 
most disagreeable narative of Our situation in the Carolinas. 

I will not say that General Gates hath had a general Action. But that 
he hath suffered a General and total defeat is certain by his letter dated 
Hilsborough Xorth Carolina August the 20th 1780. It is imperfect and 
I have no liberty to take a coppy of it. But I do my self the honour to 

^ See nos. 404. 409, ante, and nos. 411, 412, post. 
[411] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 92. 

2 See no. 409, ante. 
[412]! From the collection of Mr. William D. Ely, of Providence. 



354 Continental Congress 

inclose a coppy of one from Mr. Burk a Member of Congress for N. Caro- 
lina who went home since I came, to which I beg liberty to refer you for 
particulars therein contained, And leave further particulars to be digested 
by time.^ 

I am this day informed that the Militia of this state are on their March 
home from Bucks County where they have been for some time As they 
could not be subsisted at their Quarters for want of provisions. I have 
not been informed of the particular reason for their returning. 

Much time hath been taken up in an affair of Mr. Howel both before 
I wrote you last and since. A letter from General Varnum and one from 
Mr. Howel upon the same subjects hath been laid before Congress with 
Governor Trumbull's where upon it was ordered that the president In- 
form Governor Trumbull the circumstances of Mr. Howels application 
and Pasport grants in consequence thereof. Rhode Island is left with 
out advice in the Matter. I make no doubt he will be treated agreable to 
the rules of Justice and good policy. I shall only add that Dr. Smith 
a gentleman of good Caractor in this place who is as he saith well ac- 
quainted with Mr. Howel, saith many clever things of him, such as will 
I suppose induce Congress to wish every such person possessed of a good 
fortune to remove with it into some of these states.^ .... 

I have been in dayly expectation of receiving the Act of our general 
Assembly for funding the Money to be Emited persuant to the act of 
Congress of the i8th of March last. It is not yet come to hand. I wish 
it may arive soon. As I mentioned in my former letter that I feared it 
would be a long time before the Bills would be struck, these fears are by 
no means removed. I most zealously wish to see these New bills in Cir- 
culation in all these States in full faith and credit. I must confess I can- 
not be sanguine in my Expectations on this head at present. A few days 
since a gentleman from Massachusetts Bay came to this City with some 
of the New Bills emitted by that State. He could not pass them at any 
rate even to pay his Expences. Mr. Adams gave him Continental money 
in Exchange. If we cannot establish some sort of Currency among us 
upon a permanent footing in which the people at large have full faith. It 
appears to me not to need the Spirit of prophecy to foretell that our ruin 
is not far distant. I cannot help here mentioning one circumstance that 
I wish to remain a profound secret, at least to be Communicated no 
further than the good of the state may require. I had the honour to be 
one of the Committee that waited on the Minister of France yesterday to 
know if he thought it was probable if Congress should draw Bills on the 
Court of France for Forty Thousand pounds sterling that they would be 
Honoured. The minister was free and open and after fully stating the 
low state of their Finances and the purposes for which they had been 
drained [?] he frankly told us that in his opinion it was impossible they 
could be accepted if they were drawn, to which may be added that we have 
not the least shadow of promise that a Bill for £20 on any power in 

2 See no. 408, ante. 

3 See nos. 404, 409-411, ante, and no. 577, post. 



September, 1780 355 

Europe would be paid. All publick business in the great departments of 
the Army are at a Total stand accept the Bank and the supplies from that 
Quarter fall much short of our expectations. Thus stands our affairs of 
Finance and Supplies for the Army. 

Congress are endeavouring if possible to reconcile matters so as to 
bring about a complition or Ratification of the Confideration as every 
member is more and more convinced of the Necessity of the measure. 

It appears to me our mode of doing publick business especially in time 
of war would ruin any Nation on Earth. Congress perhaps three Months 
in passing a recommendation to the states, three more in adopting it and 
then the sloath there is in some of the states in executing them it appears 
hath lately ruined one Army And Our main Army upon the Brink of 
starving.* 

It is absolutely necessary to Collect another Army to the Southward to 
stop the Career of the Enemy or where will they stop. But what is to be 
done to procure Arms! Accoutrements. Cloathing, Provisions, Tents, 
waggons etc. Is harder for me to solve then a problem in Euclid, perhaps 
a query will arise where is the Arms in the hands of the Militia at home, 
to which I answer they never have had any.^ .... 

413. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular. 

Philadelphia, September 3. 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith inclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 26 Ulto. earnestly recommending to the several States to take the most 
speedy and effectual Means in their Power for drawing in their respective 
Quotas of the Continental Bills of Credit ^ 

* It happened that on the same day on which Cornell was writing to Governor 
Greene, Elbridge Gerry, who had returned to Massachusetts in the beginning of June 
(see nos. 235-237, ante), wrote to Robert Morris touching the matter of efficiency in 
Congress, and also concerning the question of finances : " I most heartily agree with 
you, in the Expediency of making Congress merely deliberative, and in the Necessity of 
attending minutely to our publick Expenditure, having ever considered the amazing 
waste of publick Monies, as the greatest source of our Misfortunes. The frequent inter- 
views which you have with Members of Congress, afiford you a favorable opportunity for 
promoting those measures. I am exceedingly doubtful of the Abilities of the united States 
to raise the Supplies by Taxes, or to make a seasonable collection thereof ; and if both 
were practicable, would not the Burthens of the peoDle make them impatient, and risk 
a dishonorable Peace? other Governments tax for the Interest of their supplies, and 
thus establishing their Funds, find little difficulty in obtaining their Loans ; by which 
means every Provision for the Campaign is made previous to the Commencement, and 
not delayed till the Middle or End thereof. I wish the States would try the experiment, 
by levying a Tax in Specie, equal to double the Amount of the Interest of the Loan 
wanted for the supplies of the year, and Apply Part of the Tax to pay the Interest, and 
the residue as a sinking fund gradually to discharge the principal of a Loan for this 
Purpose, at the same Time providing that the Tax shall continue untill the Loan made 
thereon is fully discharged." Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 6. 

' See the Journals, Sept. 7, 8, 11. 
[413] ^Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 93; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 93 (dated Sept. 2) ; Arch, of Md., XLV. 73; A''. /. Rev. Corr., p. 258; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VIII. 535. 

- The first two paragraphs of the resolve are here given almost in the language 
of the Journals. The remainder of the act is more briefly characterized in the paragraphs 



356 Continental Congress 

You will also observe by this Act Provision is made for Payment of 
the public Debts due in any of the States in the Departments of the late 
Quartermaster Greene and Commissary Wadsworth, as also the present 
Commissary General of Purchases. 

And in order to prevent the Possibility of a Depreciation in the new 
Bills it is earnestly recommended to the several States, not to issue Bills 
of Credit for a Currency on any Account whatever, in such Manner as to 
have in Circulation a greater Amount than their respective Quotas of the 
new Bills. 

And in Order that Justice be done to the Creditors of these United 
States for Supplies furnished the x\rmy or Transportation thereof. Pro- 
vision is made by this Act that such Creditors be paid the just Value of 
their Debts, to be ascertained in the Manner expressed in the Act, and all 
Debts due to the United States are to be justly paid in like Manner. 

414. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philadelphia Sept. 3, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Act of Congress of the 
25. Ultimo ascertaining the rank of the Governors or Presidents of the 
several States whenever they shall act in the Field together, or in Con- 
junction with the Continental Army. The same rule hath been heretofore 
adopted in particular Cases as just and necessary and hath given Satis- 
faction. It is now deemed expedient to adopt the same as a general Rule 
which it is supposed will meet with Approbation in the respective States. 

415. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philada. 3d Sepr. 1780. 
Dear General, 

The Arival of the Young Gentlemen with your Dispatches to Congress 
shewing the sudden and unexpected defeat of the Army under your com- 
mand, must like every other event of that kind stand subjected to the vari- 
ous strictures of mankind forming Opinions on subjects in their local cir- 
cumstances too remote for accurate and fair decision even to judges other- 
wise competant — being indisposed I was not in the House when yr. letter 
was read, but have not learned that Congress either then or afterward have 
shewn the least disposition to censure ; a general concern as well without 
as within doors pervades the minds of the well disposed, and the more 

which follow. The latter part of the act as adopted is an amendment of the original 
proposition, as offered by Roger Sherman. To the copy of the resolves transmitted to 
Maryland (Md. Hist. Soc. Red Book. VII. 92) Secretary Thomson affixed a memoran- 
dum of explanation : " The resolution of the 7. Oct. 1779 referred to is for raising 
15,000,000, so that 3 million being the one fifth the Apportionment will be as follows." 

[414J1 Copied from the original (to President Reed), then in the possession of Mr. 
Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia ; Va. State Lib., Executive Papers ; Md. Hist. Soc.. 
Red Book, VII. 90 ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 95 ; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VIII. 535; Clinton Papers. VI. 168. 

[415]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, Box 15; N. C. State Recs.. XIV. 587. 



September, 1/80 357 

easily Obtains from a consideration of the deranged situation of our 
affairs in every quarter of the Country. Our expectations however are 
still lively and suggest the late misfortunes to the south as so many prompt- 
ers to greater vigour and firmness in the future exertions of those States, 
wherein Virginia, for many reasons ought to be deeply interested. Your 
letter is committed, but the result uncertain." Conjecture will probably 
pronounce that Congress having lately exerted every nerve that embarras- 
ments almost indiscriptible would admit, little more is to be expected from 
hence, whilst our Objects rise no higher than that of defence, to which at 
a proper distance you may again become competant — but on the Arrival 
of Governor Rutledge you will be informed of a different design, which 

requires time and various preparatives in order to give it effect 

The Second division of the French fleet has in fact been blocked up at 
Brest by thirty odd British Ships of the line, so that we have now but 
little expectation of their arrival in time for an expedition agst. New York 
before next Spring. 

nth Sepr. 

We have some reason to believe, that by this time 12 Sail of the Line 
and Six Frigates from the West Indias, have arrived at one or other of 
our Eastern Ports — this if true may revive the design agst. New York, 
of which I hope Major Maguill may carry you farther notice.^ Some 
British Commoners are still amusing themselves with the Idle phantom, 
that a Change in their Ministry, wou'd regain the confidence of America. 
Burke and Conway has indeed drawn the present picture of G. Britain in 
frightful Colours, and the Armed Neutrality of Rusia and various other 
Europian powers must have a humiliating influence on the arrogance of 
that Nation. The Emperour of Moroca has Ordered his Ports kindly to 
treat and receive every American trader. Money alone, or rather the want 
of it is like to distress us beyond measure. The Army are now often with- 
out the Article of Beef. 

Your letter of the 29 ulto. is this day come to Town and the Result of 
a Committee will I doubt not furnish you with an agreeable answer.* I 
have reed. Major Armstrongs letters, and have my apprehensions lest his 
late illness may terminate in a decay, of which should you discover any 
Symtoms this Fall, I am persuaded your cordial friendship for him will 
prompt you to advise and give him such leave of Absence, as you may 
think proper for the recovery of his health, intimating the same to Con- 
gress or the Board of War. 

Please to present my Compliments to Mr. Thos. Burke, and inform 
him, that with perseverence I have procured a place in the Hospital De- 

2 See no. 408, ante, and nos. 415, 425, post. 

2 See no. 430, post. Major CTiarles Alagill was aide-de-camp to General Gates. 
He was doubtless one of the "young gentlemen" (if more than one) mentioned in the 
beginning of the letter as having brought Gates's despatches. See the Journals, Sept. 9. 

* The letter from Gates here referred to as of Aug. 29 was doubtless that from 
Gates to Washington, Aug. 29, mentioned in the Journals, Sept. 11. In both instances, 
however, the date given is probably an error, the letter referred to being that of Aug. 30 
{Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, III. 66). 



358 Continental Congress 

partment, for my unfortunate countryman of whom we spoke before he 
left Philada. 

Adieu Dear General may that God whos mercies are over all his other 
Works guide and protect you, and be not Discouraged. 

John Armstrong. 

[P. S.] I shall write my Son by Major Maguill — then intend to retire, 
my strength talents and constitutional time in Congress, being very near 
a period. ** 

416. Nathaniel Peabody to Ephraim Blaine.^ 

Morris Town, Sepr. 3d, 1780. 
Sir, 

It is the earnest request of General Schuyler, and Mr. Mathews, the 
latter being gone to Philadelphia, and the former to the State of New 
York, as well as my own, that you will be pleased to furnish us with a 
monthly return of the supplies furnished by the State of Pensylvania, 
from the ist of May, to the i ith of August last, and which you will send, 
as soon as possible, inclosed to me at this place. - 

^ This letter is addressed: "Major General Gates Commanding the Southern 
Department Hillsburrow Favoured by Coll : Symph." This was no doubt Col. John 
Christian Senf. See the Journals. Sept. 8, g. Cf. Jefferson to Gates, Oct. 4, Official 
Letters of the Governors of Virginia, III. 215, and passim. See also vol. III. of these 
Letters, pp. 250, 316, 370. 

[416]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. I., f. 235 (copy, addressed 
to "Coll Eph'm Blaine C. G. P. Camp"), no. 11, p. 338 (letter-book copy). 

2 Peabody is writing as a member of the committee at headquarters, recently 
discharged. See nos. 373, 376, 400, ante, and nos. 434, 446, post. Schuyler had left Wash- 
ington's headquarters for Albany about a month before (see no. 361, ante), and did not 
return again to Congress. His account for attendance from 1775 to 1780, the close of 
which he placed at September 4, does not appear to have been rendered until May 4. 
1786. The account (copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels 
of Philadelphia) follows: 
" State of New York 

To Philip Schuyler Dr. 

To my services as Delegate from the 15th May I775\ £59 10 

to 19th June following is 35 days at 34/ per day J 

To 6 days on my Jourey [j;Vl from Albany to Phila-\ jq 4 

delphia, at 34/ f 

To my services as a Delegate in congress from 2ist^ 

March 1777 to 27 May Inclusive, Including 6 days 1 115 12 

for going and 6 days returning to Albany is 68 
days at 34/ 

To ditto from i6th Nov. I779 to 12 Decem'r Includ- \ 45 18 

ing 12 Trav'g days is 27 days at 34/ I 

To ditto from 27 Feby. 1780 to the 4 Sept. 1780! 323 

Including Traveling days is 190 days J 

^^554 4 
1780 Cr. 

April 17 By Cash he drew from the Continental Treasury\ 33 9 4 

5000 Dollars at 60 for i is 83^3 DoH'rs at 8/ J — 

£520 14 8 



September, 1780 359 

417. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, September 4, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Excellency's despatches of the 21 ulto. 
by Messenger Brown, one of them enclosing the proceedings of the late 
Convention at Boston, the other respecting the case of George Howell, 
both which have been laid before Congress." .... 

The situation of our finances yet remains distressing, and seems the 
true cause to which every other difficulty and embarrassment may be 
traced up. It is from this source Congress has been driven thro' dire neces- 
sity to adopt measures which they would have gladly avoided, and which, 
I presume, are disagreeable to all, and perhaps unaccountable to some of 
the States. 

It may be justly asked, Why are not magazines laid up before hand in 
season? Why are not the creditors to the public paid without delay? and 
why are not many other things done which it is so obvious ought to be 
done? The answer is obvious. I need not give it. 

A stable medium introduced, it appears to me, would go a great way 
towards relieving the difficulty. Were our finances on such a foundation 
that ways and means could be timely obtained to defray the necessary 
expence of the war, our affairs would wear a better aspect than the most 
sanguine could have expected.^ .... 

I have lately received a letter from an officer, consul under the Em- 
peror of Morrocco, in behalf of the Emperor, inviting these United States 
to trade in his ports, and giving assurance that they may and shall enjoy 
all priviledges of any maritime powers, and that he is disposed to enter 
into a treaty of commerce with us.'* .... 

I do hereby declare upon honor that the above account of my Services as a delegate 
In Congress is Just and true 

NEW YORK May 4th 1786 

PH : SCHUYLER" 

On the reverse page of the statement is the voucher and Schuyler's receipt. Besides 
the item of five thousand dollars drawn from the Continental treasury Apr. 17, 1780, the 
Journals record a warrant for fifteen thousand to Scott in behalf of himself, Schuyler, 
and Livingston. May 2, and one of ten thousand to Scott on the application of and for 
the use of Schuyler, June 29. Schuyler also obtained a warrant for two thousand 
November 30, 1779. All these items were charged to the state of New York, and while 
the language of the Journals in such cases usually indicates that the warrants are for 
the personal use of the delegates, that is not always conclusive. 
[41 7] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 127. 

- Concerning the case of George Howell, see no. 409, note 2, ante. 

3 Oliver Wolcott, member-elect from Connecticut but not in attendance, in a 
letter to Samuel Lyman Sept. 4, discussed the financial problem and foreign affairs. 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Collection, Members of the Old Congress; Conn. Hist. Soc, 
Wolcott Papers, copy. 

* The letter was from Stephen d'Audibert Caille, was written from Sale, 
Morocco, Sept. 6, 1779, and was transmitted by Franklin (probably with his letter of 
May 3'i, although he does not mention it; see the Journals. Sept. i, Nov. 28, 1780, May 
28, 1781). A copy was nevertheless transmitted to Franklin with the instructions of 
Nov. 28, with the suggestion that Franklin correspond with d'.'^udibert Caille, who 
represented himself as having been named by the emperor of Morocco as " consul for 



360 C ontinental Congress 

The period that confines me to my present painful situation is almost 
expired/ and as I have been long absent from my private affairs, and my 
health somewhat impaired with the burthen and fatigue of business, I 
hope to obtain leave of absence in about one month, and wish a gentleman 
from Connecticutt better qualified may come forward to relieve me. 
I have the honor to be, 

with every sentiment of esteem and respect. 

Your Excellency's most obedient servant, 

Sam. Huntington. 

418. The Virginia Delegates, Certificate.^ 

We, Delegates from the Commonwealth of Virginia do certify that 
Congress have received authenticated Copies of Acts of the Legislatures 
of the following States, complying with their resolutions of the i8th of 
March last relative to the public finances, viz. 

1. An Act of the Legislature of Maryland passed the 12th day of June 
1780, entitled "An Act for sinking the Quota required by Congress of 
this State of the bills of credit emitted by Congress ". 

2. An x^ct of the Legislature of New Jersey passed the 9th day of June 
1780 entitled "An Act for establishing a fund for sinking and redeeming 
the proportion of the bills of credit of the United States assigned as the 
quota of this State ["]. 

3. An Act of the Legislature of New York passed the 15th of June 
1780 entitled "An Act approving of the Act of Congress of the i8th day 
of March 1780, relative to the finances of the United States, and making 
provision for redeeming the proportion of this State of the bills of credit 
to be emitted in pursuance of the said Act of Congress ["]. 

4. An Act of the Legislature of Massachussets bay passed the 5th day 
of May 1780, entitled "An Act making provision for calling in to be 
destroyed this State's Quota according to the present apportionment of 
all the public bills of credit, which have been emitted by Congress, and for 
making and emitting on the credit of this State other bills of credit not 
to exceed the sum of four hundred and sixty thousand pounds, and for 
establishing funds sufficient to secure the redemption of the bills so emitted 
by the last day of december 1786, as recommended by a resolution of 
Congress of the i8th day of March of the present year and in conformity 
thereto: also for paying annually in Specie the interest arising on notes 
which have been issued upon the credit of the province Colony or now 
State of Massachussets bay promising to be paid in gold or silver ["]. 

those foreign nations who have none in his dominions". At almost the same time (Nov. 
30) Jay transmitted to Congress some correspondence between him and d'Audibert 
Caille in the preceding April, together with the text of the latter's appointment, etc., and 
the letter of Sept. 6, 1779 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 169-174; Huntington's reply, 
May 28, 1781, is ibid., p. 451). Jay's letter to Franklin conveying the instructions of Nov. 
28, 1780, is ibid., p. 163. D'Audibert Caille had in fact written to Franklin as early as 
Apr. 14, 1778 (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers), and he was writing to Carmichael as 
late as 1785 {ibid.). 

^ The allusion is to the approaching end of a year of his occupancy of the presi- 
dency. See the Journals, Sept. 28; also no. 464, post. 
[418]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



September, 1780 361 

5. An Act of the Legislature of New Hamshire passed April 29th 1780 
entitled "An Act for complying with and carrying into execution certain 
resolutions of Congress of the i8th of March 1780 for sinking the bills 
of public credit now current and for issuing other bills in their stead["]. 

6. A Conditional Act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed the 
first day of June 1780 entitled "An Act for funding and redeeming the 
bills of credit of the L'nited States of America and for providing means 
to bring the present war to a happy conclusion ["]. 

Jos. Jones 
James Madison Jun 
Jn. Walker 
Philadelphia Septr. 5th, 1780'- 

419. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadel'a Sepr. 5th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Army has been for some Days without meat and has only 
depended upon the gleanings of the neighbouring Country which is now 
entirely exhausted. Flour is from day to Day scantily supplied, and after 
a small quantity is gone which the General has drawn from West point 
there is not a Nother Barrel nearer than Trenton. It is vain to veil our 
Situation, the Army must disband, unless other States will do as Mary- 
land has done; If Laws taking the surplus of provisions were passed in 
some States relief might be given. The Generals Letter upon the present 
State of the Army is a circular one, and I presume you have it before 
now." All the provisions that have been procured ought to be forwarded 
as soon as possible. This subject I flatter myself will engage your Excel- 
lency' and the Council' attention 

Mr. Hanson has been very unwell for a week past and of course the 
State unrepresented. It is now a very critical Time, and I wish not to 
be alone. I have wrote to Majr. Jenifer and beg you will do the same, 
urging the Necessity of his attendance. 

420. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry. ^ 

Sept. 5th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favor of the 14th of Augst. came to hand Yesterday. I will be 
particular on the several Points; but at present mean only to thank you 

- This certificate is appended to a copy of a letter from Charles Lee, secretary 
to the board of treasury, dated Aug. 7 and addressed to the governor of Virginia, 
acknowledging the Virginia act in response to the resolution of Mar. i8, mentioning the 
like acts by other states, and indicating the preparation and transmission by the treasury 
board of new bills accordingly. C/. no. 314, ante. 

[419]^ Md. Hist. Soc, Red'Book, V. 61; Arch, of Md.. XLV. 80. 

- Washington's circular letter to the states Aug. 27. See no. 422, note 3, post. 
[420]! The original letter is in the private collection of Mrs. Annette Townsend Phil- 
lips, of Goshen, N. Y., a descendant of Elbridge Gerry, and it is by her courtesy that 
we are permitted to make use of it here. 



362 Continental Congress 

for it at the Post office. Gates has been defeated. He writes in something 
resembling a Panic. I hope at worst he will only prove to have been mis- 
taken. But if Smallwood is alive with any of his Corps the old Genl. will 
be sneered at in Spite of Saratoga. 

Perhaps you will have Opportunity to write to Dana. I therefore say 
that the Talk here is that no Secretary of Embassies has more than £300. 
so that if the Establishm't remains as it is, more cannot be expected. J. J. 
has found himself mistaken in his fondness for C — rm — I's being with 
him. Govr. M is my Author.^ 

Congress has done the Justice you ask after to those who supply us.' 

My Family was in a most horrid Situation the 3 first Weeks of Augst. 
Doctr. Holten had with him a Draught which gave Relief as to money. 
But Wife, only Daughter and eldest Son were in Bed. Pray let me know 
what Ground I am on besides my Expences. I shall seriously think of 
starving at Home as soon as Ar Lee has come to some Close of his Affairs 
here. I wish he may get through as quickly as Izard.* 

I will give you a most scandalous Motion the product of Camp Educa- 
tion of some of our Members, the next Time I write. ^ But if we have not 
a Supply of Money from the States, we must expect frequent Maggots 
about creating Omnipotencies 

I begged this Paper of a Dutch man the Post Office not having a Sheet. 

421. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Sepr. 5th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have recalled the Com'tee from Camp, have aimed to do 
Justice to the officers without giving in to Whims. Their Widows and 

2 The abbreviations are for John Jay, William Carmichael, and Gouverneur 
Morris. 

3 The reference is doubtless to the action of Congress Aug. 26, supplementing 
that of June 12. 

* For the adjustment of Izaid's case see the Journals, Aug. 7, 9, 11; for that of 
Arthur Lee see ibid., Oct. 19, 30, Dec. 2, 15 ; see also nos. 489, 506, post. 

5 In a letter to Gerry Nov. 20 (no. 518, post) Lovell gives the substance of the 
motion, but there characterizing it as " curious ". The motion was by John Mathews, 
late member of the committee at headquarters. See nos. 373, 376, 400, ante, and nos. 
434, 446, post. Izard wrote to Richard Henry Lee from Philadelphia Oct. 15: 

" I am perfectly of your opinion that the political salvation of America depends upon 
the recalling of Dr. Franklin. This opinion I have made publickly known; whether 
any good effect will be produced by it, a little time will discover. Soon after my arrival 
here I wrote to Congress, and informed them that I was ready to give them any informa- 
tion in my power respecting their affairs in Europe. Mr. McKean, Mr. Lovell, and 
Mr. Maddison were appointed a committee to confer with me. The Report contained 
simply an approbation of my conduct, without mentioning anything respecting Dr. Frank- 
lin. This was done on account of your Brother's arrival being daily expected, and 
therefore I did not press for any addition to the Report. He intends applying soon to 
Congress for a hearing, and I hope that the changes which have been made in that body 
within the last two years, will appear not to be for the worse" (Univ. of Va. Library, 
Lee Papers). See no. 489, note 4. post. Izard brought his own case before Congress in 
a letter of Aug. 6, read Aug. 7. The committee reported Aug. 9. 
[421]^ Essex Jnst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 214. 



September, 1/80 363 

Children are to have the 7 years half pay; and the Clause which stopped 
the Pension upon an officer being elected to a civil office is repealed.^ 

3 millions Tax against the last of Deer, is called for and Justice is to 
be done to all who have supplied the public.^ 

We must have money at all adventures. Nothing else is wanting to 
raise us again into Reputation, and prevent stupid plans of creating abso- 
lute Dictators to get supplies without paying for them. 

I write at the Post office having been forced to borrow a sheet of Paper 
from a Stranger in the neighborhood of it. such is its poverty. 

422. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Dear S'r, 

I have received your favor of the 13th ult. upon the subject of a Report 
respecting a certain Gentleman and thank you for the freedom and candid 
manner of your communications.' The resentment discovered agst. the 
gentleman alluded to began to subside before your Letter came to hand 
and though for some time it was occasionally mentioned in conversation 
it has lately dyed away and will I expect not be revived. The Report of 
the Committee not only accepted his resignation but went further and I 
believe had it been then determined the Gentleman would have been in- 
formed his services in the line of the Army would have been dispensed 
with that he might have leisure to attend to the settlement of his accounts. 
Had this step been taken it is probable a resignation would have ensued 
and perhaps a public discussion in the papers w'ch would have produced 
no good, and upon the whole I am well pleased the matter was caryed no 
further than it has been. But unacquainted as I am with antecedent cir- 
cumstances, and judging from what was before me, my Opinion was the 
Gentleman was justly reprehensible for the manner of his conduct as a 
Servant of the public employed in an important office or as a Citizen em- 
barked in the common cause of America. The amasing Sums of money 
gone into that Departm't under his superintendence, abt. eighty millions 
and it is said about thirty millions unpaid, the whole of which is unac- 
counted for has excited uneasiness not only in this Body but the people at 
large who call out for a settlement of the public accounts, and although 
repeated endeavours have been used to bring the officers in the great de- 
partment of the army to account none have been rendered nor any likeli- 
hood of bring'g them to a settlement. The embezelm't and waste of public 
property in these departments have greatly contributed to enhance our 
Debt and depreciate the currency, and these abuses demand inquiry and 

-Concerning the committee at headquarters see the Journals, Aug. 11, and no. 
373, note 2, ante. With regard to action in behalf of the officers see the Journals, Aug. 
12, 24, no. 375, note 2, ante, and no. 428, post. Relative to the remonstrance of the gen- 
eral officers see a letter from General St. Clair to Joseph Reed Sept. 5 (Pa. Arch., first 
sen, VIII. 537). 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 26. 
[422]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 78; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 27. 

2 Washington's letter of Aug. 13 to Jones, which relates to General Greene, is 
in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 378, (ed. Sparks), VII. 149. See also nos. 350, 363, ante. 



364 Continental Congress 

punishment but I see no fair prospect of obtaining satisfaction for past 
transgressions and shall be happy to find we shall be able to avoid the like 
practices in future, a reform or any attempt to Reform seemed absolutely 
necessary for the satisfaction of the public and although the new System 
was pronounced a physical impossibility in execution others who have 
served long in the army and were of the Committee that made the altera- 
tions entertained a contrary opinion and they affirm the Gentleman now 
in office if he can be supported with money can fully carry the new system 
into execution. 

In short I have seen some and been told of so many abuses in the O. 
Master's Com'aries and medical departments in the course of the last two 
years that I candidly confess I feel a degree of resentment agst. the con- 
duct of many in those departm'ts bordering on prejudice so nearly that I 
have resolved to condemn no person even in opinion witho't clear proof 
of delinquency least I should injure the character of some honest man in 
the general censure w'ch unhappily is but too prevalent. 

What I feared for some time is at length but too evident, that our de- 
signs agt. new York must wait for more favourable circumstances to 
attempt carrying them into execution — perhaps something may in the 
course of the winter be done to the South should we be in a situation to 
recover our losses there and be in time provided with a well appointed 
Regular Army and magazine of provisions laid up. it is to be hoped we 
shall in the Spring, before the Enemy can be reinforced and obtain sup- 
plies, be in condition to act offensively agst. New York. Your letters of 
the 20th last month and of the 27th, circular to the States are before a 
Committee and will in a day or two be Reported upon as to Flour and 
meat, the great objects of drawing forth in time a competent regular 
Army and laying up Magazines will soon come in and I hope soon go 
through Congress that the several States may proceed to make the Neces- 
sary provisions.^ I shall leave this place on Thursday for Virginia and 
mean to attend our next session of Assembly in hopes of promoting a 
cession on the part of the State of their claim to the Lands to the N. W. 
of the Ohio to the united States which will be recommended to all the 
States having unappropriated western territory for the purpose of com- 
pleating the Confederation.* I shall be glad to hear from you while there 

3 Washington's letter of Aug. 20 to which Jones refers is that to Congress, 
read Aug. 28 (Writings, ed. Ford, VIII. 386). That of Aug. 27 was a circular to the 
states (ibid., p. 410), read in Congress Sept. 4. Cf. his letters to Congress Sept. 6, 8. 
15 (ibid., pp. 421, 425, 440). The letter of Aug. 20 and the three last mentioned are 
also in Writings (ed. Sparks), VII. 156, 184, 189, 205. It was in conseouence of these 
letters, particularly the first, that a new arrangement of the army was proposed. See 
the Journals, Aug. 28, Sept. 4, 11, 14, 15. 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 28, Oct. 3. 21; also no. 404, 
ante, and nos. 428, 432-434, 451, post. 

4 See the Journals, Sept. 6 (especially the motion of Jones and Madison) and 
Sept. 9; also nos. 29, 93, 288, ante, 426, 430, 442, 443, 458. 477, 486, 519. 521, 525, 563. 
616, 622-629, post. Cf. the resolves offered liy Witherspoon Sept. 6, 25. 1782. 

In a letter to an unidentified correspondent, Aug. 2. Cyrus Grifiin discusses, in con- 
nection with a project for the establishment of an institution of learning on the banks 
of the Ohio, some aspects of the Western land problem and alludes (apparently) to the 
resolution of Oct. 30, 1779, and the Virginia remonstrance of December following. " I 
am astonished ", he says, " the memorial addressed to Congress in January last has 



September, I/80 365 

upon any matters that may occur and you shall think proper to com- 
municate. 

Phila: 6th Sept. 1780 

423. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Sept. /th 1780. 
Hon. Sir, 

With a letter of former dates " I have to inclose to you some further 
proceedings of Congress respecting Bills drawn upon you, and to acknowl- 
edge the Receipt of yr. Letter of May 31st. I think I can venture now to 
assure you that not a single Draught more will be made upon you let the 
occasion be ever so pressing. But you must be entreated to work with all 
Energy as to the past. You cannot conceive of the whole Train of Neces- 
sities which led to such Decissions after what you had written. 

Congress have called for 3 millions more estimating in silver to be pd. 
by the last of December. Nothing but the Weight of Taxes will put an 
End to the Levity with which our Currency is treated. 

New York has empowered her Delegates to cede part of her western 
Claims ; it is recommended to others who have such like to relinquish also 
a Portion and Maryland is anew invited to close the Ratification of the 
confederating articles. We must as a whole show more Vigor than of late. 

424. Nathaniel Peabody to the Governor of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Morristown 8th Sept. 1780. 
My Hond and Dear Sir, 

.... The state of my health has been for some time exceedingly un- 
favourable tho I ami now much better than at any time for a month past. 
I am now (with considerable assistance in the Copying way) making out 
the report of the Committee " which I hope to have compleated w-ithin 
8 or ten days, upon which I shall set out immediately for N. Hampr. where 
I wall finish the main part of this Letter. 

Affairs at the Southward continue disagreeable. Accounts here are 
that Genl. Gates and his Army at South Carolina are mostly cut off by 
Cornwallis, particulars you will doubtless have sooner by other Con- 
veyances. 

I am not much elated with expectations from this Campaign! Time will 
undeceive the public — some future day they will be able to judge who has 

not been acted upon, to my judgment it is a matter of real importance, and I hope the 
united states will view the affair in the same light that I do tho our finances are not a 
little pressing. I wish it was in my power to assist the memorial, but I have quitted 
Congress for two or three vears probablv." Haverford College, Roberts Coll.. 722. 

[423]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XIX. 68; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 52. 
2 See no. 381, ante. 

[424]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare. p. 189. 

- The report, consisting of a record of the principal part of their correspondence 
and proceedings, and closing with a short statement, was presented to Congress Nov. 16. 
The statement, dated Nov. i, is in the Journals under Nov. 16. This volume constitutes 
no. II of the Papers of the Continental Congress. Another copy, presumably one retained 
by Peabody, is in the New Hampshire Historical Society. See no. 446, post. 



366 Continental Congress 

kept them in Ignorance — who has been the faulty Cause of prolonging 
this distressing War. but I add no more upon so disagreable, so delicate 
a subject. 

The Army under Genl. Washington from their increasing numbers and 
prospect of Supplies, when I left them,^ formed sanguine expectations. 
But alas the scene is chang'd. The golden oppertunity will be lost. 

425. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. September 9, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the 20. Ulto. hath been received and laid before Con- 
gress, since which we have received Intelligence more favourable respect- 
ing the Action near Cambden the 16. Ulto. " that a Part of the Conti- 
nental Troops made good their retreat, and an x\rmy are again collecting ".^ 

Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 8. Instant, by 
which you will be informed, that it is intended to lay up Magazines of 
Provisions and Forage for an Army of fifteen thousand Men for six 
Months in the southern Department. 

You will also observe what Measures Congress have recommended by 
the Act enclosed for reinforcing the southern Army under your Command. 

Some further Measures are under Consideration, which, as soon as 
completed will be sent forward. The Board of War will inform you what 
they have done and are doing to supply Arms with other Articles and 
Camp Equipage necessary for the southern Army. 

It is to [be] hoped that the Panick which it seems had seised the Mili- 
tia will wear off, and that you may yet be able to check the Progress of 
the Enemy until more effectual Measures may be taken to expel them 
from South Carolina and Georgia. 

426. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philadelphia September 10, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 6. Instant, adopting the Report of a Committee, together with Copies 
of the several Papers referred to in the Report. 

^ See no. 346, note 3, ante. 

[425]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 97; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates 
Papers, IL 133. 

2 The statement is doubtless based on Jefferson's letter of Sept. 3 and Governor 
Nash's letter of Aug. 23, both read in Congress Sept. 7. A report on Gates's letter of 
Aug. 20 was brought in the same day, but recommitted. See Jefferson's several letters 
of Sept. 3 {Official Letters, IL 182-187). Those to President Huntington, to Washington, 
and to General Stevens are in Writings, \l. 331-334. 

[426]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VH. 71; Mass. Arch., CCHL 76; Conn. State Lib.. 
Trumbull Papers (M.H.S.), XH. 287; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, XH. 
287; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 102; British Public Record Office, C. O. 5:100 
(old reference A. W. L 138:581; letter to the President of New Hampshire, inter- 
cepted) ; William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (to the President of the Massa- 
chusetts council) ; Royal Gazette, Extraordinary, Nov. 9, 1780 (letter to Rhode Island, 
intercepted); Arch, of Md., XLV. 92; Clinton' Papers, VI. 189. 



September, I/80 367 

I am directed to transmit Copies of this Report, and the several Papers 
therein mentioned to the Legislatures of the several States, that they all 
may be informed of the Desires and Endeavours of Congress on so im- 
portant a Subject, and those particular States which have Claims to the 
western Territory, and the State of Maryland may adopt the ^Measures 
recommended by Congress in Order to obtain a final Ratification of the 
Articles of Confederation 

Congress impressed with a Sense of the vast Importance of the Subject 
have maturely considered the same, and the Result of their Deliberation 
is contained in the enclosed Report, which being full and expressive of 
their Sentiments upon the Subject ; without any additional Observations 
it is to be hoped and most earnestly desired, that the Wisdom, Generosity 
and Candour of the Legislatures of the several States which have it in 
their Power on the one Hand to remove the Obstacles, and on the other 
to complete the Confederation, may direct them to such Measures, in Com- 
pliance with the earnest Recommendations of Congress, as shall speedily 
accomplish an Event so important and desirable as the final Ratification 
of the Confederation by all the States.' 

427. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Sepr. loth 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I send you by Capt. Barry an Index to the Journals of 1778. \\t have 
not yet the particulars of the Defeat of our army from Genl. Gates but 
we have an account from Genl. [Governor] Nash ^ to the Delegates of 
North Carolina much more favorable than we had reason to look for after 
the first Letter on the Subject. Mankind are so much governed in Judg- 
ment by Events that I fear Genl. Gates will lose much Reputation. He 
thought he should have as much Influence with the militia in that Quarter 
as in another and therefore made several attempts (to rally) ^ there till 
he was drawn far from the Spot where the action began ; and had a right 
to conclude on the ceasing of the fire that the small Remains of his army 
was cut intirely off or dissipated. Being also among very disaffected 
people he would have been momently exposed to be betrayed as he was 
without even a guard of Horse. He thought it his Business to endeavor to 
get from the general assembly at Hillsborough Something of a new Army. 

Had he stayed luckily with the small Body of Continentals he would 
only have been blamed for not exerting himself to rally the militia, a 
trifling Slur to what he now meets with. 

2 See the Joxinials. Sept. 6; also no. 422, and note 4, ante. The enclosures, as 
found in Clinton Papers, VI. 190-205, are: the declaration of Maryland, Dec. 15, 1778; 
the instructions to the Maryland delegates, same date ; the Virginia remonstrance, Dec. 
14, 1779; and the New York act of Feb. 19, 1780. 
{^2']]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 215. 

- Governor Nash's letter, Aug. 23, is in A'^. C. State Recs., XV, 60. 

* An interpolation in Essex Inst. Hist. Colls. 

28 



368 Continental Congress 

I am persuaded there is a good Body of Men together by this time. I 
only fear about magazines and arms. We have recommended Provision 
to be made there for 15,000 as it is to be hoped that something may be 
done at the southward if nothing should be done in this Quarter. .... 

428. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. September 12, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 24. Ulto., 
making farther Provision for the Officers of the Army respecting their 
Rations, and extending the half Pay granted to Officers by the Resolution 
of the 15. of May 1778 to the Widows or Children (as the Case may be) 
of such Officers as have died or may die in the Service also repealing a 
restricting Clause in the last mentioned Resolution, and ascertaining the 
half Pay of General Officers in Proportion to their present Pay. 

You have also enclosed an Act of Congress of the 11. Instant requesting 
the State of Virginia to furnish her quota of Supplies as speedily as may 
be agreeable to the Requisition of the 25. of February last, with an Addi- 
tion of five thousand Barrels of Flour. 

You will also observe by this Act of the 11. Instant the Expediency of 
sending forward to the Southern Army a Corps of Artillery and a Re- 
inforcement of Cavalry is referred to the Commander in Chief. 

I have also enclosed for your Information an Act of Congress of the 
12. Ulto. in Consequence of a Memorial from the General Officers. This 
Act which makes Provision in Favour of the Officers and Soldiers was 
mislaid by Accident in the Secretary s Office or it would have been sooner 
transmitted. 

■ P. S. Your Despatches of the 30. Ulto. have been duly received Those 
addressed to Genl. Washington were immediately forwarded and your 
Intelligence communicated to the Minister of France agreeable to your 
Request. 

S. H. 

429. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, September 12, 1780. 
Sir, 

.... Congress are now engaged to devise ways and means if possible 
to have an army of twenty five thousand men at least, engaged during the 
war, with magazines of provision for six months before hand ; could this 
be accomplished there is the greatest reason to believe a negotiation in 
earnest for peace would soon take place." 

[428] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. loi. 

[429]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, III. 135. 

~ The new arrangement of the army, reported by the committee on sundry 
letters from General Washington, Aug. 20 and following, was adopted Oct. 3, with an 
amendment Oct. 21. See no. 422, note 3, ante. 



September, lySo 369 

From the best intelligence it appears beyond a doubt that the British 
administration flatter themselves that such is the state of our finnances, 
and the circumstances of this country, we cannot any longer keep up an 
army; upon this they buoy up their hope and encourage their people that 
we shall soon submit to their terms. 

They have every appearance in Europe against them. The late declara- 
tion of Russia to support the rights of neutrality operates powerfully 
against them, and is acceded to by most of the maritime neutral powers 
of Europe already, and will be, most likely, by all. 

I hope no exertion will be wanting on the part of Congress, or any of 
the States, to establish an army without delay. It seems highly probable 
we cannot want them long in service, unless the British should obtain 
some very capital advantage by sea. 

430. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton/ 

Phila. Sepr. 12th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The delay of Ternay's 2d division and the report of its being 
shut up in Brest have brought our hopes from the present campaign very 
low. They have been a little revived within a few days by sundry con- 
curring information that a large French fleet from the ^^^est Indies is on 
our coast.- .... 

V<t have the comfort to find from every successive account from the 
Southward that the late unfortunate affair in that quarter, although truly 
distressing, is by no means so fatal as was at first held up to us. Our 
scattered troops are again embodying, and as a sense of shame is now 
joined to a sense of public danger in the Militia it is to be hoped they will 
endeavour to cancel their disgrace by extraordinary exertions. Congress 
have recommended it to Virga. and N Carolina to form Magazines for 
a large army, to the former to hasten the march of her new levies, and the 
latter to take immediate measures for filling her continental line.^ 

Congress have also at length entered seriously on a plan for finally rati- 
fying the confederation. Convinced of the necessity of such a measure, 
to repress the hopes with which the probable issue of the campaign will 
inspire our enemy as well as to give greater authority and vigor to our 
public councils, they have recommended in the most pressing terms, to 
the States claiming unappropriated back lands, to cede a liberal portion 
of them for the general benefit. As these exclusive claims formed the only 
obstacle with Maryland there is no doubt that a compliance with this 
recommendation will bring her into the confederation. How far the States 
holding the back lands may be disposed to give them up cannot be so easily 
determined. From the sentiments of the most intelligent persons which 

[430]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), 
I. 50 (part) ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 67 (part). 

2 See no. 415, ante, and no. 443, post. He next refers to the news of the separa- 
tion of the French and Spanish fleets. 

^ See the Journals, Sept. 8, 11. 



370 Continental Congress 

have come to my knowledge, I own I am pretty sanguine that they will 
see the necessity of closing the union in too strong a light to oppose the 
only expedient that can accomplish it/ .... 

431. Elbridge Gerry to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (James Bowdoin).^ 

Boston 14th September 1780. 
Sir, 

Having lately returned to this State, I embrace the earliest Oppertunity 
of attending the General Assembly, to make such Communications as they 
may judge expedient respecting the Proceedings of Congress during the 
Time of my being a Member thereof ; and to lay before them an account 
of the annual expenditure of the united States, exclusive of foreign Sup- 
plies, since the Commencement of the War; the Sum borrowed by Con- 
gress on Loan Certificates ; the Particulars of their amount against this 
State ; and the Loans advanced by them to the Several States 

I must now beg leave to inform the assembly that in adjusting the 
Quotas of Massachusetts and Rates of Supplies required on February 
last of the respective states,^ I thot it necessary to represent to Congress, 
that the state of Massachusetts and several other States were greatly over- 
burdened ; and to make proposition for their Relief. Opposition being 

* See no. 422, note 4, ante. Replying to Madison, Sept. 25, Pendleton wrote : 
" I have thought long ago that 'twas high time the confederation was compleated, and 
feared some foreign powers might entertain from its delay, suspicions of some secret 
disunion amongst the States, or a latent intention in Congress to keep it open for 
purposes unworthy of them ; I am happy to hear it is resumed and think it becoming, 
and indeed an indispensable duty in this, as in all other social compacts, for the con- 
tracting members to yield points to each other, in order to meet as near the center of 
general good as the different jarring interests can be brought, and did it depend upon 
my opinion I would not hesitate to yield a very large portion of our back lands to 
accomplish this purpose, except for the reason which Shakespeare has put into the 
mouth of his Hotspur.* In reason and justice the title of Virginia to the western 
territory can no more be questioned than to any other spot in it. The point was fully 
and warmly agitated in Congress and determined in her favor, 12 States were satis- 
fied and agreed to confederate, and yet one stops the whole business setting up her 
judgment in opposition to so many. Yield to her in this, may she not play the same game 
to gain any future point of interest? I am told that Maryland insists upon one of our 
delegates having in a manner promised when the point of declaring independence was 
in debate, that the back lands should be a fund for supporting the war. I have (heard) 
that a rhetorical expression to that purpose was used by a gentleman on that occasion. 
[I] can balance that account at least by a very serious question more in point, debated 
in Congress in 1775, when the delegates from Pennsylvania and Virginia proposed that 
a garrison of 400 men be raised and kept at common expense at Pittsburg to awe the 
Indians. It was warmly opposed from Maryland upon this ground that it was a [scheme] 
of those two States merely to guard their own frontiers in which the others were not 
concerned, and therefore the expense must be incurred by the former. Their objections 
prevailed, the motion was rejected, and the two States raised the 200 men [each for] 
that service soon afterwards." [There are further remarks upon the subject. The brackets 
used above are in the printed text.] Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., XIX. 113. 

* " I'll give thrice so much land 
To any well deserving friend : 
But in the way of bargain, mark ye me, 
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair." 

[431] Mass. Arch., CCIII. 100. 

2 With regard to the quotas of troops see the Journals, Jan. 24, Feb. i to 9 ; with 
regard to the quotas of supplies see the Journals, Feb. 9 to 25. Cf. no. 43, note 3, ante. 



September, lySo 371 

made thereto, I required the yeas and nays on each Proposition, that the 
legislatures of said states might be informed of the Matter, and be better 
enabled to obtain Redress, but being over ruled by Congress in a Manner 
which I conceived to be inconsistent with order, and thus reduced to the 
necessity of seeing the grievances of those states unredressed, and the 
cause thereof concealed, I thot it my Duty to withdraw from Congress, 
and to remonstrate against their proceedings. In consequence thereof, 
sundry Resolutions and letters passed, Copies of which are inclosed for 
the consideration of the Assembly. These relate to the privilege of re- 
quiring the yeas and nays on question of order, the use of which at this 
Time was rendered indispensably necessary by the proceedings of the 
House : for when any Motion was made to redress the Grievances men- 
tioned, it was declared to be " out of order " altho' conformable to the 
Rules and usage of the House; and when the yeas and nays were required 
on the question of order, agreeable to the privilege of every Member, this 
was also over ruled; by which Means, the Sense of the House could not 
be obtained on the motions for Redress, neither could any entry thereof, 
or of the Members of the Manner by which they were suppressed, be made 
on the journals of Congress.^ 

But as it may take up too much of the Time of the Hona. assembly, to 
enter into a Detail of the Matter, and to point out the unjust and heavy 
expences that will be brot on the State, unless the Resolution of Congress 
respecting the Quotas of Men and Rates or Supplies are revised, and great 
allowances are made to the state, I shall suspend for the present any further 
observations on the Subject and communicate my Sentiments to a Com- 
mittee whenever the assembly shall think it expedient to appoint one for 
this purpose.'* 

432. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philada September 15, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
this Day, requesting the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts and 
Connecticutt to furnish weekly one thousand Head of Cattle for the Army 
in the Proportion mentioned in the Act ; and in Order to obtain an imme- 
diate Supply until Beeves can be brought from the States above men- 
tioned, the States of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware are called 
upon to furnish with all possible Despatch two thousand and fifty six 
Head of Cattle. 

The Army have at different Times been without Meat for several Days, 
a Situation too distressing, and alarming in its Consequences, to be again 
suffered to take Place in Future, if possible to be prevented. 

Congress upon mature Deliberation under present Circumstances could 
not devise any other Measures than those adopted by the Act enclosed to 

3 See nos. 55, 59, 124, 137, ante. 
* See no. 445, post. 
[432]! Mass. Hist. Soc., no. 51, vol. XIII., p. 8; Mass. Arch., CCIII. 105; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 103. 



372 Continental Congress 

supply the Army for the present Campaign; and should either of the 
States fail substantially to comply with this Requisition it is more than 
probable the Army must disband, or supply themselves at the Point of the 
Bayonet, and the most fatal Consequences must ensue. 

We have no other Resource left, or Expectation of supplying the 
[army in] such Manner as shall enable them to keep the Field the re- 
mainder of this Campaign, but from the vigorous Exertions of the sev- 
eral States above mentioned in Complyance with the enclosed Resolutions 
of Congress.^ 

433. The President of Congress to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philada. September 15, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
this Date, requesting the several States therein mentioned to furnish fat 
Cattle to supply the Army in Proportion therein expressed. 

Congress found themselves under the Necessity of requesting the State 
of New Jersey to furnish for an immediate Supply, until Cattle may 
arrive from the eastern States, 275 Head. If the Measures adopted by 
the Act enclosed should be complied with, as we trust they will be ; there 
will be no Want in future of Supplies for the Army this Campaign. The 
Necessity of the Measure is absolutely indispensable; and we believe the 
State of New Jersey which hath so frequently exerted itself on pressing 
Emergencies, will not be wanting in her Endeavours to comply with the 
present Requisition 

Congress would have exempted that State from the present Request 
could they have devised any other Means to feed the Army, but as that 
was not in their Power, it is requested in the most urgent Terms that the 
Number of Beeves mentioned may be furnished with all possible Despatch, 
as well to prevent the impending Distresses of the Army, as the conse- 
quent Distress that must fall upon the Inhabitants in the Vicinity of the 
Army.^ 

434. John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia, Septr. 15th 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

I had the pleasure of receiving your favor of the 9th inst. by Dr. Craig, 
two days ago. 

There is a new arrangement for the Medical Department now before 
Congress, and nearly compleated, by which there will be a very great 
reduction of officers. By the new System there will be fifteen principal 

~ See the Journals, Sept. 14, 15. Cf. no. 422, ante, and no. 433, post. 
[433]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 105; N. J. State Lib.; A'. /. 
Rev. Corr., p. 266 (dated Sept. 14). 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 14, 15, and no. 432, ante. 
[434]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
in. 87. 



September, 1780 373 

officers to be elected by Congress, which I apprehend will be but too much 
influenced by that spirit which has given a well grounded alarm to the 
Gentlemen concerned.' Evidently to evince how far such a disposition has 
already operated, the new O. M. G. is allowed to hold his commission at 
the Board of War, in direct violation of a law of Congress, and which 
has been uniformly practised upon, (except in a few instances of no im- 
portance.) But to suffer a man to hold two Commissions of the first con- 
sequence under the United States, savors so strongly of an outrageous 
partiality, that I shall be surprised at nothing, that may hereafter happen. 

I have the pleasure of being acquainted with most of the Gentlemen 
mentioned by Yr. Excellency, and know their worth, and no endeavours 
shall be wanting on my part, to promote their reestablishment, but I fear 
it will not be in my power to do them much service, for I find there is a 
decided party formed against the Committee that were at camp, which 
I have reason seriously to dread will be productive of no good to our 
public affairs. I owe much to the public but still I owe something to my- 
self, and can never tamely suffer a set of miscreants to triumph over me 
with impunity. Regardless of our Characters, as members of their own 
body, I find we are to be considered as Qr. Masters etc., and lyable to 
equal insults without the least pretensions to call such conduct in ques- 
tion, but I can assure them they will find me of a temper by no means cal- 
culated to answer their newfangled Dogmas.^ 

Although I had heard a good deal, and seen something, of the rancour 
of these demagogues yet I never imagined it had risen to that height, I 
was made to feel it had done, on my resuming my seat in Congress. I took 
the first opportunity, of going very largely into the state of our affairs, 
in order to found some propositions, which I made, but without allowing 
them to be worthy of a commitment, much less, of their consideration, 
they were in the lump rejected.* However I have this consolation, to re- 
flect they were approved by those, whose disinterestedness, and judgment, 
I have the best opinion of. Such an insult I never saw offered to any 
member of Congress before. It shews such a determined, and premedi- 
tated prejudice, as must inevitably lay me under the necessity of doing 
what I would wish most earnestly to avoid. ° I beg your pardon. Sir. for 
detaining you so long on a subject relative to myself, but as my plan 
(above mentioned) was for the establishment of a permanent army, and 
the means of supporting the war, I thought it a subject you were so much 

2 Washington's letter to Mathews Sept. 9 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 428, 
(ed. Sparks), VII. 192. See also Mathews to the medical committee Aug. 10 (no. 371, 
ante). The initiation of the hospital measure appears to have been through a letter 
of Dr. Shippen Aug. 22, referred the same day to a committee who made a report on part 
of the letter Aug. 28 and a further report Sept. 9. Sept. 11 consideration of the report 
was assigned for Wednesday, Sept. 13. See, further, the Journals, Sept. 13, 22, 23, 30, 
Oct. 2, 6; cj. nos. 440, 460, post. 

' See nos. 272, 276, 383, 394, 400, ante. 

*Thfe propositions were doubtless the motion of which Lovell speaks in his 
letters to Gerry Sept. 5 and Nov. 20 (no. 420, ante, and no. 518, post). For the removal 
of a geographical restriction on Washington's powers see nos. 232, 248, 287, 322, note 17, 
ante, and the Journals, Aug. 2. 

5 Cf. no. 400, ante, and no. 451, post. 



374 Continental Congress 

interested in that it would not be unacceptable to you to know the result 
of my endeavours, and how little prospect I have of being farther useful 
to this end, for I suppose any future propositions of mine will be imme- 
diately exploded, " as too strongly tinctured with those Army principles, 
which I had imbibed, whilst with them ". I cannot but think it hard, that 
a man who wishes to be useful, should be thus unjustly precluded from 
being so. however, I know the rectitude of my intentions, and can at all 
times retire to my own bosom for my justification, and whilst that Moni- 
tor supports me, I shall continue to act my part regardless of every con- 
tentious spirit. 

Your Excellency's letter of the 20 Ulto. has now been twenty four days 
in the hands of a Committee. I have repeatedly called for a report from 
them, but by what I can find, little or nothing has been yet done upon it, 
this does not at all surprise me, and I dare say by the time the Committee, 
and Congress have done with it, the time will arrive, when the army ought 
to be in the field. This ruinous delay I wanted to prevent, by Congress 
taking up my propositions in the first instance, but by their not doing it, 
I may readily conclude, it militated too much against the plan they have 
in contemplation, and therefore further conclude, it will not be such a 
one, as will in its operation, be effectual. This may look like arrogating 
too much to myself, but the event will prove whether I am right, or not.® 

I have the honor to be with the highest respect and Esteem 

Yr. Exc'ys most Obedt. Servt. 

John Mathews. 

435. Samuel Adams to John Lowell.^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 15, 1780. 
On Tuesday last. Congress took up the disputes relating to the New 
Hampshire grants, agreeably to an order, which passed the 9th of June, 
and for want of nine states, exclusive of the three interested ones, the 
matter was put off till yesterday. The delegates of New Hampshire and 
New York, were prepared with instructions from their respective states. 
A letter from Mr. Chittenden and others styling themselves " The Execu- 
tive Council of Vermont ", was sent in by their agents now in this city, 
claiming the rights of sovereignty of an independent state, and refusing 
to submit the question of their independence to Congress, as being incom- 
petent to judge and determine thereon. As there was no question pro- 
posed, a conversation, rather than a debate, ensued, which ended with a 
call for adjournment at the usual hour. This day, a letter was sent in to 
the president from agents in Vermont, praying that in case any question 
should be agitated concerning the rights and independence of their state, 
they might be admitted to be present and hear the debates. Another con- 
versation was begun, which was very soon interrupted by a call of the 
attention of the house to the present state and circumstances of the army. 
I am of opinion that Congress will not easily agree in the question proper 

6 See nos. 404, 422, 432, 433, ante, and nos. 435, 440, 451, 479, post. 
[43SV Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), IV. 203; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel 
Adams Papers (draft, dated Sept. 17) ; Hist. Mag., I. 260. 



September, lySo 375 

to be first put, however obvious it may seem to be. This is among a thou- 
sand other affairs with which it is the fate of Congress to be plagued to 
the exclusion of considerations of infinitely greater consequence, and 
which require immediate attention. As an individual, I wish most heartily 
that it could subside, as things of much greater moment generally do, till 
" a more convient season ". But New York presses hard for a decision, 
and I submit to your judgment whether it would not be prudent that the 
claims of Massachusetts to the lands in question should be here in readi- 
ness, lest a construction should be put on a further delay that a conscious- 
ness in the Assembly, of the state having no right in them is the real occa- 
sion of it. I mention this to you in particular, because I recollect how far 
you had gone in investigating the title. If you can be spared from the 
Assembly, I hope you will be appointed to vindicate the claim.^ 

I just now told you that the attention of Congress was called to the 
army. General Washington has written several letters acquainting Con- 
gress of the distressed circumstances of the army for want of provisions 
and particularly meat. They have several times lately, been without pro- 
visions for three or four days. They have even plundered the neighboring 
villages, and what will be the consequence of such a spirit in our army 
if it should prevail, may be easily conceived. You are sensible that the 
dependence is chiefly on the Eastern States for that kind of supply. 
Massachusetts has indeed been more punctual than the rest. The Com- 
missary General has told me that the very existence of the army has been 
in a great measure owing to the industry and care of our Committee at 
Springfield. Yet even our supplies have not been equal to expectation. 
597 head of cattle have been sent from Massachusetts to the army from 
the first of July to the seventh of September. About 200 to the posts at 
the Northward and about 200 to the French army, which last are not in- 
cluded in the supply required as our quota. Congress have pressingly 
called upon New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Connecticut for 1000 
head weekly, less than which will not be more than sufficient for the im- 
mediate demands of the army. Our quota is 285 as you will see by a reso- 
lution forwarded by this express. Besides which, magazines must be laid 
up this winter for the army next year. Indeed, my friend, we must make 
the utmost exertion in the great cause. It is now 12 o'clock, and the ex- 
press will set off very early in the morning 

436. The President of Congress to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed).'^ 

Philada. September 16, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 15. Instant, requesting the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, 
and Connecticut to furnish for the Army one thousand Head of Cattle 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 12, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 26, 27, 30, Oct. 6; also no. 253, 
note 2, 399, ante, and no. 452, note 2, post. 

[436] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 106; Pa. Arch., first sen, 
VIIL 560. 



376 Continental Congress 

weekly, which will supply the Army from the Time they begin to arrive, 
through the Campaign. 

But in the mean Time to supply the immediate Wants of the Army, 
Congress find themselves compelled to request the State of Pennsylvania 
to furnish with all possible Despatch twelve hundred and fifty one Beeves, 

Should the several States fully comply with these Requisitions, the 
Army will be well supplied with Meat, but should they fail, the most fatal 
Consequences may ensue. 

The Commander in Chief hath been exceedingly distressed at the Pros- 
pect before him respecting the Supplies of Meat, and Congress have de- 
termined to do every thing in their Power to give the needful Relief. I am 
sensible your Excellency is too well acquainted with the Distresses, and 
dangerous Consequences that must attend a starving Army, to require 
any Motives in my Power to express, for calling forth every necessary 
Exertion to prevent a Scene so calamitous. 



437. The President of Congress to the President of Delaware 

(Caesar Rodney).^ 

Philada. September 16, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 15. Instant, requesting the several States therein mentioned to furnish 
Beef for supplying the Army in Proportion as expressed in the Act. 

You will observe that three of the eastern States are requested to fur- 
nish one thousand Head of Cattle weekly. This will supply the Army 
through the present Campaign, after those Cattle shall begin to arrive at 
Camp; but in the mean Time for an immediate Supply, the State of Dela- 
ware is requested with all possible Despatch to furnish five Hundred and 
thirty Head of Cattle 

The Army have been without Meat for several Days at different Times, 
a Situation too distressing and alarming in its Consequences to be again 
suffered to take Place 

If the Requisitions contained in this Act be complied with by the sev- 
eral States, there will be no future Want of Meat for the Army this Cam- 
paign; but should they fail of a Compliance the most fatal Consequences 
must ensue 

I am therefore to request in the strongest Terms that the Number of 
Beeves required from the Delaware State may be forwarded with as little 
Delay as possible, and flatter myself that from the pressing Necessity of 
the Case, that State will without Loss of Time comply with the present 
Requisition. 

[437]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 107. 



September, lySo 377 

438. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia, Septem'r 16, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Congress have not yet come to a Single resolution Respecting Vermont, 
Though it has been five Days on the Tapis." New york Seems Disposed 
to have a Determination against its being an Independant State, and then 
to have Commiss appointed to Say whether it falls to new-york or New 
Hamps'e. General Foulsom and myself have opposed this and urged the 
appointment of Commissioners in the first Instance, both upon principles 
of policy and upon a Conviction of the want of power in Congress To 
take any other Step agreable to the Articles of Confederation. 

I Last Evening received Letters from Several Persons of note in that 
Quarter and the adjacent parts of New Hamps're Expressive of the Sen- 
timents of the people assuring me that a Division of the Grants will be 
Disagreable to all; That if Congress are Determined they shall not be In- 
dependant Seven Eights of them will Petition Congress to Reunite 
them to New Hamps're. Colo alcott of Vermont waited on me and as- 
sured me that this was the General Sentiment of the People. I shall there- 
fore be Less violent in my opposition to that Question in future. I am 
Exceeding happy to find that new york have appointed three Gentlemen 
of high Spirits and all Deeply Interested in the Event To appear as agents 
for that State breathing out nothing but Death and Slaughter against 
those people who have So Long Set their authority at Defiance and paint- 
ing the Bitter Enmity which they have Ever Discovered against the York- 
ers. To this I have Endeavoured to oppose the moderate Spirit of New- 
Hampshire; her readiness to Acquiesce in the Determination of Congress 
and Even though the Land is Clearly within her Limits to Submit to its 
being a Separate State if Congress Should find it for The good of the 
whole. I have assisted the Yorkers in Establishing the Fact, of an utter 
aversion of those people to Live under their Jurisdiction; and at the Same 
time have taken Care to mention [maintain] the Harmony which has Ever 
Subsisted between them and new Hampshire This I find is likely to have 
the Effect Intended the members begin to see that If the Lands are 
adjudged to new york the Continent must be Involved in a war to In force 
the Determination of Congress which can only be avoided by adjudging 
it to New Hamps're and I am Convinced this will finally Turn the Scale 
in favor of new Hampshire 

We have nothing new Since Genl. Gates' Defeat I have seen a private 
Letter from Genl. Smallwood giving a particular Account of the Action 
the Loss on our Side was about two hundred the Enemy's five hundred 
the Brave Marylanders after being Deserted by the militia and the Com- 
mander in Chief performed wonders, and Retired with Regularity. 
General Smallwood had not heard of General Gates when he wrote as 

UziYHist. Magashie, XXIII. 108; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXV. 
93; A^. H. State Papers, X. 375- 

2 See no. 435, note 2, ante. 



378 Continental Congress 

he had retired 200 miles from the place of Action before he wrote the 
Letter which So much frightened those who believed it of which I never 
was in the number, we have this day reced. Intelligence from new york 
that the Second Division of the French Fleet is on the Coast. I rejoice 
that Genl. Washington Gives New Hampshire Credit for Complying with 
the requisitions of Congress better than any other State I wish her to 
Continue her Exertions as the Army is Literally Starving — I fear will 
Disband we are using Every Exertion to Remedy the Evils which Sur- 
round us, but it is a very Late Hour for the Business though I hope not 
too Late. 

439. Nathaniel Peabody to Nathanael Greene.^ 

[September 18, 1780.] 
The whole of the late conduct of Congress relative to you, sir, and to 
the committee, had it appeared in any other age than the present, or in 
any other body of men than those who resort together in Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, it would have been a phenomenon astonishing to all who 
beheld it." 

440. James Duane to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia 19 Septem'r 1780. 
My dear General, 

I am to acknowledge the honour of your Excellency's favour of the 
9th Instant on the Subject of the Hospital Department, your Solicitude 
that Gentlemen of distinguished Merit should be employed is a continued 
proof of your Attention to the Publick good ; and those you particularize 
will not fail of being supported." 

We are deeply engaged on the Subjects of your Excellency's several 
Letters ; considerable Progress is made in that which is the principal the 
raising a permanent Army Congress unite in Sentiment that it is essen- 
tial, that it is the surest and the only means of producing an honorable 
Peace : to render it practicable and certain is the Difficulty. There is in 
my Mind no Question but that it will be submitted for your Opinion be- 
fore it becomes conclusive.^ .... 

1439]^ Greene, Life of Nathanael Greene, II. 339 (extract). 

2 Greene had written to Peabody Sept. 6 : " You have had your day of difficulty 
as well as I. Congress seems to have got more out of temper with the committee than 
with me ; and I am told, charge great part of the difficulties on the committee, that have 

taken place between the committee and me The committee stand fair with the 

army, and I believe with the public at large ; and bad as our condition is, I believe we 
are altogether indebted to the committee for the tolerable state we are in" {Lije of 
Greene, II., 333 ; Farmer and Moore, Collections, Historical and Miscellaneous, III. 9) ; 
see also Col. Alexander Scammell to Peabody Sept. 5 {ibid., III. 286). A sketch of 
Peabody is ibid., pp. 1-16. 

[440] '^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 92. 

- There is a letter to Mathews, Sept. 9, respecting the medical department (see 
no. 434, ante), but such a letter to Duane has not been found. 

3 Cf. no. 422, note 3, ante, and no. 451, note 3, post. Washington's reply to this 
letter, Oct. 4, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 464, (ed. Sparks), VII. 226. 



September, lySo 379 

I find with great Satisfaction that the Legislature of New York have 
fallen in with the Views of the Eastern Convention and particularly to 
strengthen the Hands of Congress, and enable them to enforce their Deci- 
sions : We can never manage the publick Interests with Success till this 
Disposition becomes general : Nor can any thing else, under the Divine 
Blessing, be necessary to give us a decided Superiority over our Enemies : 
We have now obtained military Knowledge in an eminent Degree we 
have internal Resources and Reputation abroad : we have a great and 
respectable Ally: Of what then are we destitute but Vigour and Confi- 
dence in Government, and publick Spirit in Individuals ?*.... 



441. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia Septem'r 19th 1780. 

Dear Sir, 

I do my self the honour to write your Excellency by this post, And am 
sorry to acquaint you that notw^ithstanding publick business of the most 
pressing nature is now suffering before Congress we have spent three days 
to no purpose in the afifair of Vermont and are still engaged in the same 
business and when we shall get clear of it I know not or what we shall do 
in the affair. The Yorkers push the matter almost beyond the bounds 
of Modesty. I can only say I am sorry from my heart that Congress has 
taken up the Matter by their former Resolution in the manner they have 
And let us do what we will I fear the most fatal consequences will follow 
I cannot give you particulars at this time." .... 

Congress have in contemplation to raise an Army of 32,000 Non Com- 
missioned officers and privates to be in the field by the first day of January 
next at furthest, to serve one year at least. To consist of four Regts. of 
Cavalry four of Artilery forty-Nine of Infantry and one of Artificers 
the whole to be proportioned to the several states and all the rest and 
residue of the Regts. and Corps to be reduced on the first day of January 
next, the above is the report of a Committee which is not yet considered 
and probablely \_sic^ will under go some alterations but I think the sub- 
stance will pass.^ .... 

* Respecting the efforts at this time to obtain an increase of the powers of Con- 
gress see no. 469, note 6, post. Cf. no. 402, ante. In his reply to Duane, Washington 
remarked : " I share with you the pleasure you feel from the measures taking to 
strengthen the hands of Congress. I am convinced it is essential to our safety, that 
Congress should have an efficient power. The want of it must ruin us." 

[441 ]i R. I. Arch., Letter to the Governors, 1780; Staples, R. I. in Coni. Cong., p. 313- 

2 See no. 435, note 2, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 3; also no. 422, note 3, 440, ante, and nos. 451, 479. posl. 
Cf. Cornell to Greene Sept. 10, in Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., p. 312. 



380 Continental Congress 

442. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Sepr. 19th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We are in the Labyrinths of Vermont and are also driven to be 
[sic^ contriving how to buy some Portion of that western World which 
the Big Knife pretends to give us." ... . 

443. James Madison to Joseph Jones. ^ 

Sepr. 19th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Instead of a confirmation of the good news respecting the french fleet 
mentioned in my last, I have the mortification to inform you that it is 
pretty certain that Rodney has arrived at the Hook with 12 sail of the line 
and 4 frigates.- The report however still continues that a french fleet is 
somewhere on the coast 

Yesterday was employed by Congress in discussing the resolutions you 
left with them. The first and second were passed after undergoing sundry 
alterations. The clause in the second for allowing the expence of main- 
taining civil Govt, within the ceded territory was struck out by the com- 
mittee, and an attempt to get it reinserted in the House was negatived. It 
was surmised that so indefinite an expression might subject Congress to 
very exorbitant claims. With respect to Virga. I believe that expence has 
not been so considerable as to be much worth insisting on. The principal 
expences may properly be included under the military head. The consid- 
eration of the last resolution annulling Indian purchases was postponed; 
with an intention I believe of not resuming it. It is supposed by some to 
be unnecessary, by others to be improper as implying that without such 
previous assurance Congress would have a right to recognize private 
claims in a territory expressly given up to them for the common benefit. 
These motives prevailed I am persuaded with more than the real view of 
gratifying private interest at the public expence. The States may annex 
what conditions they please to their cessions, and by that means guard 
them agst. misapplication, or if they only annul all pretended purchases 
by their own laws before the cessions are made Congress are sufficiently 
precluded by their general assurance that they shall be applied to the com- 
mon benefit from admitting any private claims which are opposed to it.' 

[442]! N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Emmet Coll., no. 528. 

2 Big Knife (or Big Knives) is an Indian name for Virginia. Lovell's allusion 
is to the proposed cession of Western territory by Virginia. In connection with the con- 
sideration of the Virginia proposition some steps were taken relative to negotiations with 
Spain respecting the western boundary and the navigation of the Mississippi, the latter 
phase of the discussion taking rise from a letter of John Jay, May 6 (Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Con-., III. 707-734). See the Journals, Aug. 14, 21, 22, Sept. 2, 6, 9, 18, 29, Oct. 
4, 6, 10, 16, 17. Cf. no. 443, post. 

The Emmet Calendar, which quotes most of this paragraph, curiously interprets it as 
meaning that Lovell was in Vermont, " contriving how to buy ", etc. 

[443)1 Library ^f Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081: Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), 
I. 51 (with omissions) ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 68 (text from Papers). 

2 See no. 430, ante, no. 463, post. 

8 The resolutions referred to are those moved by Jones and seconded by Madi- 
son Sept. 6 and referred to a committee Sept. 9. See the Journals, Sept. 18, Oct. 10, and 
no. 486, post; see also no. 422, and note 4. ante. nos. 458, 460, 477, post. 



September, lySo 



381- 



The Vermont business has been two days under agitation and nothing 
done in it except rejecting a proposition for postponing the determination 
of Congress till Commissioners should enquire into the titles and boun- 
daries of N. Hampshire and N York. Congress have bound themselves 
so strongly by their own act to bring it to an issue at this time and are 
pressed by N. York so closely with this engagement, that it is not possible 
any longer to try evasive expedients. For my own part if a final decision 
must take place I am clearly of opinion that it ought to be made on prin- 
ciples that will effectually discountenance the erection of new Govern- 
ments without the sanction of proper Authority, and in a style marking a 
due firmness and decision in Congress.* 



^ See no. 435, note 2, ante. Following is Madison's account for attendance, ren- 
dered Sept. 20: 

"Dr. James Madison Junr. in account with the Commo[n] wealth of Virginia. 

1779 Dollars 

December To cash received from the Treasury of Virginia 6666^^ 

1780 

April 7. To the moity of a draught on the Auditors for 30,000 dollars \n\ 

favor of S. C. Morris by C. Griffin and J. Madison Jr. (-15000 

June 23. To cash received from the Continental Treasury on warrant fronn 
Congress dated April 12 for 15000 dollars in favor of C. Griffin I 
and J. Madison Junr., the remainder of the moity being re- [ '^^^^ 
ceived by Mr. J. Walker 

June To one third of a draught on the Auditors for 23312 dollars byl 

Jos : Jones Jas. Henry and J. Madison Junr. in favor of Col. V 7770^ 
Balard negociated by Levi Hollingsworth J 

Augst. 30. To one fourth of a draught on the Auditors for £20,000 Vir-^l 

ginia currency by Jos : Jones, J. Madison Junr. and John Vi6666Yz 
Walker, received from Theo. Bland Junr. J 

48604^ 
Cr. 

1780 Dollars 
March 20. By ferriages in travelling to Philadelphia 122 

By allowance of 2 dollars per mile for do 520 

By expences in Philadelphia prior to fixed lodgings 320^ 

By expence of boarding from 20 of March to 20 of Septemr 213735^ 

By incidental expences for liquors sugar fruit — not included in 

board 2459 

By expence of 3 horses from 20 of March to 30 of June and of 2! g 

to the 20 of September at the continental Stables J 

By extra expences for do. during a scarcity of forage there 577 

By expence for washing 1776 

By expence to Barber 1020 

By expence in wood 605 

Sepr. 30. By allowance of 20 d'rs per day for attendance at Congress from \ gg 

the 20 of March to the 20 of Sepr. being 183 days j 

38467^ 
June 15. By cash advanced to an Express returning to Virginia 175 

38642?^ 
Ballance 9962^^ 

486045^ 
Philada. Sepr. 20, 1780 

E E 
J. Madison Junr." 



382 Continental Congress 

444. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

Philada September 20, 1780. 
Sir, 

By the Act of Congress of this Day herewith enclosed you will be in- 
formed of the Measures they have adopted for " the Removing of the 
Convention Troops to Fort Frederick in Maryland, in Case it shall be 
found necessary, and providing Magazines to supply them if removed. 

Congress have thought proper to take this Precaution to prevent any 
Embarrassment or Surprize, thoug[h] it is to be hoped there may be no 
Occasion to remove them ; but should Circumstances render their Removal 
necessary, the Governor of Virginia to whom I have transmitted a Dupli- 
cate of this Act will give your Excellency seasonable Information 
thereof.^ .... 

445. Eldridge Gerry to a Committee of the Massachusetts 

Assembly.^ 

Boston 21st S't 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

In my Letter to the General Assembly of the 14th Instant," I proposed 
to make to the Committee who should be appointed to consider it, some 
communications (respecting the Requisitions of Congress of the present 
Year for Men and Supplies), and shall now submit them to your consid- 
eration. 

By the journals of Congress of the 9th of Feby. last, it will appear, 
that they required of this state 6070 Men as the quota of 35,211 called 
for from the several States. When this Requisition was debated in Con- 
gress, they were informed, that by a late Return made to the General 
Assembly, there were 343,876 white Inhabitants in this state and that 
supposing the united States to contain but 2,400,000 free Inhabitants, the 
state of Massachusetts should be called on for 5045 instead of 6070 Men, 
as its quota of the 35,211 required for the present Campaign. It was also 
reported, that if the Inhabitants of the united States were supposed to 
exceed 2,400,000, the quota of Massachusetts would be proportionably 
less: and if the whole Number was stated as it was by Congress in the 
Year 1775, at 3,000,000 and Massachusetts was supposed to contain 431,- 
000 Inhabitants, its quota of the requisition aforesaid would be but 5095, 

[444]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, VII. 75; Arch, of Aid., XLV. 112; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. iii. 

2 The words " the Measures they have adopted for " were omitted in recording 
the letter in the letter-book. 

^ See the Jountals, Sept. 20, The board of war wrote to Governor Lee Sept. 21, 
transmitting the resolution of directions to the board in the matter, and adding : " This 
Resolution is founded upon a letter from Genl. Green containing Intelligence he received 
from New York ' that the Enemy had it in Contemplation to invade Virginia, and 
attempt the Rescue of the Convention Prisoners' " (Arch, of Md., XLV. 114). See also 
the letter from the board of war, the same day, to the officer commanding the " new 
raised" regiment of Maryland. Ibid., p. 115. 
[445]! Mass. Arch., CCIII. 116. 

2 No. 431, ante. 



September, I/80 383 

so that the State was evidently called on for 775 men more than its pro- 
portion (if we rejected the estimate made by Congress in the Year 1775) 
and for 975 Men more than its proportion (if adjusted by the estimate 
made by Congress in the Year 1775) and for 2025 Men more than its 
quota, if computed on an authentic Return of its Inhabitants, and on the 
most unfavorable Estimate (for the State) that could be made of the 
whole Number of White Inhabitants in the united States. The appor- 
tionment in the Requisition mentioned was however urged because it cor- 
responded with that of the i6th of September 1776, and this was never 
supposed to be equitable ; but was formerly objected to, and only admitted 
on the presumption that the Men would inlist for the Bounty then oflfered 
by Congress, and be no expence to the state, indeed had those bounties 
been sufficient to have filled the Batalions, the State at that Time, raising 
more than its proportion of Men must have incurred an expence by in- 
creasing the Rate of Labour, and thus have paid a considerable Tax; but 
as the State also found it indispensibly necessary to give an additional 
Bounty for raising those Men, it is evident, that the amount thereof as 
far as it respects the Surplusage of the Men so raised, if not reimbursed, 
will be a heavy and unjust expence on the State. A Motion was therefore 
made on the 4th of Feby last to Strike out the quota assigned to Massa- 
chusetts Vizt 6070 in order to reduce the Same, and the Motion was nega- 
tived as will appear by the journals of that Date. Seeing then that this 
Number would be required of the State, an addition was moved to the 
resolution of the 9th of feby that no previous apportionment of Men 
required by Congress of the several States for common Defence, he used 
as a precedent, or considered '' as an adjustment of their respective quo- 
tas " , but this was declared to be " out of order ", and a motion for the 
Yeas and Nays on the question of order was also over ruled in the Man- 
ner mentioned in my Letter to the Hon. Assembly. Congress on the 9th 
of Feby had Resolved " That the reasonable expences any State has in- 
curred or may incur by raising and having in the continental army more 
than what shall hereafter appear to be their just proportion of the Troops 
actually serving in the said army from Time to Time, shall be allowed 
to such State, and equitably adjusted in a final settlement of their accounts 
with the united States " but notwithstanding this, the States which have 
been called on for less than their quotas of Men, may and undoubtedly 
will hereafter urge, that the Number of Batalions required by Congress 
from time to time of the several States, was originally intended and ought 
to be used as a Rule for determining their respective proportions of Troops 
actually serving in the Army; and should this be the Case, Massachu- 
setts must pay the Expences of raising and having in the Army Troops 
for the Year 1780. in the proportion of 6070 to 35.211, which is evi- 
dently near 1/5 more than its quota. The expences of each State in fur- 
nishing Troops previous to the Depretiation of the Currency, partly arose 
from the Increase of the Rates of Labour and Bounties, as was before 
observed; but in addition thereto, the States are now to make good to 
their respective officers and soldiers the Deficiency of the continental 
Pay, and are thus responsible for nearly the zvhole amount thereof. Under 
29 



384 Continental Congress 

such Circumstances is it not evident, that the State exchisive of Gra- 
tuities and other Encouragements to its quota of Troops is almost at 
the whole Expence of raising and paying them, and that every Recruit, 
including his Bounty, will infer an expence on the State of at least 
150 Dollars in Specie, which on 1025 Men required more than its propor- 
tion amounts to 153,740 Dollars in Specie! 

I shall only add on this Head, that the great extent of Sea Coast which 
the State has to defend; the Difficulty it meets with in raising or other- 
wise procuring Grain for the subsistence of its Inhabitants; the Number 
of Men which it furnishes for the Navy of the united States, and the 
present Invasion of the Enemy at penobscot, are so many arguments for 
reducing its quota still lower than 5045 Men; and that the State whilst 
advancing so large a sum for raising and paying more than its quota of 
Troops is at least entitled to an assurance that " No former apportion- 
ment of Men required of several States shall be considered as in adjust- 
ment of their respective quotas or hereafter as a precedent ".^ 

When the Report for Specific Supplies was first debated in Congress, 
they referred it to a Committee consisting of a Member from each state,* 
who having altered and adjusted the Quotas, agreed to ascertain the 
Specie prices by adding 50 per Cent to the former prices of the Articles 
respectively, nevertheless a Majority of the Committee rated the former 
prices of Flower at 3 Dollars per hund, 3 reported 4^ Dollars to be the 
present specie price of that article. An objection was made in Congress 
to this part of the report and Letters were produced from some of the 
merchants in Philadelphia to prove that the former price of Flower had 
not been more than two dollars and an half per hund'd, on an average. 
A Member also from the state of Pennsylvania who was a merchant and 
then in Congress, delivered in the Current Prices for several Years pre- 
vious to the War, and made the Average to be about 18/ Pennsylva. Cur- 
rency per hundred, which is somewhat less than 272 Dollars. This being 
ascertained. It was urged that the price of Flower should be fixed at 3^ 
Dollars according to the agreement of the Committee; for as New Ham- 
shire. Massachusetts and Rhode Island were to furnish beef and foreign 
articles the latter of which would cost at least as much as would be al- 
lowed by Congress, great Injustice w^ould be done to those States by 
raising Flower above 3^)4 Dollars even admitting beef to be raised in pro- 
portion, since they could furnish very little if any of the latter, more than 
their quota, if for Instance, Massachusetts be prepared to pay 2/i3ths 
of the continental Tax, its just proportion of 103,302 barells of Flower 
and of 329,915 hundred of Beef, required by Congress, would be 15,892 
barells of Flower and 50,756 hundred of Beef, and by putting Flower at 
43^ Dollars per hund'd, Massachusetts will pay ^4 of a Dollar extra 
p. hundred, which on 15,892 barells of two hundred each is 23,878 Dol- 
lars in Specie. On the other Hand, the former specie prices of grass- 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 24 and Feb. i to 9. 

^ A committee on estimates of supplies was appointed Dec. 17, 1770. and made 
a report Jan. 12, 1780. This report was considered in committee of the whole Jan. 17 
and referred to a committee of one from each state. The latter committee brought in 
its report Feb. 9, and the measure was completed Feb. 25. 



September, I/80 385 

fed Beef was reported by the Committee to have been 37-3 Dollars per 
hundred; but supposing it ever as low as 3^ Dollars and it will amount 
to 5 dollars if enhanced 50 per Cent and only to 6^2 dollars if increased 
in proportion to 43^ Dollars for Flower : from whence it is evident, that 
as the Just proportion of Beef to be furnished by this State is 50,756 
hund'd and it was called on for only 5,244 hundred more than that quan- 
tity, all the advantage to the State of increasing the price of Beef above 
50 per Cent is 1% Dollars per hundred, which on the Surplus of 5,244 
hund'd amounts to 6555 Dollars in specie: and that deducting this from 
the 23,838 Dollars which the State looses by raising Flower, there re- 
mains 17,283 dollars in specie, which the State will be unjustly taxed by 
this Manoeuvre of raising Flower above 5 per Ct., even admitting beef 
to have been raised in proportion, notwithstanding this, the proposition 
for reducing the price of flower to 3% dollars was disagreed to, and as 
the next best Measure it was moved that the price might be enhanced to 
41/5 dollars, which is 75 pr. Ct. but this was also rejected and the price 
was fixed at 4^ Dollars, as may be seen in the journal of the 17th feby 
last inclosed herewith. It is then moved that grass-fed Beef should be 
raised in proportion to flower, and fixed to 6%. Dollars, which as was 
before observed, would be but a small Compensation for the Loss of rais- 
ing the latter : but the Motion was rejected and the price fixed at 5^ Dol- 
lars, as may likewise be seen by the journals, so that in Fact, supposing 
the former Specie price of flower to have been 25^ dollars and of beef 
3^ dollars per hund'd, the State is unjustly taxed by the resolution of 
the 25th of Feby last in the Single article of flower 21,216 dollars in 
Specie, but there being a greater objection to the Rates of the other 
Articles, a motion was made to re-commit the Report (for the purpose 
of adjusting the prices in the proportions agreed on by the Convention 
held at New Haven in Jany 1778) and was objected to in Point of order: 
in Consequence of which the Yeas and Nays were required on the ques- 
tion of order, and suppressed in the Manner stated in my Letter to Con- 
gress of the 19th of feby last.^ the real specie price of flower about that 
Time, may however appear by the inclosed Copy of a Report of the 9th 
of March last No. 11^ wherein Congress are informed by their Commit- 
tee, that they were offered 1500 barells of flower at £60 per hund'd, which 
at the Exchange then current of 60 for i was 20/ penn. Currency or 2^ 
dollars per hund'd, but to put the Matter beyond Doubt respecting the 
prices of this and other Articles I inclose for the perusal of the Commit- 
tee, the Commissary General's certificate No. 12 of the prices current on 
the nth of April last, together with an estimate conformable thereto, by 
which it will appear, that if the Rates stipulated by Congress in Feby last 
are admitted this state will be taxed for supplies then required 155,326^ 
dollars in Specie, more than it would, by adjusting the Articles accord- 
ing to the real prices given by the Commissary General. 

I have thus Gentlemen reduced my Sentiments to writing that you may 
be better able to correct such of the principles, and calculations herewith 



' No. 55, ante. See also nos. 59, 124. 137. ante. 
^ Apparently the report of Feb. 9 is meant (see 



(see note 4, above). 



386 Continental Congress 

submitted, as may appear to be erroneous if they are right. You will per- 
ceive that by the Manner in which the Requisitions for Men and supplies, 
for the present Campaign have been conducted, this State will pay a Tax 
of 309,076 2/13 dollars in specie more than its just proportion, admitting 
the several states to furnish the Men and Supplies required in February 
last, and this state to pay 2/13 of the public expence. That Tax may how- 
ever be increased or diminished according to the Variation of those prin- 
ciples, but will under any Circumstances be great, unless a Remedy is 
provided/ 

Whilst I am on the Subject, I think it my Duty to suggest to the Com- 
mittee that no provision is yet made or security given by Congress, for 
the reimbursement of the Money expended on the penobscot Expedition ; 
and that the Interest of the State requires a speedy adjustment thereof.* 

I have the Honor to be Gentlemen with the highest Esteem and Respect 

your very hum Sert. 

E. Gerry 
Hona. Comittee of the General Assembly appointed to consider the Busi- 
ness herein stated. 

446. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

„ „. MoRRiSTOWN 21. Sept. 1780. 

Dear Sir, 

In my last I inform'd you of my ill state of health, and other Circum- 
stances, but then hop'd to recover my health, and finish the report of the 
Committee, in a fortnight, which time is now expired, and I am not in a 
Situation on any account to set of¥ for home, tho, I recover my health 
daily, and hope in about two weeks from this to be able to ride so as to 
set out, by which time the report will be Compleated." Admiral Rodney 
with Ten ships of the line and a Number of Small Craft has arrived oflF 
the hook, but as Genl. Folsom who is now on his way home will be able 
to give you the Common News here it is needless for me to write. 

As to those Cabinet matters I hapj^en to be possess'd of I must defer 
mentioning till I see you which I hope will be in short time.^ 

[P. S.] Compliments to those that wish well to our Cause. 

''■ Three years after this episode Gerry made an effort to bring Congress to 
repentance, apologies, and amends, but he was only so far successful as to obtain that a 
protest from the Massachusetts legislature be presented to Congress. This was done 
June 6, 1783. Congress took no action upon the matter beyond giving a tacit consent 
that the protest from the assembly of his state should be filed with his own protesting 
letters. For this latter phase of the affair see the letter of the Massachusetts delegates 
July 3. 1783, in a succeeding volume. The whole affair is discussed at some length in 
Austin's Life of Gerry, I. 319 ct seq. A fresher discussion, by Professor S. E. Morison, 
is found in his article on Gerry in the Dictionary of American Biograp-hy, and also in an 
article by him entitled " Elbridge Gerry, Gentleman-Democrat ", in the New England 
Quarterly of January, 1929. 

[446]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II., 1779-1790. 

2 The reference is to the report to Congress by the committee at headquarters, 
recently recalled. The report, dated Nov. i, is in the Jotirnah, Nov. 16. See nos. 361, 
373. 376, 383, 394. 400, 434. 439, ante, 469, post. 

3 In A^. H. State Papers, XVIII. 713, is a memorial of Peabody, dated Mar. 26, 
1782, wherein he sets forth his services in Congress and in the committee at camp, 
" where he was detained to compleat the business of his mission, and to make a report 
thereon to Congress, till the 12th of Novr. 1780 ''. 



September, 1780 387 

447. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia Sep. 22d, 1780. 
Gent., 

This will be handed to you by Colo Blane who will lay before your 
Excellency and Honors, a Resolve of Congress, recommending to the 
State of Maryland, to furnish five hundred head of Cattle, for the imme- 
diate use of the Army. The great distress the army have for some time 
past been under, and which Still Continues for want of meat, have in- 
duced us to approve of that resolution, and beg leave to recommend it to 
your Excelly and Honors, as a measure absolutely necessary to be com- 
plyed with; and hope you will give Colo. Blane every assistance in your 
power in procuring them, if by Complying with the above resolution a 
Deficiency in the Quota of Meat heretofore required by Congress of the 
State of Maryland, should be Occasioned, we think the State will stand 
Justly excused.^ 

We have the honor to be with much esteem 

Your Excellencys and Honors, most hble Sevts. 

Dan of St Thos Jenifer 
John Hanson 
John Henry 

448. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philadelphia Septr. the 226 1780. 
Sir, 

.... Congress will be desirous of hearing from you often, the accts. 
of the redemption of the 150 Marylanders was reed, with Satisfaction." 

4471^ Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 96; Arch, of Md., XLV. 116. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 21 ; cf. no. 449, post. The letter is addressed to the 
governor, yet the text clearly indicates that it was intended also for the council. It is 
indorsed " Referred to the Committee app'd to enquire what Provisions have been pro- 
cured ". See no. 536, post. 

[448] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XVHI. 

2 In his letter to the President of Congress Sept. 5 (read Sept. 22) Gates says: 
" I have also Information on which I can depend that 140 of our prisoners going from 
Camden to Orangeburgh, have been released by Colonel Marion; and that the Guard 
of Forty Regulars, escorting them, taken by our party." In his letter of Sept. 5 to 
Governor Lee of Maryland (Arch, of Md., XLV. 79) he did not mention the release of 
the prisoners, but closed his letter thus : " You will receive under cover from the 
Governor of Virginia my letter of this Date to Congress, with the Inclosures, under 
a flying Seal, which you will be pleased to read, seal up, and forward on to Congress, as 
soon as possible, as soon as it can be done with accuracy a Return of the brave Mary- 
land troops, remaining after the Action of the i6th Ulto. shall be forwarded." In his 
letter to Governor Jefferson Sept. 9 (ibid., p. 88) he says : " Colonel Marian of South 
Carolina has surprized a Party of the Enemy, near Santee River, escorting 150 Prisoners 
of the Maryland Division ; he took the Party, and released the Prisoners ", etc. This 
letter of Sept. 9 to Jefferson reached Congress Sept. 19, three days earlier than that of 
Sept. 5 to Congress. On the same day Samuel Adams, in a letter to his wife, related the 
incident, as learned " by a letter of good Authority from Hillsborough in North 
Carolina ". 



388 Continental Congress 

We are Sensible of the many difficulties which attend you. Especially in 
a line of offensive operations, which it is the Wish of your friends you 
might be Enabled to undertake as Soon as possible. 

[P. S.] 

449. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia 23rd Septr. 1780. 
Sir, 

Your excellency will receive herewith inclosed an act of Congress of 
the 2 1st instant requesting the State of Maryland immediately to furnish 
five hundred head of neat cattle for the main army over and above the 
quantity required of them by the 25th of February last which will be paid 
for out of the new bills. 

If this recommendation be complied with it will releive the present 
pressing distress of the army for want of meat; and Congress have taken 
measures to obtain a full supply in future from the Eastern States. The 
present necessity of the army is so great that the Commissary Genl. Colo. 
Blaine was coming in person with the act enclosed but is prevented by 
indisposition.- It is hoped that no exertions v>^ill be wanting to procure 
the number of cattle requested with the utmost dispatch. 

450. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada September 24, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 19. In- 
stant,^ directing the Commander in Chief to enquire of Sir Henry Clinton 
whether a Number of respectable Citizens of South Carolina, Prisoners 
of War by the Capitulation of Charlestown have been seised upon and 
confined on Board a Prison Ship, and for what Reason 

The Persons said to be confined are, the Lt Governor Gadsden, Mr 
Edward Rutledge, Mr Middleton. Mr Haywood ^ and a Number of other 
respectable Characters 

It is desired this Enquiry may be made as soon as Time will permit 

If his Excellency Genl Washington is like to be absent any Time after 
this comes to Hand, please to forward Copies to him 

[449] iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 79; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 117. 

~ See no. 447, ante. 
[450] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 116. 

2 The resolve referred to is in the Journals under Sept. 23, not the 19th. Cf. no. 
499, post. 

3 Thomas Heyward, member of Congress 1776-1778. 



September, lySo 389 

451. JoHX Mathews to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia Septr. 24th, 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

I did myself the pleasure of writing to you a few days ago by The 
Minister of France : " since which time, the Committee have brought in 
a partial report on the affairs of the army. It has been acted upon by Con- 
gress and thus far agreed to.^ To call on the States for an army of 32,000 
men, to be in the field by the ist day of January next. To reduce the re- 
maining sixteen battalions, and all the light corps, and add them to state 
lines, so as to have no more than forty nine battalions, and out of the 
horse, to reestablish four regiments. The infantry to consist of 580 pri- 
vates, and the horse 320. The remaining 2300 to compose the artillery. 
The battalions of Infantry. Artillery, and horse, are quota'd on the several 
States, and the reduction incorporation, and filling them up, submitted to 
them altogether. The mode recommended for engaging the men is, either 
for the war, or, one year, and on the first day of every September the 
States are to be informed of the deficiencies of their quotas of men in 
order that they may fill them up by the ist of January. I stretched my 
abilities to their utmost extent, I exhausted every argument that nature, 
and my enquiries, and observations on this truely important subject, had 
furnished me with, to get the fatal alternative, " or, for one year " altered, 
thus — That if the battalions could not be compleated by the ist day of 
Deer, for the War, then (the States to be called in the most forcible lan- 
guage) to fill them up by drafts for not less than one year, from the ist 
of Jany. but if not then relieved, to be obliged to continue in the field 
untill such time as their places shall be actually supplied, by other drafts 
or enlistments for one year, or for the \\'ar. The Commander in Chief 
to be empowered to discharge from time to time, such of the men as he 
shall think proper, as their places shall be by others supplied. By this 
mode, whatever numbers are once fixed on, and got into the field, we 
should be certain of always having a permanent army and no longer be 
subject to the caprice, and intolerable delays, supineness. and negligence 
of the States. There would be an indispensible obligation laid on the 
states to relieve their annual recruits, if they did not. the fault would lay 
with them, but we would have the men, undiminished. Not as hitherto has 
been the case as soon as the times of the men expire, to be left at liberty 
to return home, and the army thus dwindle to a mere skeleton, and through 
the shameful neglect of the States, remain in this disgraceful situation, 
untill the season for operation is nearly expired. I think such a plan is 
also founded on principles of true policy: for, it would operate on the 
minds of the people especially of the monied men, as a matter in terrorern. 

[451]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Sept. 15 (no. 434, ante). 

^ The measure respecting the arrangement of the army appears to have been 
virtually completed Sept. 21, and was even entered in the journal of that day; but on 
the following morning it was resolved that the resolutions be taken off the journal 
until the committee should make a further report (see the editorial note. Journals, p. 
844). The resolutions were subsequently entered under Oct. 3. Cj. nos. 468, 471, 479, 
480, 485, 496, 501, post. 



390 Continental Congress 

As soon as they find themselves subject to a draft, (not on the spur of the 
occasion, but that it is become an established maxim, and to which they 
must be annually subjected,) it immediately becomes their interest, to 
devise some means by which they can avoid, what they will conceive to be, 
a tremendous inconvenience. The mode readily enough suggests itself 
to them, which is, by classing the people, and each class to furnish a cer- 
tain number of men. In each class, no doubt will be found a sufficient 
number of men, who will be ready to take a good bounty, rather than 
pay a heavy fine: and if they manage matters with prudence, by making 
the proper distinction in the bounties, between men for the war, and those 
only for one year, I dare say, most of the men may be got for the war: 
for the nature of man is such, that he is but too lyable to be influenced 
by the powers of that enchanting metal called gold, and there will be one 
strong incentive to their accepting the largest sum which is, the people 
have strongly imbibed a notion that the war cannot last more than a year 
or two longer, therefore I suppose they will readily enough embrace the 
old proverb, " a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush ". Much more 
may be said on the subject, but your Exc'ys experience, and knowledge 
of these matters renders it unnecessary. This was the plan Sir I proposed 
but after a very long, and warm debate, it was rejected, and what I have 
before mentioned, substituted. I am extremely anxious to have yr. Exc'ys 
opinion on this matter, therefore must earnestly request it of you. I mean 
it only for my private information, as the business is already determined, 
and I suppose will not be altered.* 

There is one objection I am aware of that is, the enormous expense it 
would create. To this I would answer, it is better at once to incur the 
most enormous expense, and let there be an end of it, than to be every year 
running into very heavy expences, to answer little, or no valuable pur- 
pose, on the contrary, rather tending to throw our affairs into the utmost 
confusion. 

The reduction of the battalions, and consequently of a great many offi- 
cers, yr. Exc'y will at once see the propriety of keeping private, until! 
finally determined by Congress ° 

I have the honor to be, with the highest Respect And the most sincere 
Esteem, 

Yr. Exc'ys most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

452. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

<^. Philadelphia 26th Sept. 1780. 

I sit down not to give You any agreable Information; but meerly to 
give You my Opinion concerning the Event of the Controversy about 

* Washington's reply to this letter, Oct 4, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIII. 461, 
(ed. Sparks), VII. 22:^. Cf. the letter to Duane of the same date (cited under no. 440, 
ante). 

^ See no. 485, post. 
[452]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 3240; Clinton Papers, VI. 254. 



September, ijSo 391 

the Grants if we push it to a Determination. It is in short this I believe 
we may carry it by the Majority of a single State. New Hampshire now 
represented by General Sullivan alone seems too favorable to the People 
of the Grants : and countenances an Idea too prevalent in Congress, that 
the dispute between New Hampshire and New York should be first setled 
by a Court of Commissioners constituted agreably to the Articles of Con- 
federation. The End in View is evident. It is to create delay and thereby 
to discourage the Subjects of our State and strengthen the Vermonteers. 
We have however gone thro' the Evidence on our part, a Portion of 
which from Mr. McKesson came just at the nick of Time. In short I am 
at a Loss what is best to be done. If we push for a determination we may 
gain it by a bare Majority ; and even this depends upon the Prospects we 
have of New-Jersey. Mr. Duane is of Opinion that Maryland will be 
with Us. I differ with him. In short it seems to be the System of the 
smaller States to compel the larger (the western Bounds of which are 
undefined) to large Cessions. This they expect to effect by embarrassing 
us with respect to the setled parts of the Country. General Sullivan is 
sick, which has suspended the Business for a few days; and I have been 
so much indisposed myself by a small fever hanging about me that I have 
not attended Congress for three or four days past. I am of Opinion the 
sooner we press the Matter to its Crisis the better For I fear the Interest 
agt. us is growing. Not that I imagine a Majority will expressly decide 
agt. us; but that it may eventually be done by procrastination.^ .... 

453. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Phila. Sepr. 26th 1780. 

Tuesday half past 1 1 o'Clock. 
Dear Sir, 

I thank you for your favor of the 226. w'ch was this moment handed 
to me by the Prest. of Congress and as the Post will leave this at 12 
o'clock I cannot give you that general information which I wish and you 
desire.^ 

I fear Gates was premature it was from his information that I gave 
you the intelligence respecting the Maryland Line. For two or three days 
repeated Accounts by psudo intelligence has been rece'd of the Arrival of 
19 Sail of the Count de Guechens Fleet at Rhode Island but as Congress 
has reed, no Official information I fear its news fabricated by Speculators. 
I am under the greatest apprehension for the French at that place.^ 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 12 to Oct. 6, passim ; also nos. 435, 438, 441, 442, 443, 
ante, and nos. 461, 473, 475, 487, 5^3, 539, Post. 

I453P Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V, Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Governor Lee's letter of Sept. 22 was evidently an inquiry concerning the situa- 
tion in the matter of supplies of clothing. See no. 454, post. Such a letter, either to 
Jenifer or to the delegates, is not found in Arch, of Md. 

3 The information obtained from General Gates to which Jenifer alludes was 
probably that in his letter of Sept. 9 to Governor Jefferson, transmitted by Jefferson to 
Congress Sept. 14. Jefferson's letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), II. 340, and Official 
Letters, II. 206; that of Gates is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 88. Cf. no 454, post. 



392 Continental Congress 

The Delegates from the Eastern States say that the meeting of the 
Congress or Convention is for the purpose of falHng upon ways and 
means to provide for the Army. I suspect something more, a little time 
will discover their design. Some late moves by Virga. seconded by New 
York has alarmed some Members of the Eastern States, and I hope will 
produce good Effects as it will probably attach them more to the Maryland 
Claim than formerly.* .... 

I am glad to hear the Merch'ts at Baltimore take our Money at 40 for 
one as it will soon in consequence thereof pass here, indeed it is at least 
50 per Ct. better than Continental. 

As my Collegues seem well satisfied with remaining here and as I am 
convinced I can be of little service I shall soon take my final leave of Con- 
gress and return to Maryland.^ 

454. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadel'a Sepr. 26th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

The interval between the coming in and going out of the post is so 
short, that we have it not in our power at this Time, to give you the infor- 
mation which you desire. We can assure you that very inconsiderable 
quan[ti]ties have been imported by the Commercial Committee; some 
Linens have from Time to Time arrived but the quality and quantity we 
shall endeavour to inform you of in a few Days, as we are at present un- 
acquainted with the amount of the returns. It has always been the object 
of Congress and the Duty of the Cloathier General to distribute the Cloth 
that is provided with impartiallity, if it has not been the case, we shall be 
able soon to give your Excellency information upon the subject. The 
present Cloathier General is a native of Maryland a man of Honor and 
a good officer and we believe " no partial distribution has been made since 
his appointment.^ .... 

Your Excellency' Letter to the Board of War we shall seal and deliver; 
and if our Exertion can avail any thing, they shall be employed in behalf 
of our gallant tho unfortunate Countrymen.* 

■* The allusion is presumably to Virginia's proposed cession of Western territory. 
See nos. 422, and note 4, 442, 443, ante, and nos. 458, 477, 486, 519, 629, post. 
^ Cf. no. 462, post. 
[454]iMd. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 97; Arch, of Md., XLV. 121. 

2 The words " we believe " are substituted for " I think I can undertake to say 
that ", erased. 

3 The letter from Governor Lee here referred to is probably that of Sept. 22 
{Arch, of Md., XLIII. 299). Cf. no. 453, ante. The clothier general at this time was 
James Wilkinson, elected July 24, 1779. In omitted passages the delegates again promise 
to transmit shortly information concerning the importation of clothing and military 
stores. This information was transmitted in a letter of Oct. 3 (passage omitted from 
no. 466, post). In Arch, of Md., XLV. 120, is a brief communication from the delegates, 
also dated Sept. 26, probably in reply to the council's letter of Sept. 19 (ibid., XLIII. 
296). 

4 The letter to the board of war, accompanying that of Sept. 22 to the delegates, 
is in Arch, of Md., XLIII. 300. The reply of the board, Sept. 26 (thid.. XLV. 120), 
explains the situation in the matter of clothing, particularly the disappointments over 
the failure of expected arrivals of clothing from France. 



September, I'/So 393 

Brigadier Smallwood has been appointed by the unanimous voice of 
thirteen States a Ma jr. General. This will give the State some pleasure 
tho' it is not all that she has a right to expect from Congress ; The Troops 
of the other States have received the Thanks of Congress for displaying 
less gallantry than has lately been exhibited by the Delaware and Maryland 
lines. ^ 

We have no intelligence to communicate. Reports prevail that the 
French Fleet is arrived at Rhode Island, but it wants confirmation. Admiral 
Rhodney is still at the Hook, and Graves is out. By the last letters from 
Camp preparations were making for an embarkation. The Conjecture 
respecting their destination was communicated to you a few Days ago.* 
We are Sir with the highest respect and Esteem 

your Excell'ys Obdt. Servts. 
Geo : Plater 
John Hanson 
Dan of St. Thos Jenifer 
J. Henry Junr. 

455. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada. September 27, 17S0. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Despatches of the 24. and 25. Instant 
which have been communicated to Congress. The latter which contained 
very unexpected Information of the black and infamous Conduct of 
Arnold was kept a profound Secret until Measures were taken to secure 
such of his Papers as could be found which hath been done, but the Ex- 
amination is not yet finished 

If any material Discoveries should be made in this City respecting this 
horrid Affair, the whole shall be communicated to you without Delay. 

And in the mean Time I wish to be informed of what particular Dis- 
coveries you may have made as particularly as may be." 

456. The President of Congress to George Washington.'^ 

Philada. September 29, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am honored with your Excellency's Despatches of the 26. Instant, 
which will be laid before Congress in the Morning. We had before re- 
ceived Intelligence from General Greene that Genl Arnold was gone over 
to the Enemy. Immediately Orders were given to search and seize his 
Papers and Effects to be found here which was speedily executed, but I 
am not yet advised of what particular Discoveries have been made." 

^General Smallwood's promotion was on Sept. 15. Cf. no. 462, post. 
° -Such a letter has not been found. See however no. 453, ante. 
[455]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 118. 

- Greene's letters were read Sept. 26 and 27. The Journals make no mention of 
the contents of Greene's letter of the 25th until the reading, Sept. 30, of Washington's 
letter of Sept. 26. See nos. 456, 457, post. 

[456] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 119. 

2 Washington's letter of Sept. 26, read in Congress Sept. 30, is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), Vin. 455, (ed. Sparks), VIL 218. See no. 455, ante. 



394 Continental Congress 

457. The President of Congress to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

Philada. September 29, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of 
Congress of the 28. Instant, by which I am ordered to transmit you the 
other Papers enclosed to which the Act refers 

The Originals were found among Genl Arnolds Papers in this City 
which have been lately seized. - 

458. Willie Jones to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Abner Nash).^ 

Philadelphia Octr. i, 1780. 
D'r Sir, 

.... Mr. Hill and myself flattered ourselves that we should have re- 
ceived, ere this, an account of the proceedings of our late Assembly, and 
their Sentiments, as well as your private Opinion, respecting the Conduct 
of Genl. Gates. From the Circumstances of his Conduct, particularly his 
rapid Retreat, and the Length of it, and some Hints in one of his Letters, 
and Strictures in others, it appears to us that Genl. Gates can no longer 
continue in that Command with Satisfaction to himself, or with a pros- 
pect of rendering essential Service to the United States. We hope your 
next favour will throw some Light on this Subject.^ .... 

Congress has recommended to the several States to make provision for 
the support of their Delegates, so that they may not draw out of the Con- 
tinental Treasury.^ The Reasons are the exhausted state of the Treasury, 
and the obvious Impropriety of allowing Delegates to draw at Will. You 
will be pleased to mention this Circumstance to our Assembly, at their 
next meeting, that some provision may be made : otherwise their Delega- 
tion may possibly be defeated [?], or at least involved in distressing and 
shameful Circumstances. 

By a Resolution of Congress it is recommended to the several States to 
surrender a part of Western Territory, to induce Maryland to confed- 
erate.* Maryland surely has great Merit in the present Contest; yet I 
think it will be time enough for No. Carolina to deliberate on the sur- 
render of Western Territory, when the States have vigorously supported 
and finally secured her in her Eastern Territory, and when they have 
moreover shewn a proper Liberality in the settlement of her accounts. 



[457]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 119. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 28 ; cf. nos. 455, 456, ante. 
[458]! From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York, Henkels, Cata- 
logue, no. 720, item 107. 

2 Cj. nos. 462, 476, post. See also Gates's letters to Washington Aug. 30 and 
Sept. 3 {Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, IIL 66, 74). A court of inquiry was 
ordered Oct. 5. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 29, and no. 459, post. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 6, Oct. 10, and nos. 422, 430, 443, ante, A77, Post. 



October, 1/80 395 

459. The Delegates of North Carolina to the 
North Carolina Assembly/ 

^ , [October ? 1780.]'' 

Gentlemen, 

We beg Leave to remind your honourable Body of the Resolution of 
Congress recommending to the [several States to make provision for] the 
support [of their Delegates. The] Resolution [was adopted because of] 
the Insufficiency of the Continental Treasury to comply with the various 
and pressing demands on it, and the Impropriety of allowing any person 
whatever [to draw] at Discretion. It is now expected [(unless indis- 
pensably necessary)] that the Delegates of no State except Georgia and 
South Carolina, shall draw from the Continental Treasury for the expence 
of their attendance. In this state of affairs it is absolutely necessary that 
some adequate provision be made for your Delegation : but as it is pos- 
sible that Disappointments may happen, in this Respect, altho' the Fund 
established [by the Assembly may] be apparently [sufficient, we respect- 
fully suggest] the propriety of authorising [the Delegates] of the State 
to draw on the Continental Treasury for their reasonable expences in 
Cases of Necessity. 

Many of the States require two, or more, of their Delegates to attend 
in Congress, yet at [the same time] authorise any one of them, in the 
absence of the other, or others, to vote and represent the State. Perhaps 
it might be expedient, in the present moment, for this State to adopt the 
same Rule; and the rather, as it frequently happens that only two Dele- 
gates are attending at Philadelphia, and one or [the other may be ill] or 
[in] attenda[nce upon a committee meeting, which] of necessity [leaves 
the State unrepresented.] 

During our attendance in Congress last Summer we expended large 
sums of Money, the greatest part of which we borrowed on our own 
Credit, as there was very little to be obtained from Congress, and our 
private funds proved insufficient, and are bound to make good the Depre- 
ciation. We found it impracticable to take Receipts for our Disburse- 
ments — it would have been an endless work — therefore we only noticed 
the gross sum we expended. 

We request [that your] honorable Body [refer this matter to] a Com- 
mittee, [to the end that provision be made] in such Manner as to you 
[may seem] just — which we are confident will be perfectly satisfactory to, 
Gentlemen, 

Your devoted Humble Servants 

Whit mill Hill 
Willie Jones 

[459] ^N. C. Historical Commission. 

2 See no. 458, ante. This address from the North Carolina delegates to the 
assembly is evidently that laid before the assembly at the session begun in January, 
1781 (see the proceedings of the senate Feb. 5, 13, and those of the house of commons 
Feb. 5, 14, N. C. State Recs.. XVII. 674, 708, 709, 755, 79i)- It is without date, but was 
probably written shortly after the passage of the resolution, although it may have been 
written after the return of both Hill and Jones to North Carolina. The former left Con- 
gress about the end of October, 1780, the latter on or about Dec. 13 (see no. 543, post). 
The document is much mutilated, and as here printed the passages in brackets represent 
the conjectural restoration of the missing parts. 



396 Continental Congress 

460. Joseph Jones to George Washington.'^ 

Dear S'r, 

The Medical Department was under the consideration of a Committee 
before I left Congress and will it is probable undergo a change that may 
curtail the number of the present appointments. Should this be the case 
and the new arrangement take place before I return (w'ch at present is 
my intention to do before Christmas) I shall recommend to the support 
of the Virginia Delegates the Gentlemen you have been pleased to men- 
tion, whose long services and well known Characters intitle them to be 
among the first ofificers in the establishment. - 

If I am not mistaken the spirit of party is much abated in Congress, 
some instances of the old prejudices and partialities that disgraced and 
must ever disgrace their councils I think I have discovered, but they are 
few, and I entertained hopes the Flame was neerly extinguished, and 
although some restless tempers, as some there are and ever will be in 
public assemblies of Men, may attempt to revive those disputes, which 
were carryed to such height between the contending Factions as to neglect 
the more important concerns of the public, there are I trust a sufficient 
number of mild spirits who will oppose and repress such dishonorable 
attempts and confine themselves to the discussion alone of such matters 
[as] Justice and the general welfare require. I am certain the important 
objects now before Congress are sufficient to engage their attention and 
employ their time without perplexing themselves by a revival of old and 
expiring controversies. It was with reluctance I left Philadelphia before 
the Report upon your Letter respecting the Army and Magazines was 
compleate and the arrangements of the Civil offices of Congress were 
digested but an apprehension that the Assembly was to meet the first Mon- 
day in October as usual and a desire of spending a short time with my 
Family before I went to Richmond determined me to set out so as to reach 
Home abt. the middle of September. I now find I might have staid a fort- 
night longer, as the Session does not commence untill the third Monday 
in this month. 

Congress having taken some steps towards compleating the Foederal 
Union which I anxiously wish to accomplish induced me to be here early 
in the Session that the Sense of this State upon that interesting question 
might be taken, that if the proposition was approved it might be divulged 
to other States without delay and Virginia being more interested than 
any other in a cession of unappropriated territory the example would not 
fail to have weight and be followed by others. We are already too large 
for the Energy of republican Government and I fear shall still be so if the 
Assembly shall relinquish their claim to the north-west of the Ohio to the 
Continent.^ I wished too to be present the beginning of the Session to 
urge the filling up our Battalions immediately and providing Magazines 

[460]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 103; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 32. 
- See no. 434, ante. 
3 See no. 422, ante. 



October, 1780 397 

in time as the ensuing Winter to the South and the approaching Spring 
to the North if our ally shall command the Water, might afford us favour- 
able opportunities of acting to advantage. But alas ! instead of the French 
commanding the Water we have the mortification to hear Rodney with 
12 Ships of the line and four frigates has arrived at the Hook. Where 
for God sake, is Ct. de Guichen with his great and formidable fleet? 
Surely not inactive. Adieu. 

Yr. aff. Friend and Humble Servt. 

Jos : Jones. 
ViRGA. Octr. [2 ?] 1780. 

461. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia October 2d 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my Last by General Foulsom the affair of Vermont has been 
frequently on the Tapis but Congress has not as yet come to any Deter- 
mination not Even to appoint Commissioners, but I believe a few Days 
more will produce Something. Vermont has put in two pleas to the Juris- 
diction, and even threatens to form an Alliance with Great Britain in Case 
Congress shall Declare them Dependant on any State. I shall from time 
to time acquaint you with the proceedings of Congress on this affair.^ 

I need not Trouble you with a particular Relation of Arnolds villany 
as you will see all the Circumstances which have yet Transpired in the 
Inclosed Gazette: our Political affairs are so Deranged as to prevent my 
giving you any Tolerable Account respecting them and was I to attempt it 
The Task would be Disagreable to me and painful to you. The members 
of Congress are mostly new and I believe in General Honest; most of 
those who were governed by Party Spirit are Recalled but I am sorry to 
say that in my opinion Greater wisdom than the present members possess 
would be requisite to Conduct or rather to Restore our publick affairs 
from that Situation into which Ignorance Treachery or Inattention have 
thrown them, our Confederation is not in force and even if acceeded to 
would be found weak and perhaps far from answering the Designs, our 
Treasury is Empty, our Credit Low, our Finances Deranged and the 
People at Large Suspicious of every Species of our paper Emissions; 
particular States and even among those who have acceeded to the Con- 
federation will comply with or Reject the Requisitions of Congress as 
their own opinion or Interest seem to Direct. Congress of Course becomes 
a Body without power and the States the Several Componant parts of a 
Monster with Thirteen heads. How we are to obtain Relief is the Impor- 
tant Inquiry. This can be Done only in one way that I can possibly Con- 
ceive which is to Call a Convention of the Several States to Declare what 
powers Congress is to possess and to vest them with authority to use 

[461]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 193; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 682. 
2 Cj. no. 452, note 2, ante, and nos. 473, 475, 487, post. 



398 Continental Congress 

Coercive measures with those States which Refuse to Comply with rea- 
sonable requisitions. Measures should be Instantly fallen upon to put an 
End to the present war ; for which purpose Aids both of men and money 
together with a strong naval force should be Demanded from France and 
Spain and we should Tell them fully our Situation and The Distresses 
brought upon us by supporting a war of six years without Aid from For- 
eign Force or Foreign Loans and that we must at Last Sink under the 
weight unless powerfully Supported by our Allies. This will bring matters 
to a point, and I Doubt not will answer the purpose of putting a Speedy 
and happy Conclusion to the present American war. 

The matter will be Debated tomorrow and I hope the most Decisive 
measures will be pursued. Spain has requested to know if we will build 
Frigates for her. this will be Determined tomorrow and I hope in the 
affirmative as it will be a means of Introducing Large Quantities of Spe- 
cie among us, which must Eventually become our Circulating medium as 
paper cannot much Longer answer the purpose, it is Easy to keep up the 
Credit of paper by Seasonable Taxes ; but to restore it to Credit after it 
has been Imprudently Suffered to Depreciate requires more than Human 
Wisdom. 

462, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of 
Maryland ( ?).^ 

Phila. Octr. 2d 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have it not in their power to do much service at pres- 
ent having neither Credit or Money, in such a distressed situation, who 
could wish to be of that body? " 

I do not know what is to be done with Gates. Our Brave Officers and 
Troops are prevented from receiving that Tribute which is justly due to 
their merit, because it can not be done through him, and to do it through 
another channel would be condemning Gates it is said unheard. As Gen- 
eral Smallwood is a Majr. General, I think the Command ought to be 
given to him The Commander in chief probably has, or soon will appoint 
a successor, for I take it for Granted that Gates will undergo a Court of 
enquiry, as to his precipitate flight.^ .... 

463. Joseph Jones to James Madison.^ 

Dear S'r, 

I thank you for your favour of the 19th ulto. and the inclosures. It was 
really a mortifying circumstance to find the French Fleet converted into 

[462]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1012. 

2 Cj. no. 453, ante. Jenifer states in the beginning of the letter that he has been 
ill for a week and will leave for Maryland as soon as he is able to travel. 

3 Cj. nos. 454, 458, ante, and no. 476, post. In the close of the letter Jenifer 
speaks of the uncertainty whether Andre will be executed or pardoned, mentions a report 
that the Spaniards have sailed from Havana with 20,000 troops for Pensacola or St. 
Augustine, and that there is no news of the French fleet. 

[463]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 108 1 ; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. 
Ford), p. 34. 



October, lySo 399 

twelve British ships of the Hne and four frigates from which nothing 
can effectively relieve us but the arrival of a superior number of French 
Battle Ships " And unless these come I fear many of our people not only 
here but in other States will entertain unfavourable opinions of the ability 
at least, if not the inclination of our Ally to give us effectual support. 
The alterations of the resolution I left are not I think material excepting 
the one postponed, not to be taken up, which I am certain will be made a 
Condition by Virga. in any Cession she may make as there are jealousies 
entertained of certain Individuals greatly interested in that question. 
Congress cannot in honor or Justice delay their determination on the Ver- 
mont dispute. Had the Territorial claims of N. Y. and N. Hampshire 
been settled in the first instance the Step of Vermont would not at this 
Day have been known, delay has given them a name and made them for- 
midable, such excrescencies should be taken off on their first appearance 
as then the work is easy and less Dangerous than when they have grown 
to a head. We know not what may be the consequences if Congress shall 
countenance by precedent the dismembering of States because the people 
blown up into discontents by designing ambitious men shall ask or demand 
it. fix the boundaries of these States and let the people who live within 
their respective limits know they are their Citizens and must submit to 
their Government. I was one of a Com : to whom the Generals long Letter 
on very important matters was referred, we had come to some resolu- 
tions before I left Congress but no Report made, pray inform me what 
has been done and whether any recommendation has gone to the States to 
fill up their Battalions immediately and lay up magazines in time. I was 
also of a Com : to arrange or reform the civil departments of Congress and 
it was in contemplation to place at the head of the Foreign affairs the Ad- 
miralty and Treasury some respectable persons to conduct the Business 
and be responsible, has any thing been done in these matters — they are 
important and should not be forgotten. We shall never have these great 
departments well managed untill something of this kind is done. I cannot 
forget Mr. L — Is ^ very candid confession respecting Dr. Franklins com- 
plaint of want of information of our affairs. Is there a Report made 
respecting the Medical departmt. and is there any hope of geting that 
branch reformed * If any removals are to take place and persons shall 
be wanting to fill the higher offices of that department there are two Gen- 
tlemen mentioned to me who from their long and fait[h]ful services de- 
serve the attention of Congress — I mean Dr. Craig and Dr. Cochran. 
Col. Mason wrote to us abt. Mr. Harrison in Case a Consul! should be 
wanting for Spain. I have since received a Letter from Col. Meade upon 

2 See nos. 430, 433, ante. 

3 James Lovell. What his " candid confession " was might be guessed from his 
general conduct of the business of the committee for foreign affairs. See, for instance, 
vol. IV., pp. 264, 265, 325, 354, and passim. 

* Most of Jones's queries are answered in Madison's reply (no. 481, post). The 
committee of which Jones was a member, to report a new arrangement of the civil 
executive departments, was appointed Aug. 29. A committee, of which he was not a 
member, to report a proper arrangement for the department of foreign affairs, had been 
appointed May 15. See no. 514. note 3, post. 

30 



400 Continental Congress 

the same subject and have assured him should any such appointment take 
place Mr. Harrison ^ should be recommended but there was no reason to 
expect this wo'd soon be the case, this reminds me of the report respect- 
ing the Mississippi — what has been done with it ? 

Has Dr. Lee made his appearance and does he attempt to revive the 
old disputes ? ® . . . . 

2d Octr. 1780. 

464. John Mathews to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 3d, 1780. 

Yours of the 23 and 29 Ulto. came safe to hand yesterday. The one 
of the 23 contains a variety of important matter, as well as its inclosures, 
which I shall now reply to. 

What am I to understand by " Genl. Greene's letter of resignation to 
Congress "'. \Yq have received no such letter, therefore, am both puzzled 
and alarmed. Pray explain this matter to me as soon as you can, until! 
when I shall feel great anxiety." Great part of your other extracts were 
new, for which I am much obliged to you. Arnold's affair rests where it 
did, when I wrote you last. We have received no further information 
respecting it. 

You ask me what is done about a P — t.^ I think of all the men of am- 
bition I have ever met with in the course of my peregrinations (which 
have not been confined within a very narrow compass) S. H. bears away 
the prize in tryumph. So far from his manifesting the least disposition 
to quit, he seemed to be highly pleased with the opinions of his 
(you may fill the space as you please) " that he had a right to set there 
for life ". This is true Republican doctrine — Ay! you may laugh, or get 
into a passion about it, but I tell you it must be so, because the Greatest 
Republican * in America said so. Damnation sieze such sycophants ! who 
will sell their consciencies to the Devil for the sake of carrying a favourite 
point. After four hours hard struggle, all we could obtain was, that all 
future P — ts, should be elected for one year only, but maugre every exer- 
tion, they obtruded their favourite upon us for another year.° Could Old 
Randolph ^ have risen from the Dead, and been in the chair, I wou'd have 

5 Richard Harrison, of Cadiz. Mason's letter to Madison concerning the appoint- 
ment is in tlie Madison Papers, dated Aug. 2. Respecting Doctors Cochran and Craik, 
see also no. 460, ante, and Jones to Madison Oct. 17, in Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 38. 

^ See nos. 481, 506, post. 
[464]! Library of Congress, U. S. R. ; Farmer and Moore, Collections, Historical and 
Miscellaneous, III. 9 (extract). 

2 See the endorsement (note 9, below). Probably Greene's letter to Congress 
July 26 and his letter to the committee at headquarters the same day are meant. See 
nos. 349, 351, ante. 

3 President. The initials " S. H.", below, are for Samuel Huntington. See no. 
417, ante. 

* The allusion is probably to Samuel Adams. 
^ See the Journals, Sept. 28. 

® Peyton Randolph, first President of Congress (1774) and again May 10-24, 
1775- 



October, lySo 401 

opposed his continuance, with the same activity and spirit, I did the pres- 
ent person, on the principles of true Republicanism, more especially when 
I so evidently saw an elevated station had made a man forget himself, who 
from being a very modest one, had so strongly imbibed the sweets of 
power, as to become a very conceited and ambitious one. Did the man 
possess abilities for the station, I could have acquiessed with a tolerable 
degree of content, but when I know he possesses no one requisite for it, 
I must confess my feelings are egregiously hurt. I think, had almost any 
other man been in his situation, when he found how extremely disagree- 
able his continuance in office was to a number of members, he would have 
made it a point to have had a new election, and taken his chance. But he 
verifyed the old proverb " a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush ". 
I have much more to say on this subject, but will reserve it for a tete a 
tete. 

I come now to the most interesting part of your letter — i. c. the open- 
ing and garbling your letters. Great God ! how humiliating is it to gener- 
ous minds, to behold the depravity of a part of thy creatures. What base- 
ness, and villany is it that some men will not descend to, to gratify the 
rancour of their damn'd black hearts. The most intimate ties are made 
to give place to this hellish principle. Friendship among men is become a 
sounding brass, or a tinckling symbol. 

If I take your meaning right, you suspect some who have professed a 
friendship for you to have been the authors of this piece of treachery, as 
black almost as the infernal Arnold's, in my opinion there is little differ- 
ence " for he that filches from me my good name, robs me of that which 
not enriches him, but is to me worse than death ".'^ My suspicions bend 
the same way yours do. But alas ! my Dear Sir, how can I trace this dark 
and rascally deed ? Do you think he, or they, will be so unguarded as ever 
to let me penetrate them ? No — No — be assured they are too hackneyed in 
their ways, their contract with the devil is too indissoluble, ever to suffer 
me to come near enough to them, even, (like Alexander) to cut the knot. 

Thus much, from my friendship — I almost blush at writing the word — 
you may rely on, That no man shall take your name in vain. 

As to " the Committee's wanting to be made Lords and Protectors ". 
I can say thus much — That by the Great God that made me ! If I thought 
I could have influence enough, to make any honest set of men, the real 
Protectors of this grievously injured people. I would harangue the multi- 
tude, night and day ! I would rush into the midnight cabals of artful and 
designing men and drag them forth to public view ! in short, what is it 
I would not do, at the hazard of my life, to save this land from impending 
ruin! I each day more visibly perceive the rocks and shoals present their 
ghastly forms to us. yet alas ! my forebodings are treated with derision, 

^ Mathews's substitution of this last line for " but makes me poor indeed " is 
probably to be attributed to a faulty memory. 



402 Continental Congress 

and our helmsmen invariably steer the same course. It will take no great 
length of time to shew what will be the event. I tremble for our fate. 

I have at last found the papers, and now inclose them. Blane has not 
had time enough to get me the returns you want, but has promissed it me 
in a day or two. 

Sullivan has shewed me the letter you allude to. I wish your remarks 
may not be verifyed: appearances almost ^ authorizes it. 

I hope your health continues to mend, and that we shall have the 
pleasure of seeing you here 'ere long. In the mean time be assured that I 
am with sincerity 

Yr. friend, and most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews ® 

[P. S.] I will thank you to forward the inclosed to Miss Livingston 

465. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Octr. 3d, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Many are mightily shocked at the West Point Plot : I presume 
you escaped that Degree of Surprise respecting Arnold's Baseness, as you 
had been prepared here on " the Com'tee for his accounts "." 

Genl. Sullivan is better able than I to tell you the State of the Vermont 
Contest. I was not in health to attend the Evening Adjournments 

466. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council.^ 

Philadelphia Octo 3d 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

.... The deficiency of Clothing, which is necessary to be made up, 
depends principally on the Supplies expected from France, which it is 

* Mathews first wrote " certainly ". 

® There is no address, but the letter bears the following endorsement, in the 
writing of Nathaniel Peabody : " Reed. Octr. 7, 1780. Ans'd the 8th short Copies of 
Greens letter to the Com'tte and his letter of Resignation to Congress, and Copy of the 
answer." 

[465]^ Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

2 See no. 180, ante. In a letter to Samuel Holten of the same date Lovell wrote : 
" Oh Doctor, I feel at this moment .... like a forlorn old cold sour Batchelor. Tar- 
tar Emetic warmed me a little but Sal Sennet has made me blue to the Fingers Ends. 
A pretty Figure of a Gentleman I am indeed to go to Congress in raw northeast drizly 
weather to contrive how to raise feed cloath and pay an Army without one dollar in the 
Treasury! Very genial Employment to be sure it will be to listen to all the minute 
Detail of the Circumstances of a black-died treason! By the Bye Doctor, you are so 
good a Soul that Altho' you have been a little perplexed about his accounts, you 
could not have thought that the honorable Gentleman would have done just so as he has 
done." Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 217. 

[466]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 100 (in the writing of Henry) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLV. 134. The letter is signed by Plater, Henry, and Hanson. 



October, ij8o 403 

more than probable will not now arrive in time, be assured we shall all- 
ways endeavour to have Strict Justice done our Troops, in the distribution 
of what Cloathing there is now on hand, and also of any that may here- 
after be procured, but as most of what is now on hand, lyes in the East- 
ern States, and will be transported to Head Quarters, it is probable the 
Army there will be first Supplied. - 

We have laid your two letters respecting General Gates's drafts before 
Congress, who have not yet come to any determination on the Subject.^ 



467. Samuel Adams to James Warrex.^ 

Philada. Octob. [3], 1780.^ 
My dear Sir, 

I have not yet acknowledged your Favor of the 17th of Septr.^ 
It is no Novelty to me to hear you expressing your well directed Zeal 
for the Safety and Welfare of our Country ; and I cannot but applaud your 
Jealousy of Injury to the Publick from a Missappli cation of the Resolu- 
tions of Congress respecting the Admission of British Effects. A Reso- 
lution is now on the Table to guard it from the Dangers which you 
apprehend.* 

I have now before me your Letter of the 17th of Septr., and I am 
obliged to you for the favorable Allowance you make for my having 
omitted to write to you lately. Without Partiality I may say, you have 
done me but Justice. And yet I would have written a Letter by the last 
post, if I could have given you any tollerable Assurance respecting your 
Affair with Mr. B. I will continue to press the Matter till it is finished. ° 



- See no. 454, ante. The omitted passage is the promised statement concerning 
the stocks of clothing on hand, etc. 

3 In a letter of Sept. 5 to Governor Lee {Arch, of Md., XLV. 79) General Gates 
had mentioned drawing drafts on the governor. The governor's letter to the delegates 
Sept. 19 (ibid., XLIII. 296) concerns these, and the order in the Journals, Oct. 18, per- 
tains to one of them. 

[467] 1 Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 207 (with the conjectural date October 6). 

2 The date Oct. 3, instead of Oct. 6, as in Adams's Writings, is here assigned 
to the letter on the basis of a note in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 139 n. 

3 So much as remains (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers) of Warren's 
letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 138. Evidently however parts of the letter to 
which Adams is replying are missing. In his letters to Warren Oct. 24 and Nov. 20 
{Writings, IV. 212. 221) he again adverts to Warren's letter of Sept. 17. 

* The reference is probably to the committee report, Sept. 29, on the petition of 
Cumberland Dugan, read Sept. 23. 

5 " Mr. B." was probably John Bradford, Continental agent at Boston. See the 
Journals, Sept. 11, 19, Oct. 9, 21; also Out-Letters, vol. II., passim. Cf. these Letters, 
vol. IV., p. 546 n. 



404 Contmental Congress 

468. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philada. October 4, 1780.^ 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of 
Congress of the 3. Instant, containing a new Arrangement of the Army 

You will please to observe, that, if in your Opinion there shall appear 
no material Objection to this Plan of Arrangement it is the Pleasure of 
Congress that the same be carried into immediate Effect/ 

Congress are extremely anxious, not only to avoid the Embarrassments 
heretofore experienced by Delays in recruiting the Army until the Open- 
ing of the Campaign ; but also to establish a permanent Army, of Troops 
engaged for the War, to consist of such Numbers as may probably be ade- 
quate to the Service, and at the same Time not exceed the Ability of the 
States to raise, recruit and constantly maintain, fit for Service. 

To accomplish this desirable Purpose, it is but too obvious that every 
practicable Retrenchment of Expences, and the greatest Oeconomy is ab- 
solutely necessary. 

Under these Considerations, having but a Choice of Difficulties, Con- 
gress have adopted the Plan enclosed, as subject to the least Objection of 
any that could be devised. Should your Excellency's Opinion coincide 
therewith, the Returns of Deficiencies in each State may be laid before 
their respective Assemblies, most of which meet before the End of this 
Month, which may enable them to facilitate the recruiting Service in 
proper Season to comply with the Intentions of Congress. 

[468]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 122. 

~ Oct. 4 Jacob Hiltzheimer, keeper of the Continental stables, presented another 
complaint (see no. 403, note 4, autc) about the shortage of feed for horses of members of 
Congress. His letter, dated Oct. 3, is in part as follows : 

" I Take the Liberty to Inform your Excellency That the Horses in my care belong- 
ing to Members of the Hon'ble the Continen'l Congress have been with out grain some 
time and now with out hay too. Some time ago I Bought Hay on Credit to the amount 
of about 20000 Dollars with a promise to pay in a short time but could Not comply for 
want of Money wherefore it is out of my Power to Purchase any more with out pay- 
ing for it at the time." 

He presents some facts respecting consumption and prices, then adds a postscript, 
" N. B. have just sent to the Forage yard for a load of Hay to serve till to Morrow ". 
The letter is endorsed, " Referred to the board of treasury who are directed to order 
the warrant in his favor to be paid". Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XH., f. 105. 
■ A warrant for 60,000 dollars was ordered Nov. 8, and one for 25,000 Nov. 15. See, 
further, the Journals, 1781, passim. 

3 Although President Huntington here speaks of the resolutions respecting the 
arrangement of the army as of Oct. 3, in the circular letter of Oct. 6 (no. 471, post) 
he refers to them as "of the 21 Ulto.". They were in fact adopted Sept. 21 and so 
entered, then held up pending a further report (see no. 451, and note 3, ante). There was 
an amendment to the measure Oct. 21, in consequence of Washington's letter of Oct. 11 
(Writings, ed. Ford, VHL 481, ed. Sparks, VH. 245). See the Journals, Oct. 16, 20, 21, 
and nos. 479, 480, 485, 496, 501, post. In Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 466, is 
"A (Calculation to shew the great difference of expense and loss sustained by keeping up 
a greater number of regiments than can be well and properly filled with rank and file ", 
etc. It relates to the acts of Oct. 3 and 21, and is in the writing of Charles Thomson. 



October, lySo 405 

469. Jared Ingersoll to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed)/ 

Philadelphia Octr. 4th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... W'ith regard to Arnold, we have very little Intelligence more 
than what is contained in the Public News-papers, his [ver]y foolish 
and impertinent Letter to Genl. Washington is in [som]e Points at large. 
Andre was detected by some Militia-Men, in a manner that does them 
the highest honor, as soon as their Names are transmitted, Congress will 
reward them in every way that is in their power." .... 

Congress have nearly finished their Arrangements for the Army of next 
year, the Expence is calculating.^ this Day we have been uncommonly 
busy on a report in Answer to a Letter of Mr. Jayes. it seems that the 
Court of Madrid oppose violently our claims of a free Navigation up the 
River Mississipi, and make that the chief pretence delaying to Conclude 
a Treaty with us. we have however determined unanimously that, we 
will not relinquish this, which we think a most important and clear Right, 
that however our Minister is at liberty to make any reasonable Regulations 
to assure the Spanish Nation that we do not wish to carry on any contra- 
band Trade to their prejudice, in the Course of the Conversation which 
Mr. Jay had with the Spanish Minister the latter mentioned with the ap- 
pearance of great Satisfaction, that he believed by the beginning of next 
year, they might be able to lend these States forty thousand pounds, the 
naming such a pitifull Sum, the strange objections about the Mississipi 
and some other parts of the discourse by no means seem flattering.* the 
Spanish Minister has also proposed, and that we shall take into Consid- 
eration tomorrow, a Contract for the building of Frigates and other Ves- 
sels for the Court of Madrid.^ After finishing this business, we shall 
immediately enter on the Report of the Committee of Ways and Means. 
we have it in Contemplation to desire the States to enable Congress to lay 
some general Imposts, that may furnish us with a Revennue and which it 
might be difficult for the States to do separately, this however is but a 
Scheme in Embryo, what will finally be thought of it I do not know.* 

[469]! N. Y. Hist. Soc.. MSS. of Joseph Reed, vol. VI. 

- See nos. 455, 456, ante. 

3 See no. 468, anle, and no. 471, post. 

* See no. 406, note 3, ante ; also the Journals, Oct. 4, 6, 16, 17, and no. 494, post. 

^ See no. 470. post. 

'^ See nos. 402, 440, ante. The committee of ways and means, often called the 
committee on estimates, or the committee of estimates and ways and means, was appointed 
Aug. II. Some resolutions of the tenor here indicated, offered by Robert R. Livingston 
Aug. 22, were referred to that committee, and at the same time Livingston was added 
to the committee. In the Journals under Oct. 3 is an undated " Report of the Com'ee for 
encreasing the powers of Congress — Applications to the State Legislatures", drawn by 
Livingston, but the character of the report definitely suggests that it belongs not here, but 
about the middle of June, when such propositions were under discussion. See nos. 262, 
264, ante. At all events, Livingston had left Congress about the end of September, as had 
Sherman, another member of the committee, and Duane and John Henry had been 
chosen (Oct. 2) in their places. The committee of ways and means made various reports 
from time to time, but this phase of the business appears to have been turned over to 
the committee appointed Nov. 7 to prepare a plan for arranging the finances, etc. An 
undated report, essentially embodying the Livingston resolutions, is printed in the 



406 Continental Congress 

Inf [or]mation has been received this Day from one of our Captains just 
returned from his Captivity at New-York, that the British have deter- 
mined to exchange no more Sailors, but oblige our Seamen to serve on 
board their Ships of War 

470. Theodorick Bland to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia, October [5 ?] 1780. 
Sir, 

Some overtures having been made to congress, through Mr. Jay, our 
commissioner at the court of Madrid, for building frigates in America 
for and on account of his catholic majesty; and the proposals having 
been referred to the admiralty to confer with the navy boards of the 
eastern and middle districts, and obtain from them estimates of what 
would be the cost of a frigate of forty guns; and there being no navy 
board in Virginia, it was moved in congress by the delegates from that 
state, that the admiralty should also lay before congress estimates of the 
cost, etc., of building such frigates in Virginia, in which it would be 
proper to specify the terms and the time it would take to complete one or 
more such frigates. We have thought it proper to inform you thereof, 
that proper persons may be employed to make out such estimates for gov- 
ernment, in order that they may be given in to the admiralty, to report 
upon to congress, as we are not willing that such lucrative and desirable 
contracts, the execution of which in the end must be attended with so 
many advantages, should be lost to our state, and engrossed by others, 
already so far advanced before us in the establishment of a marine. This 
estimate, transmitted as early as possible, will put it in the power of the 
delegates from Virginia to press its being transmitted to our commissioner 
at Madrid, with the estimate from the other states. And the subject itself, 
together with a speedy compliance, we have no doubt will strike you in 
the same important light in which it has us.^ .... 

Journals under Nov. 8 (it is not however, as there stated, in the writing of James Madi- 
son, but in that of John Henry), and another, an impost measure worked out in detail 
and drawn principally, it appears, by Sullivan, was presented Dec. 18. This measure wras 
debated Dec. 22, taken up again Jan. 18, 1781. and debated almost every day until 
Feb. 3, when a resolution was adopted calling upon the states to vest in Congress the 
power to lay a five per cent, impost duty. See especially Sullivan to Weare Nov. 15 
(no. 514, post) ; cf. nos. 480, 481, post. For proceedings on the matter of estimates and ways 
and means see the Journals, Aug. 11, 22. 26, 30, Oct. 2, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12, 16, 21, 23, 25, 
26, 27, 28, 31, Nov. 4, 8, 16. 17, 20, 21, 22. Of especial importance vras the measure 
adopted Nov. 4 calling on the states for specific supplies. A circular letter to the states, 
to accompany these resolutions, was adopted Nov. 9. See also the Jonrftals, Oct. 21, 
Nov. 7, 8, and nos. 490, 503, 506, 507, 512, post. 

[470]'^ Bland Papers (1840, ed. Charles Campbell), II. 34. 

2 According to Ingersoll, Oct. 4 (no. 469, ante), the question of building frig- 
ates for Spain was to be discussed Oct. 5. The Journals do not however contain any record 
of the consideration of the subject; neither is there any reference to it in the letter to 
Jay, Oct. 17 (Journals, pp. 935-937)- Cf. ibid.. May 28, 1781 (response to Jay's letter of 
Nov. 6, 1780), in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 1 12-150. 



October, ij8o 407 

471. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

(Circular) 

Philada., October 6, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 21. Ulto, containing a new Arrangement of the Army. Special 
Reasons have delayed the Sending of it forward to the several States until 
this Time.^ 

By this Arrangement the Number of Battalions is greatly reduced, and 
of Consequence many of the Officers now retained in the Service must 
retire for the present ; but after just and equitable Compensation is made 
to them, the Saving of Expense will be very great. 

Congress are extremely anxious, not only to avoid the Dangers and 
Embarrassments heretofore experienced by Delays in recruiting the Army 
until the Opening of the Campaign ; but also to establish a permanent 
Army, of Troops engaged for the War, to consist of such Numbers as 
may be adequate to the Service, and at the same time not exceed the Abil- 
ity of the States to raise and support, and constantly recruit so as to keep 
up the Number. 

It is recommended to the States in the most pressing Manner to have 
their Regiments completed and in the Field by the first Day of January 
next at farthest. The Commander in Chief will cause immediate Returns 
to be made of the Deficiencies of each State according to this Arrangement. 

You will observe Sir, that the respective States are to select from the 
Line of the Army the Number of Officers to command the several Regi- 
ments to them respectively assigned ; taking Notice that no new Appoint- 
ment is to be made of higher Rank than Lieut. Colonel Commandant, 
for substantial Reasons supposed to be known to all the States. But the 
first and immediate Object is to complete the Regiments to their full Num- 
ber of non Commissioned Officers and Privates ; which is recommended 
in the most pressing Manner as of the greatest Importance.^ 



[471P Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 123; William L. Clements 
Library, Qinton Papers (to Governor Trumbull) ; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers, 
Xin. 141 ("Duplicate"); N. J. State Lib.; N. H. State Papers, VIIL 873; Clinton 
Papers, VL 278. 

2 See nos. 451, note 3, 468, note 3, ante. The resolutions sent out with this circu- 
lar letter to the states bear the date Sept. 21 and are certified by Secretary Thomson. Cf. 
nos. 479, 480, post. Oct. 18 Washington despatched a circular letter to the several states, 
setting forth " the present state of the troops " of each, frankly pointing out the serious- 
ness of the situation, and strongly appealing to the states to take speedy measures to 
comply with the requisitions of Congress. Texts of the letter are in Clinton Papers, VL 
309; Mass. Hist. See., Collections, fifth ser., X. 206. See, further, nos. 485, 491, 496, 
501, post. 

3 The copies of this circular letter which were addressed to the Eastern states 
were in the mail intercepted by the British Oct. 20. See nos. 480, note 7, 508, post. 



408 Continental Congress 

472. John Mathews to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia Octr. 6th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Congress having Ordered a Court of inquiry on the conduct of Majr. 
Genl. Gates as Commander of the southern army, and directed your Ex- 
cellency to appoint an officer to that command, I am authorized by the 
Delegates of the three southern states to communicate to Your Excellency 
their wish that Majr. Genl. Greene may be the Officer appointed to the 
Command of the southern department, if it would not be incompatible 
with the rules of the army - 

I have the honor to be with the highest respect and the most sincere 
Esteem and regard 

Yr. Exc'ys most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

473. James Duane, Notes of Debates.^ 

In Congress Fryday Evning 6th Octobr 1780. 
Notes of the Debates on the Claim of Vermont 
Motion Resolved that " 

Huntington Cont^ That if the Resolution should pass it woud deprive 
the new State of an Opportunity of supporting their Claim. That he un- 
derstood they had many things to insist on in favour of their Indepen- 
dancy ; That an ex parte hearing woud be unjust ; That it was true they had 
notice and he wished they woud have submitted their Claim to Congress ; 
but as they had rejected our Authority we ought not to decide against 
them ; That Commissioners ought to be appointed by Congress agreeable 
to the Laws of New York and New Hampshire and the Vermonteers called 
upon to support their Claims before them : and then Congress might de- 
termine the Cause.* 

Col. Bland That he never coud agree to the Resolution moved for. 
It was an indirect and unfair manner of deciding the Question. It woud 

[472] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

- See the extracts from letters of Pettit, Biddle, and Richard Claiborne to Greene, 
in Life of Greene, II. 367-375. The court of inquiry was ordered Oct. 5. Concerning the 
appointment of Greene to the Southern command see no. 498, note 2, post. 

[473]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, VI. 453. 

- The motion is not recorded by Duane, but it was doubtless that of Madison, 
Sept. 16. See no. 452, note 2, ante, and nos. 475, 487, 513, 514, 527, 531, ^39, post. 

3 The names of the speakers are written in the margin of the manuscript opposite 
their respective remarks, but opposite Huntington's remarks is a list of all the speakers, 
including some whose remarks are not recorded. This list, except " Huntington Cont ", 
was evidently written after Huntington's remarks had been recorded, and " Hon'l Messrs " 
written against the entire list. The marginal notation as it stands reads thus: " Speakers: 
Hon'l Messrs. Huntington Cont Bland Virg Maddison Virg Hovvly Georgia Ingersole 
Pens. Matthews S. Car Henry Maryl Van Dyke Del Bee S Carol." 

* The speaker was evidently Samuel Huntington. Cf. no. 487, post. 



October, 1/80 409 

deprive the Vermonteers of all future opportunity of Vindicating their 
Independance. That they had been grievously oppressed by New York, 
their Persons imprisoned and their Land seized ; and had a Right to In- 
dependance. That New York had proved that New Hampshire had no 
Title and New Hampshire that New York had None; That therefore it 
belonged to Neither: That the Charter to the Duke of York comprehended 
New Jersey and Delaware and parts of Connecticut and Pensylvania and 
coud not be admitted to establish a Title ; That there were several indepen- 
dant Nations besides Vermont in the Bounds of the United States ; the 
Cherokees Creeks etc. That 

He therefore moved that the Resolution under Consideration shoud be 
postponed to make place for another which he moved, to witt, the People 
of Vermont declared an Independant State. But he was not seconded.^ 

Mr. Maddison. Expressed his surprize that the Motion shoud be repre- 
sented as unfair or indirect. That he intended it to bring the true Ques- 
tion before Congress; for that if the District in Question was compre- 
hended within the Jurisdiction of one or more of the United States, it 
must necessarily follow, that the Inhabitants coud have no Right to set 
up an independant State. That it had been clearly proved to lie within 
New York or New Hampshire; for as these States were bounded upon 
each other there coud be no Room between them for another Jurisdiction. 
That Congress by the original Union of the States must have a Superior 
deciding ( ?) power over the states and that ^ 

Mr Howly. That Gentlemen had not touched on the true Grounds 
which ought to decide the present Question. The Right ought not to be 
considered ; it was premature and tho' much might be said upon it, at this 
time it was improper. The Expediency of a Decision in the critical Situa- 
tion of our Affairs ought alone to be the Basis of the determination. He 
then insisted that it was no time to controvert our Jurisdictions but to 
oppose their common Enemy. After expatiations on this Topic, he said 
that he must make some Remarks on the Right. That the people ought 
to be considered as direlict for New Hampshire had given up and aban- 
dond them. And that the King of Great Britain had no power without 
their own Consent to annex them to New York. That they never did 
acquiesce under that Government. That the Crown of England coud not 
like an arbitrary German prince make over his People as if they were a 
Flock of Sheep. That New York did not begit the Inhabitants of the 
Grant: that they had treated them cruelly imprisond their persons and 
seized their Lands ; that they had a Right to become Independant on the 
same principles which had Authorized these States the [to] shake off the 
British Yoke. 

Mr. Ingersole That ^ 

5 See no. 475, post. 

^ Following the word " Congress " in the last sentence the words " having the 
Rights of peace and war coud not and a " are erased, and the words " by the original 
Union of the States" inserted. After the words "must have a", " Controuling " is 
erased. Duane probably first erased "coud not" and started to follow "having the Rights 
of peace and war " by " and a Controuling power ", etc. After the word " .Superior " 
the jine has been so obliterated by a fold in the manuscript as to make the reading largely 
conjectural. Cj. no. 440, ante, and no. 475, post. 

^ Ingersoll's remarks are not recorded. 



410 Continental Congress 

474. The President of Congress to the Governors of Maryland, 
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York.^ 

Philada., October 7, 1780. 
Sir, 

I am directed by Congress to inform you that a Letter hath been re- 
ceived from the Commander in Chief at Head Quarters, representing that 
" the Army must again be reduced to Extremity for Want of Flour ex- 
cept a Supply should arrive in a few Days ". It is therefore the earnest 
Request of Congress that what remains of the Quota of Flour from your 
State may be sent on with all possible Despatch. 

[The same to Delaware, except the last sentence, which is as follows :] 
As the Quota expected from the State of Delaware has not yet been for- 
warded, it is the earnest and most pressing Request of Congress that the 
same may be sent on with all possible Despatch.^ 

475. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

[October 7, 1780.]" 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday I wrote to your Excellency by Mr. Ray. As I then led you to 
expect Congress went in the Evening upon the Subject of Vermont and 
altho' there was a great disagreement in Opinion the Debates took a 
Turn ^ which coud not have been looked for and clearly satisfied me that 
several States were disposed to support the Independance of our revolted 
Citizens. The Deleg[ate]s of Pensylvania act under the Influence of 
Instructions from their Legislature requiring them to consent to no Act 
of Coercion agt any people friendly to the Revolution nor, to sufifer at this 
critical conjuncture the Time of Congress to be taken up by the Concerns 
of any particular State. General Cornel the Delegate from Rhode Island 
has declared that many of the principal People of that State and the Offi- 
cers and Soldiers of their Cont. Bat.* have accepted Grants under the as- 
sumd State. It is even affirmed that the Governour is one and that he 
has desired the Delegates to take Care of his Interest. General Cornel 
has candidly confessed that he cannot Vote agt the Independ. of Vermont 
because it woud in effect Vacate those Grants. The Delegate from Dela- 
ware who did not hear a Word of the Evidence pronounced his opinion 

[474] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 83; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 125 ("To Governors Clinton, Livingston and Lee and Presidt. Reed"); 
Arch, of Md... XLV. 138; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 583. 

2 The resolve respecting Delaware was passed Oct. 5, that respecting the other 
states Oct. 6. 

1475]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 233 (draft). 

2 The date of this letter is assumed from the fact that it was written the day 
after "Congress went in the Evening upon the Subject of Vermont", and from the 
statement concerning Blands motion, which, according to Duane's Notes of Debates, 
Oct. 6 (no. 473, ante), was made that day. Clinton's reply, Oct. 29, is in the Duane 
Papers, V. 239; Clinton Papers, VI. 345. 

3 The words "most injurious to New York" are here erased. 
■* Continental Battalion. 



October, lySo 411 

clearly that Congress coud not interfere. Some other Members doubted 
their own Authority.^ Col. Bland a new Member from Virginia bluntly " 
proposed a Resolution that Vermont shoud be declared independant tho 
his colleagues are of a different opinion ; ^ nor was he seconded. 

Nothing therefore is to be expected from Congress. The Embarrass- 
ment of our publick Affairs and the bold Declarations of the Vermonters 
that they have allies and can make a separate peace are not I presume 
without Influence on this Occasion.^ But the acts of our Antagonists and 
the shameful prostitution of the disputed lands to gain a party in some 
of the States have in my Judgement no inconsiderable weight. 

I am of Opinion that our Legislature must depend on their own Wis- 
dom to manage this unhappy Business. I refer you to Mr. Knolton who 
has acted with the utmost firmness, Diligence and propriety for further 
Information. 

The Time of my returning from Congress swiftly approaches merely 
for want of a supply of money to defray necessary Expences. I feel my- 
self Hurt to be obliged to mention this subject again. But it is necessary 
that I may not be censured. 

4/6. Willie Jones to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Abner Nash).^ 

Philad. Octr. /th. 1780. 
D'r S'r, 

.... Congress yesterday ^ resolv'd that Genl. Washington order a 
Court of Inquiry on the Conduct of Genl. Gates as Commander of the 
Southern Army; and that he appoint an Officer to take that Command, in 
the Room of Genl. Gates, until the Inquiry shall be had.^ .... 

477. Joseph Jones to James Madison.^ 

Spring Hill 9th Octr. 1780. 
Dear S'r, 

I think you acted very prudently in declining to press on the part of 
Virginia the Resolutions I left for the Consideration of Congress,^ had 

5 Cj. no. 487, post. 

^ The initial letter is plainly " p ". nevertheless it is believed that Duane meant 
to write " bluntly ". For Bland's remarks and his motion see no. 473, ante. 
^ Cj. nos. 443, 473. ante. 
8 Cj. no. 461, ante.. 
[476]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1184. 

2 The resolve was on Oct. 5. 

3 Jones repeated this statement in a letter to Governor Nash Oct. 10 {N. C. 
State Recs., XV. 113). In that letter he remarked: "I wrote to you fully on the ist 
Inst., and another short Letter subsequent per favour of Mr. Stanley." The first letter 
referred to is no. 458, ante ; the second evidently this letter of the 7th. He further 
remarked : " It was yesterday reported that eleven Regiments had embarked at New 
York, bound into Qiesapeak Bay. Had I not the utmost Confidence in the consummate 
Virtue and Wisdom of Genl. Washington, I should murmur that greater Reinforcements 
have not been detached from the Grand Army to march to the Southward." 

[477]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. 
Ford), p. 30. 

2 See nos. 422, 430, 443. 458, ante, 486, post. 



412 Continental Congress 

I been present I should have done the same as I had no intention when 
they were offered that Virginia should appear anxious about them what- 
ever my opinion might be as to their propriety or Justice. I meant to leave 
them to the Candor of Congress and to those impartial reflections which 
ought ever and upon such great questions I trust will generally govern 
their Councils. I wished also to feel the pulse of that Body upon these 
points and to know the reasons that governed their resolutions, that if the 
resolutions were any of them rejected and the ground upon which they 
were overruled good, the Assembly of Virga. might in their deliberation 
on the subject perhaps be influenced by like considerations. I thought I 
could discover a strong propensity among some of the members to give 
independence to the people of Vermont. This affair ought to be a warn- 
ing to Congress how to act in similar situations in future — To be remiss 
and indecisive upon such pretensions as these serves only to support and 
not discourage the Claimants. It does more, it shews the weakness or 
wickedness of Government and must ultimatly produce dishoner and con- 
tempt. I have sent forward your Letter to the auditors and inclosed my 
account whereby the balance due to me is £3000 which I have directed to 
be applied to your use and requested the money might be forwarded to 
you as speedily as possible as I well knew you wanted it.^ .... Have 

s Madison's account for services in Congress will be found under no. 443, ante, 
note 4. Below is Jones's account, rendered Oct. 7. Concerning the account he remarks 
further in his letter to Madison: 

" The fourth of the eight thousand pounds drawn for is included in the three thousand 
pounds, and so I have informed the auditors ; so that when Meade's orders are paid you 
must take on my account two thousand pounds. Out of Mrs. House's account of 8000 
some odd dols. is to be deducted what I advanced for wine — 5 .?. hard money overpaid 
at the former settlem't and the money advanced by me for the family, the amount of 
which I gave you in the first instance and Mrs. Trist in the second." 

Following is the account (Library of Congress, Virginia. Aliscellaneous) : 
" Dr. Joseph Jones in account with the Commonwealth of Virginia 

1780 To one third of a draught on the Auditor for 23312 dol's by J. 

June Henry J. Madison and J. Jones ._^ 2331. 4. 

To one fourth of a draught on the Auditor for £20.000 — by J. Madi- 
son J. Walker Theo. Bland and J. Jones 5000. o. 

To Bal 3079- 8. 9 

£10410. 12. 9 
£ 

To ^ of 2 Warrants for £4000 ea 2000. 

Balance as above 30/9- 8. 9 

Due J. Jones Esq 1079. 8. 9 

N. B. The draught of 23312 dol's was in favor of Col. Bland negociated by Levi Hol- 
lingsworth. I signed two other draughts just before I left Philadelphia for 
£4000 each to Geo: Mead and Co. (I think) one fourth of which I am to be 
charged with when paid as Mr. Madison who furnished me with great part 
of his Cash received by Col. Bland to enable me to discharge my accounts 
before I came away is in my absence to receive the money for his reimburse- 
ment but the 2000 '/. will not be sufficient. I request the balance of my account 
may be remitted to him as I am certain he must soon want the money if he 

is not already disposed for it 

Jos : Jones 



October, 1/80 413 

no reasons been assigned by the Minister for the disappointments respect- 
ing the expected reinforcement — if there are any that are worthy notice 
I should be glad to be furnished with them that I may do Justice to the 
good intentions of France and to their exertions in the common cause 
which some are but too apt to suspect upon the present occasion and 
though I am not among the number I must confess I am at a loss how 
fully to satisfy the doubts of some and to silence the insinuations of others 
who ground their observations upon the transactions of the present year 
and particularly the promised reinforcemt. I have mentioned this matter 
in Confidence to you that if you think it proper you may take occasion to 
intimate to the proper persons how much it would contribute to the satis- 
faction of the Friends of the alliance to be able to give some satisfactory 
reasons for our disappointments not only of the aid to come to the Conti- 
nent but of our expectations of advantages to be obtained over the Enemy 
by the combined Forces in the W. Indies — in short their inactivity there 
as well as in Europe. These I know are delicate matters but they are such 
as we ought to know as well for our future government as for silencing 
those who throw out insinuations injurious to France.* .... 

478. Whitmill Hill to Thoaias Burke.^ 

October 9, 1780.^ 
.... I have no particular matter to engage your attention now ex- 
cept our wretched prospect of succeeding in our great Enterprise, and for 
a moment view this Continent contending with the most powerful people 
on Earth, without one Shilling of Money in the Treasury, no public 
Magazines of Provisions, Forage, etc., laid up for the Army, which dur- 
ing this Campaign have been ten times without Bread, and as often with- 
out one mouthful of Meat, notwithstanding there is a great plenty in the 
Country; in fact, we have nothing to buy it with but Certificates issued 

Cr. 

1780 By Board lodging washing etc. for self and one Servant from 23d 

April to 7th of September 7162. 19. o 

By expcnces of four Horses part of the time and three the re- 
mainder 1862. 3- 9 

By Cash advanced on Express. 175 dol's 52. 10. 

By allowance for traveling to and from Philadelphia 480 miles at 
2 dol's per mile is 960 dol's 288. 0. 

Ferriages going and returning 217. 0. 

By allowance of 20 dol's per day from 23d April to 7th Sepr. is 138 

days — 2740 dol's 828. o. o 

£10410. 12. 9 

Octo'r 7th 1780. 

E Exd. Jos : Jones 

Delegates in Congress £10358. 2. 9 

Contingent for Express 52. 10. - 

£10410. 12. 9" 
* See Madison's replv, no. 490, post. 
[478] 1 ^V. C. State Recs., XV. 91. 

2 This is a continuation of a letter the earlier part of which is undated, though 
probably written about the first of the month. 



414 Continental Congress 

by the Commissary, etc. Of these the people are quite tired, and when it 
is to grow better I know not, as I am very apprehensive the new Emission 
will not have a Circulation when the attempt is made. Are you not 
alarmed at our Situation? Must confess I am exceedingly. Perhaps it 
may arise from my natural Timidity, but the more I reflect on our affairs 
the more gloomy prospects throw themselves within my View. Amidst 
all our domestic Inefficiency, our Allies appear to be at least inactive ; the 
Armament sent to our Relief has been blocked up in Rhode Island ever 
since their Arrival ; the British, by the latest accounts, keep the command 
of the channel, having, by putting to Sea early, prevented the junction 
of the combined Fleets; and, notwithstanding the very great suf>eriority 
of the combined Fleets in the Wt. Indies, they have been hitherto inac- 
tive, and at last dwindled to nothing. In short, I know not what is to 
become of us. 

I observe with pain the Restrictions you are obliged to make on Genl. 
Gates' Conduct, and have since the recpt. of your Letter prevailed on Con- 
gress to direct Genl. Washington to order a Court of Enquiry into his 
Conduct and to send a proper Officer to succeed him. I don't know yet 
who it will be, but have some Expectation it will be Green. ^ .... 

479. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia loth October 1780. 
My dear General, 

Yesterday I had the Honour of your Excellency's very friendly Letter 
of the 4th Instant for which be pleased to accept my Warmest Thanks. 

Before this reaches your Hands you will have received the new Ar- 
rangement of the Army, submitted, as it is, to your Opinion it is only 
to be considered as an Essay open to such Alterations as you may Suggest. 
The Idea of a Majority of Congress was clear that it would be too hazard- 
ous to risk the Defence of America on the practicability of drawing an 
Army for the War into the Field by the first of January: the Alternative 
therefore, as you will find it guarded, was thought necessary tho' All 
admitted a permanent Force to be most desirable. I saw and explained the 
danger of an alternative however cautiously expressed. The States may 
think they do enough if they comply with either of the injunctions: and 
while Men who make Arms a profession, have a prospect of being an- 
nually retained, for high premiums, they will hardly tie themselves at once 
for the War. 

In the original proposition there was another Alternative — for the W^ar, 
or for three years, besides that which gives your Excellency so much and 
such just apprehension. This last was rejected by a majority, perhaps 
unfortunately as in the opinion of many it strengthened the Reasons for 
the annual supply by drafts. I do not think it too late to correct this Error 
if pointed out with the Force that every thing falls from your Pen. The 
manner of Reduction is I am confident liable to great objection, and I 

^ See no. 472, ante. 
[479]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks). 
III. 113. 



October, lySo 415 

have no doubt but you will suggest a Rule or principle as seniority or any- 
thing you may think better, which will avoid the difficulty you suggest and 
meet with Approbation; for I do not conceive that a single Member will 
be tenacious of the provision on this Article Indeed I am persuaded that 
your Excellency's Representations on this and every Subject will have as 
much Influence as you can wish, and that on this particular Occasion 
nothing but a clear conviction of impracticability will induce Congress to 
overrule your opinion." 

A false Estimate of the Power and Perseverance of our Enemies was 
friendly to the present revolution, and inspired that confidence of success, 
in all Ranks of people, which was necessary to unite them in so arduous a 
Cause, you cannot forget the Opinions which were current on this Floor 
at the first and Second Congresses and how firmly they established this 
Error, We seem to part with it with Reluctance ; it still hangs heavy upon 
us : and has produced the Indecision the Expedients and the Debility of 
which you complain. I hope Misfortunes and Distresses will at length 
rouse us to just Sentiments and vigorous Exertions ; and with your Ex- 
cellency I pray God that the fatal Delusion which has marked our Con- 
duct may end here 

I am much obliged to your Excellency for your Account of the Inter- 
view at Hartford; and beg you to believe that no Man can be with greater 
Affection and personal Estachment, than I am 

My dear General Your most Obedient and very humble Servant 

James Duane. 

480. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, October 10, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do myself the honour to write to your Excellency by this day's post; 
and when I reflect that I have been honoured by only two letters from you 
since I arrived at this place, I fear my scrolls have been disagreeable, but 
shall continue them until I am informed. 

The arrangements of the army hath passed in Congress in the same 
form I mentioned in my last.^ So far as respects the reducing officers is 
referred to General Washington for his opinion on the mode proposed 
before it will be published. So far as it respects the number of troops 
and time of service for the ensuing year, is ordered to be sent to the re- 
spective states which I apprehend you will receive before this will reach 
you, by which you will see our quota is five hundred and eighty non- 

2 C/. nos. 422, note 3, 440, 451, ante, and nos. 480, 485, 496, 501. post. See also 
the Journals, Oct. 21. 

[^SQ]'^New York Royal Gazette, Extraordinary, Oct. 25, 1780; Pub. Rec. Office, 
A. W. I. 139:44 (so in Stevens's Index; the letter could not however be found under 
that reference) ; R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780 (copy) ; Staples, R. I. in 
Cant. Cong., p. 314. 

2 No. 441, ante; cf. nos. 451, 468, 471, ante, and nos. 485, 491, 496, 501, post. 

31 



416 Continental Congress 

commissioned officers and privates. I trust the State will have no objec- 
tion to the number, and I flatter myself they will take measures to have 
the quota compleated for the war, and in the field by the time limited at 
least it is my most earnest wish ; and I hope to be so happy as to have the 
Honourable General Assembly to concur with me in sentiments. 

Congress is busily employed in committee and otherwise, in reducing 
the public expences and devising ways and means for raising money and 
supplies, and preparing an estimate of the national expence for the year 
ensuing.^ 

The affair of the Hampshire grants is yet before Congress undeter- 
mined, and I am not able to say positively what will be done, but have 
reason to believe Commissioners will be appointed agreeable to the Con- 
federation to enquire into and settle the claims between the States of New 
York and New-Hampshire, and report to Congress, After which it is 
probable the Independence of Vermont will be taken into consideration.* 

Congress have ordered an enquiry to be made into General Gates's con- 
duct during his command to the southward, and that he be suspended from 
his command until such enquiry be made; and directed General Wash- 
ington to send a Major-General to take the command of the Southern 
army. 

Your Excellency was pleased to inform, in your letter of the 25th of 
July, that the General Assembly had, at their last session, adopted the 
resolution of Congress of the i8th of March last, and fixed sufficient funds 
for the redemption of the States quota. ^ I expected the act would have 
been sent forward long before this, but as it hath not come to hand, I 
wish to know the reason that I may be able to answer Congress when I 
am called upon which hath been done often. I have not the least doubt but 
it hath been kept back upon just principles and I wish the prospect of the 
new bills having a quick circulation, was greater than I have any assur- 
ance of in those States that have received them. 

Congress last week compleated the system of the Hospital department, 
and made choice of the necessary Surgeons, Physicians and Hospital offi- 
cers, by which means more than fifty Surgeons, etc. have gone to the right 
about by the number being lessened by which means I am sure much 
money will be saved, and I trust the sick will be better taken care of.® 

I have the honour to be with every sentiment of respect and esteem, 
your Excellency's most obedient humble servant, 

EzEKiEL Cornell. 
His Excellency William Green, Esq.'^ 

^ See no. 469, note 6, ante; cf. nos. 481, 514, 529, post. 

* See nos. 473, 475, ante, and nos. 487, 513, 509, post. 

^ See no. 382, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Sept. 30. 

■^ This letter was in a mail intercepted by the British at Stratford, Conn., on the 
right of Oct. 20. See the Journals, Nov. 2, Dec. 12; also no. 471, ante, and nos. 500, 508, 
509, post. Another mail was captured at the end of November. See nos. 514, 518, 550, post. 



October, 1780 417 

481. James Madison to Joseph Jones.^ 

Philada. [October 10, 1780.]^ 
Dear Sir, 

I received yesterday yours of the 2d inst : ^ Some of the questions men- 
tioned in it I anticipated in my last. The clause of the resolutions you left 
on the table relating to Indian purchases is still undetermined. Many at- 
tempts have been made to bring the Vermont dispute to an issue, but the 
diversity of opinions that prevail on one side and the dilatory artifices 
employed on the other have frustrated them. All the evidence has been 
heard and a proposition for including it within the jurisdiction of some 
one of the States debated for some time, but the decision was suspended.* 
An arrangement of the Army founded on G. Washington's letter, has 
passed Congress and is now with the Genl. for his observations on it. It 
includes a recommendation to the States to fill up their quotas.' No 

[481]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 (addressed to him at Fredericks- 
burg) ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 60; Writings of Madison (ed. Hunt), I. 91. 

2 In the Madison Papers (as also in Writings, which uses the same text) this 
letter is given the date " November, 1780 ". The letter is actually undated, but was evi- 
dently written shortly after Oct. 6 and certainly before Oct. 16. For instance, it was on 
Oct. 6 that the Vermont discussion took place, and it was on the same day that the 
medical officers (Doctors Shippen, Craik, and Cochran) were elected. _ On the other 
hand, Washington's observations on the army measure, for which Madison says Con- 
gress was waiting, were received Oct. 16, and it was on the same day that the committee 
which was preparing the explanatory letter to Jay brought in its report (the instruc- 
tions had been adopted Oct. 4). Moreover, Madison's letter to Edmund Pendleton 
Oct. 10 {Writings, I. 73) contains essentially the same news as in this letter to Jones 
and very much in the same language. It is also to be remarked that Madison was accus- 
tomed to write to his Virginia correspondents on Tuesdays (with occasional varia- 
tions), the day being determined by the arrival and departure of the post. See, for 
instance, the letters of Oct. 17 and 24 (nos. 486, 490, post). It may therefore be confi- 
dently assumed that this letter was written Tuesday, Oct. 10. 

On the back of this letter (outside) is the following brief message: "Sir, I have 
the pleasure to inform you that an express is just arrived fr'm Richmond w'h the 
news of an Action on the 7. Inst, between Col. Ferguson of the British w'h 1400 Regu- 
lars and Tories, and 1600 No. Carolina Militia commanded by five Colonels, _ it was 
very obstinate, lasted 47 Minutes the Enemy were defeated with the loss of their com- 
manding Offi[cer] 150 killed 810 take[n] Prisoners, w'h several [hjundred Stand of 
Arms. I am S'r Yrs. W. S." 

" W. S." has not been identified. His message was evidently placed upon Madison's 
letter at some point during its passage southward, probably in Fredericksburg. In his 
letter to Madison Oct. 24 {Letters, ed. Ford, p. 38) Jones remarks: "I presume the 
post carried you the account of our success against Ferguson's party by a body of 
North Carolina militia. It is said the news came to our Governor by express from 
Genl. Gates. From Richmond Genl. Muhlenberg communicated the intelligence by 
express to Genl. Weedon; but no doubt the Governor has given the President fulHnfor- 
mation. Our account was that Ferguson and 150 of the enemy were slain, 810 prisoners 
with a large number of arms taken." 

General Weedon (as Jones indicates farther on in the letter) was at the time in 
Fredericksburg, and the express mentioned by W. S. was no doubt that from Muhlen- 
berg to Weedon (see Walker to Weedon, Oct. 24, no. 490, note 2, post). The first 
news of the battle of King's Mountain appears to have reached Congress through Gates's 
letter of Oct. 12, transmitted by Jefferson Oct. 15, and read in Congress Oct. 23. 

^ No. 463, ante. According to Madison's weekly schedule of letters to Jones 
there should be a letter of Oct. 3, which is probably the one he refers to as " my last ". 
A letter of that date to Jones is missing, although there is one to Pendleton {Writings, 
I. 72), to whom Madison almost uniformly wrote on the same day on which he wrote 
to Jones. 

* Cf. nos. 473, 475, ante, and no. 487, post. 

5 See no. 468, note 3, ante. 



418 Continental Congress 

arrangement of the civil departments has taken place. ^ A new medical 
system has been passed. Shippen is again at the head of it. Craig and 
Cochran have not been forgotten." The instructions relating to the Missis- 
sippi have passed entirely to my satisfaction. A committee is now pre- 
paring a state of the reasons and principles on which they stand.^ 
Lee has not yet arrived.'^ 

482. Charles Thomson to John Jay.^ 

Philad. Oct. 1 2th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I have been anxious with respect to your being regularly in- 
formed of what is passing here. Many things have happened since you 
left us, of which you ought to be acquainted. I perceive the Minister of 
Spain is desirous to know the state of our finances. They have undergone 
a considerable Change, since your departure, particularly with regard to 
the money or paper bills heretofore emitted for the purpose of carrying 
on the war. On this Subject though I can explain myself to you, it will 
be no easy matter for you to give a satisfactory Account to people in 
Europe who are entire strangers to our paper money. And yet this ought 
to be done to prevent the ill impressions that may be made by the clamours 
of disappointed men, who hoped to accumulate mountains of wealth from 
our misfortune. Congress, having before your departure resolved not to 
emit a greater quantity of Bills than 200 millions Dollars, and having, in 
order to stop a farther depreciation and fix the value of that Sum, settled 
the mode of redeeming it by annual assessment for eighteen years, found 
themselves under a necessity to call upon the States to raise by taxes the 
Sum of Fifteen Millions a month in order to carry on the war.' But as 
the legislatures were slow in raising the taxes, and the demands of the 
Public were pressing, the people found they were solicited to sell before 
the want of money urged them ; and consequently foreseeing that their 
taxes would be heavy, every one determined to ease himself and make his 
own particular burden as light as possible by raising the price of Com- 
modities wanted. The result of this was, that the money depreciated more 
than ever, and the monthly Assessments when paid in were found to be 
no wise adequate to the public demands, as every thing wanted for the 
army was, by the month of January, raised to double the nominal price of 
what it was in the month of October when you left us. The Merchants 
and Traders, who dealt in foreign articles and who are always watchful 
to secure themselves, taking advantage of the depreciation raised the price 
of their commodities to an enormous degree, so that the Commonwealth 
lay like a Ship stranded, whose mariners instead of exerting themselves 
to save her were wholly employed in securing to themselves as much of 

" See no. 463, note 4, ante. 
"^ See nos. 434, 440, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 22, Sept. 3, 29, Oct. 4; cj. nos. 406, note 3. 469, ante, and 
nos. 519, 522, post. 

® See Jones's inquiry, Oct. 2 (no. 463, ante). 

[482]! N. Y. Hist Soc, Collections: Rev. Papers. I. 31. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. i, 3, 8, Oct. 7, 1779. 



October, 1780 419 

the Cargo as possible, leaving her to the mercy of winds and waves. In 
order to supply the wants of the Army, which could not be provided for 
by taxes. Congress in the month of February called on the several States 
for specific supplies of provisions and forage.^ But. before these could 
be brought in, such advantage was taken of the public wants, which were 
wholly supplied by purchase on Credit, that the nominal debt of the Con- 
tinent was increased almost beyond calculation. Of this you will easily 
judge, when you are informed that in the month of March Commodities 
were sold in the market at Philadelphia at four times the price they were 
in the month of September. In short a Continental Dollar was valued at 
no more than a penny half penny, and in many instances not more than a 
penny, so that the depreciation was fluctuating from 60 to 90 for one, and 
no body knew where it would settle. Upon this our enemies took Courage 
and flattering themselves that Congress must sink under these embarrass- 
ments, they set every engine to work to continue and increase them, by 
counterfeiting the Currency, multiplying their emissaries to decry its 
credit, tampering with our army and at the same time prosecuting the war 
with a greater degree of vigour than they had done from the commence- 
ment of it. To the honor of our country. I must inform you that history 
cannot produce such instances of fortitude, patience and perseverance as 
were exhibited by our virtuous army. Though exposed to hunger and 
nakedness amidst the rigours of a most inclement winter they struggled 
through with unparalleled firmness, and notwithstanding the tempting 
bribes and offers of the enemy, and the incredible hardships our Soldiers 
sufifered. the desertions were comparatively few. Congress finding it 
necessary, in order to baffle the designs of the enemy and curb intestine 
avarice, to adopt more decided measures, resolved on the i8th of March 
to call in, by taxes in the course of one year, and burn all the paper bills 
heretofore emitted to the amount of 200 millions dollars, and in lieu 
thereof to issue ten millions new money, which was to be issued as fast 
and no faster than the old was brought in. That is to say for every 20 
Dollars of the old money paid into the treasury, one dollar of the new 
emission was to be perfected and lodged there for the purposes of the war. 
It was further resolved that in the payment of Taxes Gold and Silver 
might be received at the rate of one for 40, at which rate also the new 
money was to be received, by which means its value was fixed, and those 
who had amassed large quantities of the old paper were disappointed in 
their hopes of converting it into gold, dollar for dollar. Congress pro- 
ceeded farther and fixed the value of the Certificates given for money 
loaned from Sept. 1777, to March, 1780, rating the value of the conti- 
nental money on every day between those two periods that the lender 
might receive the value of the money lent, both principal and Interest, 
and that the public might not be loaded with a debt for which they had 
not received an equivalent. For it was judged to be contrary to every rule 
of right and justice that the landed interest, which is the principal ob- 
ject of taxation should be loaded with the burden of paying ofif a Cer- 
tificate for instance of 200 Dollars which was procured with the price of 

3 See especially the Journals, Feb. 25, 1780. 



420 Continental Congress 

three bushels of wheat or a bushel of salt and sometimes for less, with 
that number of silver dollars, worth in reality from 60 to 100 times the 
value of the money lent. And yet this must have been the Case had Con- 
gress persisted in the mode of redemption adopted in 1779. These regu- 
lations were deemed so just and equitable that the people acquiesced and 
the States have generally enacted laws conformable thereto. By these 
means the debt incurred by a war of six years was fixed at about one or 
two and twenty millions of dollars — a war which has cost our enemies in 
the same time upwards of Sixty millions pounds Sterling. I ought to have 
observed to you that out of the ten millions, issued in lieu of the 200 mil- 
lions which were ordered to be paid in by taxes and burned, congress as- 
signed six millions to the States to enable them to purchase the specific 
Articles required of them, reserving four millions for paying the Army 
and defraying the expenses of transportation and other incidental charges. 
But while these measures were in agitation and before they could be car- 
ried into execution, our enemies pressing on the war with vigour, Congress 
found themselves exceedingly straitened for want of money and were 
from necessity forced upon a measure which I fear will give you and 
our other ministers in Europe some trouble : I mean that of drawing 
bills here.^ .... To our want of money may be ascribed the Enemy's 
success in Carolina. For although Congress had timely notice of Sir H, 
Clinton's intentions last fall and notwithstanding his tedious passage and 
the slowness of his proceeding after his arrival, owing to the losses he had 
sustained by a violent storm on his voyage, yet for want of money Con- 
gress could not forward with sufficient dispatch the succour intended, and 
consequently the Communication between Charlestown and the country 
was cut off and the enemy had time by regular approaches to force a 
surrender.' .... 

I suppose you will be informed, through another channel, that after the 
surrender of Charlestown, Mr. Laurens returned to Philadelphia and for 
some time took his seat in Congress, and after a few weeks Stay he em- 
barked for Holland on his first appointment. You will also without doubt 
hear of Mr. Searle's embarking for Europe.^ The design of his going is a 
profound secret; but it is conjectured that he is sent on some business by 
the Council of this State. I am mistaken in the Character of the man if 
his business and mission remain long a secret after his arrival. 

483. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^■y Philadelphia October [17 ?] 1780. 

Your Excellency's Letter of the 2. Instant addressed to the Delegates 
of Connecticutt hath been received. I am also honored with your favor of 
the Same Date 

* See nos. 305-309, ante. 

^ Thomson here relates at some length the principal events of the war during 
the year past, particularly the Southern campaign, and also recounts the Arnold episode. 

® See no. 309, note 2, ante, and Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 399, 514, 532, 625, IX. 
62, 311, 367, 519. 564, 589. 

[483]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M.H.S.), XIII. 49; Library of Congress, 
Force Trans., Trumbull, XIII. 49. 



October, 1780 421 

Why Commissioners have not already been sent by the Board of Trea- 
sury to settle Accounts in the late Commissary's Department, I am not 
able to say. Two additional Chambers of Accounts have been lately ap- 
pointed, more especially for that Purpose. I believe they will soon enter 
upon the Business." 

A Committee have reported that the first thursday of December be set 
apart as a Day of Thanksgiving and Prayer, but their Report hath not 
yet passed in Congress. 

Judge Sherman, thro' Want of Health hath been obliged to leave us 
sooner than I expected. B. Huntington Esqr. and Myself will be released 
of Course the last of this Month, if the last Appointment and Commis- 
sion does not arrive by that Time 

The Treason of Benedict Arnold hath been the Topic of much Conver- 
sation, and many of his scandalous Transactions are brought to Light 
that were before concealed. The Papers enclosed will give some Infor- 
mation on that Subject. The Proceedings against Major Andre who was 
executed as a Spy are ordered to be published and now in the Press, which 
will give some further Particulars of Arnolds Conduct 

By our last Accounts from the Southward a Party of the Enemy had 
advanced as far as Charlotte No. Carolina ; tho' their Force is but small, 
our Army had not been so collected as to make effectual Resistance. There 
appears such a Dissatisfaction to the Southward respecting the Conduct 
of Genl. Gates since the unfortunate Event of the 16. of August, which 
is commonly the Consequence of a Defeat that Congress have found it 
necessary to order a Court of Enquiry respecting his Conduct, and di- 
rected the Commander in Chief to appoint another Officer to take the Com- 
mand in that Department in the mean Time.^ 

484. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(WiLLL\M Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 17th, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the 4th Instant, 
by yesterdays Post, with the inclosed Newspapers containing the Act of 
the Hon'e the General Assembly for funding the Money to be emited per- 
suant to the Act of Congress of the i8th of March. 

The act of the General Assembly is refered to the Board of Treasury. 
As soon as the Money is struck I shall endeavor to forward it to the State, 
without loss of time. How soon that business will be accomplished I am 
not able to ascertain, but fear it will be some time. 

You may depend on my best endeavors to obtain a grant of money for 
the State, and I wish I could say that I expected success in the business, 

2 See the Journals, June 12, 13, July 31, Aug. 28, Oct. 2, Dec. 12. The "late 
Commissary " was Joseph Trumbull. Concerning the settlement of his accounts see vol. 
III., p. 450 n., vol. IV., pp. 126, 142, 195. 

3 See no. 472, ante. 

[484]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 112; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 315. 



422 Continental Congress 

But when I consider the large sums due to the States of New York and 
New Jersey and the late applications made by them to Congress for relief, 
and that they received for answer that it was inadmissible even to give 
them a draught on the Loan office for a part of the four tenths in their 
own states, I think I am not warranted to give you any encouragement 
that the request will be granted in our present distressed situation. At the 
same time I could wish to have an exact account of the Money furnished 
by the State to the D. Q. M. General as I am confident no grant can be 
obtained on general principals. 

Necessity obliges me to hint to your Excellency that my circumstances, 
for want of cash are not altered for the better, since I mentioned that sub- 
ject before. I do not complain but submit my case to your own feelings 
and rely on the Justice of my Constituents for relief. 

Our affairs at the south wear at present a gloomy aspect. The Enemy 
have by the last official accounts Marched in force into North Carolina, 
and taken Post at Charlotte, and I fear (by the complexion of affairs) 
soon to hear they have nearly possessed themselves of that State. General 
Gates hath lost all confidence with the people in that Quarter and in a par- 
ticular manner, with General Smallwood, who is the Next in command. 
General Washington has not informed Congress of the officer ordered to 
take the Command of the southern Army." I wish it soon to take place 
for at present you may depend all is in disorder and the Utmost confusion. 

P. S. — I received a large packet from Virginia inclosed to your Excel- 
lency, containing sundry Acts passed in that State, which I do myself the 
Honour to forward by this day's Post. 

I have also Inclosed two News papers containing a particular detail of 
Major Andre's conduct, and the infamous Arnolds Address, to which is 
added another prepared for the press by Mr. Secretary Thompson. Major 
Andre's Trial is now in the press; as soon as published I will do myself 
the Honour to enclose one to your Excellency.^ 

485. John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 17th, 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

At the time I wrote to you respecting that part of the system for the 
army that had been agreed on by Congress, I had despaired of its' being 
submitted to your opinion. I had moved for it, but my proposition was 
rejected, on a principle, that the whole should go together. We have re- 
ceived your Exc'ys sentiments on this very important subject such as I 
evidently foresaw would be the result of your serious consideration. Your 
observations are incontrovertible, and unless Congress are so bigoted to 
the Idol they have set up, and are determined to reject every principle that 
can have the least tendency to invalidate the foundation on which it is 

- See no. 472, ante. 

3 See Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XVIII. 1236. 
[485]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 118. 



October, 1780 423 

erected, they must ultimately adopt the plan you propose. No other, I am 
convinced, can ever answer our purposes. But even in this case a most 
tremendous inconvenience arises for here is the month of October better 
than half spent, and probably before Congress come to a final determina- 
tion, November will be arrived, and then there remains only two months, 
for prosecuting this great work. The time is certainly too short for it's 
completion. I consequently dread the arrival of the first day of January. 
Had Congress put this business in the train that was proposed early in 
Septr. so much precious time would have been saved, as, in all probabil- 
ity would have given success to the plan. However, we must now use our 
best endeavours to put things on as good a footing as the nature of the 
case will admit of. Yr. Exc'ys letter of the i ith inst. is committed to the 
same Committee who brought in the former report, together with that 
report, but nothing is, as yet, done in it. 

My plan respecting the annual recruits was only meant to render the 
system as useful as possible, for if an alternative must be admitted into it, 
we should endeavour to derive every possible advantage from it. I there- 
fore thought it best to have the power to detain the men, and take our 
chance for it's success, rather than that they should at all events be at lib- 
erty to disband themselves at a certain day." 

Your Exc'ys appointment of Genl. Greene to the command of the South- 
ern army has given general satisfaction. To the five Southern States, I 
know it has given the highest satisfaction. 

486. James Madison to Joseph Jones.^ 

Philada. Oct. 17th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

The Post having failed to arrive this week, I am deprived of the pleas- 
ure of acknowledging a line from you." 

Congress have at length been brought to a final consideration of the 
clause relating to Indian purchases. It was debated very fully and par- 
ticularly, and was in the result lost by a division of the house. Under the 
first impression of the chagrin I had determined to propose to my col- 
leagues to state the whole matter to the Assembly with all the circum- 
stances and reasonings of the opponents to the measure. But on cooler 
reflection I think it best to leave the fact in your hands to be made use of 
as your prudence may suggest. I am the rather led to decline the first de- 

~ Concerning the measure for the arrangement of the army see nos. 451, 468, 
471, 479, 480, ante, and nos. 491, 496, 501, post. Washington's letter to Congress Oct. 
II (see no. 468, note 3, ante) was committed Oct. 16. For the action of Congress upon 
it see the Journals, Oct. 20, 21. One provision which Washington had insisted upon in 
his letter of Aug 20, which was the basis of the army arrangement, was half-pay to 
the officers for life. Congress failed to accede to his recommendation, but in his letter 
of Oct. II he again earnestly besought them to make this provision, not only as an act 
of justice to the officers but as a measure of true economy. See nos. 491, 493, 501, post. 
[486]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 108 1 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 79; 
Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 53. 

2 A letter the same day to Edmund Pendleton {Writings, I. 81) contains a 
similar statement, followed by a recital of sundry items of news, most of which is also 
found in the letter to Jones. 



424 Continental Congress 

termination because I am pretty confident that whatever the views of par- 
ticular members might be it was neither the wish nor intention of many 
who voted with them to favor the purchasing companies. Some thought 
such an assurance from Congress unnecessary because their receiving the 
lands from the States as vacant and unappropriated excluded all individual 
claims, and because they had given a general assurance that the cession 
should be applied to the common benefit. Others supposed that such an 
assurance might imply that without it Congress would have a right to dis- 
pose of the lands in any manner they pleased and that it might give um- 
brage to the States claiming an exclusive jurisdiction over them. All that 
now remains for the Ceding States to do is to annex to their cessions the 
express condition that no private claims be complied with by Congress. 
Perhaps it would not be going too far by Virginia who is so deeply con- 
cerned to make it a condition of grant that no such claim be admitted even 
within the grants of others, because when they are given up to Congress 
she is interested in them as much as others, and it might so happen that 
the benefit of all other grants except her own might be transferred from 
the public to a few landmongers. I cannot help adding however that I 
hope this incident in Congress will not discourage any measures of the 
Assembly which would otherwise have been taken of ratifying the Con- 
federation. Under the cautions I have suggested, they may still be taken 
with perfect security.' 

Congress have promoted Col. Morgan to the rank of a Brigadr. on the 
representations in favor of it from Govrs. Rutlidge and Jefiferson and 
G'l Gates.* The latter is directed to be made a subject of a Ct. of Enquiry, 
and G'l Washington is to send a successor into the Southern department. 
The new arrangement of the army sent to the Genl. for his revision, has 
brought from him many judicious and valuable observations on the sub- 
ject which with the arrangement are in the hands of a Committee.^ .... 

[P. S.] A letter from the Continental Agt. at Statia just reed, by the 
Commercial Committee reduces the capture of the B. fleet by Spaniards 
almost to certainty.® 

487. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philda. Oct. 18, 1780. 
The business of Vermont stands suspended on account of the necessary 
provisions for the army and other pressing and indispensable calls for 
the attention of Congress. It shall be resumed and a decision procured 
the first opening. The sentiments of some States are clearly influenced by 
personal and private interests, not, I believe, of the delegates, but of their 

3 See the motion of the Virginia delegates Sept. 6 ; also the Journals, Sept. 9, 18, 
Oct. 10; also nos. 422, 426, 430, 442, 443, 458, 477, ante, and nos. 489, 519, 629, post. 

■* See the Journals, Oct. 13; cf. nos. 317, 321, ante. 

^ See no. 485, ante. 

^ In a similar postscript to the letter to Pendleton mentioned in note 2 the 
words " at Statia " are printed " as stated ". See no. 506, note 4, post. 

[487]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. III., p. 355 (extract). 



October, 1780 425 

principal friends. Connecticut I am sorry to count among the number, 
as to this period a majority of their delegates were clear to decide on the 
claims of the Vermonters, which they seem now to evade.^ 

488. Willie Jones to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Abner Nash)/ 

Oct. 1 8th, 1780. 
D'r Sir: 

I wrote to you of the ist Oct. and loth," to which I refer. The Reso- 
lution of Congress, directing Genl. Washington to appoint an officer to 
take the Command of the Southern Army instead of Genl. Gates, was 
immediately sent to Head Quarters, but the General has not informed 
Congress of his proceedings thereupon, nor can I advise you who will be 
appointed to that Command. Genl. Gates sent us dispatches three or four 
days ago, advising that Ld. Cornwallis had penetrated our State as far 
as Charlotte. These Dispatches were immediately forwarded to the Com- 
mander in Chief, and I have some small hopes that he will be thereby 
induced to detach some troops to the Southward, perhaps Lee's Corps — 
for every Idea of acting to the Northward is now laid aside. However, I 
am not sanguine in this Expectation. We have Reports every day of Rein- 
forcements going from N. York either to No. Carolina or Virginia, but 
nothing which can be depended on. I hope both those States will consider 
it as a thing certain that Reinforcements will be sent from New York in 
the course of the ensuing winter. 

The News papers will inform you of the Capture of the Et. and Wt. 
India Fleets outward bound. A Letter to the Commercial Committee 
gives a more authentick account 

I hope to leave this place in three weeks, but this depends on Remit- 
tances from Carolina, for I have been long out of Cash. 

489. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, October 24th, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

I do myself the honor to inclose to your Excellency the proceedings of 
a Board of General Officers on the case of Major Andre, a veiw of the 
title of a tract of Country called Indianna, and a resolution that passed in 
Congress on Saturday last. Together with this day's paper. 

The Indiana affair is a matter of great consequence, the state of Vir- 
ginia hath undertaken to vacate the title made to the grantees and take the 

2 See nos. 473, 475, ante, and nos. 513, 5i4, 5^7, 53L 539- Post. 
[488] liV. C. State Recs., XV. 121. 

2 The letter of Oct. i is no. 458, ante ; that of Oct. 10 is in N. C. State Recs., 
XV. 113. He speaks therein of the court of inquiry on General Gates's conduct, of the 
execution of Andre, etc. See also a brief letter from William Sharpe to Thomas Burke, 
Oct. 13, ibid., p. 119. 

[489]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors. 1780, p. 114; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 316. 



426 Continental Congress 

land to themselves, which proceedings gives much uneasiness to the origi- 
nal proprietors as it is a Country of immense value and they have made 
applications to Congress for relief who in my opinion, have little to do 
in the affair but both parties have their advocates." 

I shall make no Comment on the Resolution of Congress, as my senti- 
ments will appear by the yeas and nays ^ at the same time I wish nothing 
therein contained may in the least operate to the retarding of the recruit- 
ing service. You will also see the Regs, are augmented, which was occa- 
sioned by Genl. Washington informing Congress that he had been obliged, 
in his late Conference with the French gentlemen at Hartford to fix on a 
number of men for the next Campaign equal to what is now called for, 
and that Estimate was sent to France 

On Thursday last a letter from Arthur Lee was read in Congress, the 
subject matter was taken up and all the old members appeared perfectly 
acquainted therewith tho' not fully agreed. I must Confess I am not able 
as yet to find the right side of the Question if there is one but I am sure 
there is a high Quarrel which at present I wish to have no hand in but it 
appears a winter's work is cuting out I hope it will not opperate to the 
procrastination of business of greater moment. I shall do myself the 
honour to enclose your Excellency a Coppy of Mr. Lees letter in my next.* 

- Memorials of the proprietors of the Indiana and Vandalia tracts were pre- 
sented to Congress Sept. 27 and Oct. 14. Later these land companies came into special 
prominence in connection with the question concerning the Western lands. With regard 
to the proposed cession by Virginia see no. 486, ante, and no. 519, post. 

3 The resolution of Saturday, Oct. 21, to which Cornell refers was doubtless that 
pertaining to the army. See no. 485, note 2, ante, and no. 501, post. 

* Arthur Lee's letter, dated Oct. 17, is in the Journals, Oct. 19, except that the 
postscript is there omitted. The whole (erroneously dated Oct. 7) is in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., IV. 85. The committee to whom the letter was referred brought in a 
report Oct. 30, but it was not acted upon until Dec. 2. Cj. no. 506, post. The same day 
on which Cornell was writing, Lee wrote to Count Sarsfield : 

" M. de la Luzerne I hear has conducted himself perfectly free from party. I am 
Eorry I cannot say as much of M. Marbois, who seems closely knit with the remnants 
of the Deane faction, tho' they were dismissed from Congress for their conduct in that 
affair, and are I verily [believe! confirmed and dangerous tories. 

" In a few days the recall of Dr. Franklin will be moved for in Congress, but how it 
will be decided is very doubtful, not for want of an almost universal persuasion of his 
unfitness and misconduct, but there is an apprehension it will be disagreeable to the 
court." Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 32, vol. II. (extract) ; cf. no. 420, note 
5, ante. 

To James Warren, Lee wrote, Oct. 30 : "I am in hopes of settling my Affairs with 
Congress without the disagreeable necessity of a public Appeal. I find Congress much 
disposed to attend to public business, and avoid disputes ; a laudable disposision and worthy 
of being cultivated, tho' my Arch-Enemy Mr. Duane avails himself of it to prevent my 
having full justice, which Congress, but for the fear of his exciting new discord upon 
it, seem perfectly inclind to do me" {Warren-Adams Letters, II. 142). See the letters 
of Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee, Aug. 31 and Oct. 29, in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 
196, 206. 

Samuel Holten wrote to Elbridge Gerry from his home in Danvers, Mass., Oct. 26: 
" On Wednesday last the Mins. of France arrived in Boston. I spent the chief of three 
days with him and some length of time in private conversation, he expressed a great 
desire of seeing you, but if he sits out this morning as he intended you may not see 
him. it would give me pleasure to make you acquainted with what information I have 
reed, from him, but really I have not time as the bearer stands waiting. We have got a 
small Loan in Spain." Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison. 



October, 1780 427 

490. James Madison to Joseph Jones/ 

Dear Sir, Philada. Octr. [24,] 1780.=' 

Your favor of the 9th which ought to have come on Monday last did 
not arrive till thursday. That of the 17th came yesterday according to 
expectation.^ 

I wish it was in my power to enable you to satisfy the uneasiness of 
people with respect to the disappointment in foreign succour. I am sensi- 
ble of the advantage which our secret enemies take of it. I am persuaded, 
also that those who ought to be acquainted with the cause are sensible of 
it ; and as they give no intimations on the subject it is to be inferred they 
are unable to give any that would prevent the mischief. It is so delicate 
a subject, that with so little probability of succeeding, it would perhaps be 
hardly prudent to suggest it. As soon as any solution comes out you shall 
be furnished with it.* .... 

We continue to receive periodical alarms from the Commissary's and 
Quarter Master's departments. The season is now arrived when provi- 
sion ought to be made for a season that will not admit of transportation, 
and when the monthly supplies must be subject to infinite disappointments 
even if the States were to do their duty. But instead of Magazines being 
laid in our army is living from hand to mouth, with a prospect of being 
soon in a condition still worse. How a total dissolution of it can be pre- 

[490] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 76; 
Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 55. 

2 In the table of contents of the Gilpin edition of the Madison Papers the date of 
this letter is given as Oct. 20. It is more probable however that the letter was written 
on Tuesday, Oct. 24. On that day Congress had under consideration the report of the 
committee on a letter from the commissary-general of purchases, as well as other 
matters pertaining to ways and means, to which Madison appears to allude (see also 
the Journals, Oct. 23, 25; cf. nos. 506, 512, post). Furthermore, he adds in a postscript, 
"A confirmation of the capture of the B. fleet is just reed, from Mr. Harrison at Cadiz", 
as in a like postscript to a letter to Pendleton (IVritings, I. 74), similarly dated "Oct. 
1780", he says, "The President has just communicated a letter from Mr. Harrison at 
Cadiz confirming the capture of the B. fleet" (see no. 486, ante). Harrison's letter was 
read Oct. 24. He also mentions to Pendleton that his letter of Oct. 17 " came yesterday 
according to expectation ". The post was due to arrive in Philadelphia on Monday. Con- 
cerning Madison's custom of writing on Tuesdays see no. 481, note 2, ante. 

John Walker wrote Oct. 24 to Gen. George Weedon, then in Fredericksburg (see no. 
480, note 2, ante) : 

" I thank you for your fav'r of the loth Inst. It should have received an Answer 
sooner had the Post of that week arrived before the other went out. A gleam of Light 
has sprung up in the South which I hope will soon overspread that Hemisphere. I am 
of opinion that Ferguson's defeat will prove the Prelude to a second Burgonade. 

" For the News of this Quarter I refer you to the inclosed Paper. In a few days 
you will probably see Colo. Meade : he and old Harrison are now here on their way to 
Virg'a from them you will hear many things which it might not be altogether proper 
to commit to a Letter. I hope to have the pleasure of writing you in Fred'sburg about 
the middle or 20th of Novr 

" Genl. Green is to take command in the South'n Department and is daily expected 
here on his way 

" P. S. We have just reed, a confirmation of the capture of about 50 of the British 
outward bound East and West India Fleets with 1000 Highlanders by the French and 
Spanish Fleets off Cape Finistere." Am. Phil. Soc, Weedon Papers, no. 46. 

3 Jones's letter of Oct. 9 is in Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 30; that of 
Oct. 17 is ibid., p. 37. An extract of the first is no. 477, ante. 

4 See Jones's query (letter of Oct. 9, ante) concerning the reported French 
reinforcement. 



428 Continental Congress 

vented in the course of the winter is for any resources now in prospect 
utterly inexplicable, unless the States unanimously make a vigorous and 
speedy effort to form magazines for the purpose. But unless the States 
take other methods to procure their specific supplies than have prevailed 
in most of them, the utmost efforts to comply with the requisitions of 
Congress can be only a temporary relief. This expedient as I take it was 
meant to prevent the emission of money. Our own experience as well as 
the example of other Countries made it evident that we could not by taxes 
draw back to the treasury the emissions as fast as they were necessarily 
drawn out. We could not follow the example of other Countries by bor- 
rowing, neither our own Citizens nor foreigners being willing to lend as 
far as our wants extended. To continue to emit ad infinitum was thought 
more dangerous than an absolute occlusion of the press. Under these cir- 
cumstances the expedient of specific requisitions was adopted for supply- 
ing the necessities of the war. But it is clear the success of this expedient 
depends on the mode of carrying it into execution. If instead of executing 
it by specific taxes, State emissions or Commissary's and Q. Master's cer- 
tificates which are a worse species of emissions are recurred to, what was 
intended for our relief will only hasten our destruction.^ .... 

491. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philada. October 26, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Con- 
gress of the 21. Instant, which makes some Alteration in the late Arrange- 
ment of the Army and the Numbers of each Regiment of Infantry re- 
quested by the Resolution of the 3. Instant as also in the Cavalry 

The whole of the Troops are to be enlisted during the War, and join 
their respective Corps by the first Day of January next 

The Officers who will be reduced by this Arrangement, as well as those 
who shall continue in Service are entitled to half pay during Life 

You will receive from the Commander in Chief the proper Returns to 
ascertain the Deficiencies of Troops in the respective States 

It may not be improper to add. that the enclosed Resolution was adopted 
in Consequence of a Letter from the Commander in Chief expressing his 
Sentiments on the Subject in pressing and explicit Terms. ^ 

492. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

-.. Philada. October 26, 1780. 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of 
Congress of the 24. Instant, directing that the Commissary General make 

^ See no. 460, note 6, ante. 
[49111 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 145; Clinton Papers, Vl. 340. 
This and the circular of the same date next following are found in several repositories. 
2 See nos. 471, note 2, 485, note 2. ante. 406, 501, post. 
[492]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 146; Arch, of Md., XLV. 159. 
See no. 491, note i, ante. 



October, 1780 429 

accurate Returns to Congress of the Supplies furnished by each State 
since the last Day of December last, and that the State Agents transmit 
to the Commander in Chief and Commissary General respectively monthly 
Returns of all the Provisions which shall be drawn into their Hands, 
specifying the Articles and Places where they shall be deposited, and also 
earnestly recommending to the several Legislatures to enjoin it as a Duty 
on their State Agents in such Manner as to enforce a punctual Obedience 
I am also directed to transmit you the enclosed Copy of Col. Blaine's 
Letter and Papers to which it refers, and to request the serious Attention 
of the States to the present Wants and Distresses of the Army, and the 
most efficacious Means in their Power to furnish the Supplies requested 
with unremitted Attention 

493. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, October 26, 1780. 
Sir, 

This will accompany my official letter of the same date addressed to 
your Excellency, and enclosing the copy of an Act of Congress allowing 
half pay for life to the officers, as well those who shall he reduced by the 
new arrangement of the army as those who shall continue in service.^ 

I was not a little surprized at the passing of the paragraph allowing: 
half-pay for life, as the question had been so often discussed before and 
as often negatived. 

I have enclosed a copy of the votes with the ays and nos on the ques- 
tions, with an extract of General Washington's letter on the subject. 

The delegates of Connecticutt looked upon themselves bound by their 
former instructions to oppose the measure, with which I presume their 
own sentiments also coincided fully. I confess for myself ever to have 
opposed the measure, and take that to have been the sentiments of all the 
delegates from Connecticutt who have been present when the question 
has been debated. 

Though I am as willing as others generously to reward the officers of 
the army, and think they merit much from their country, yet I have ever 
been opposed to pensions for life as a reward for their services, as incon- 
sistent with the genious and spirit of our constitution. 

I presume this resolution will give general satisfaction to the officers, 
and those who opposed it will incur their disesteem, and perhaps cen- 
sure; but I am much more concerned on account of its consequences 
among the people. What effects it will have with them time will best dis- 
cover ; hope it may be better than my fears. 

[493]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, III. 153. 

2 For the earlier tortuous career of the half-pay measure see vols. III., pp. 
xi-xiv, and IV., pp. x-xi, and passim (index, Half-pay). 



430 Continental Congress 

I have thought it my duty to say thus much upon a subject so impor- 
tant and interesting.' 

And am, with the highest respect, 

Your Excellency's most obedient servant, 

Sam. Huntington. 

494. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Honhle.Sir, Octr. 28th, 1780. 

A Committee was appointed in Congress on the 6th to draught a " Let- 
ter to our ministers at the Courts of Versailles and Madrid to enforce the 
Instructions given by Congress to Mr. Jay by their Resolutions of the 
4th Instant and to explain the Reasons and Principles on which the same 
are founded ; that they may respectively be enabled to satisfy those Courts 
of the Justice and Equity of the Intentions of Congress ". 

That Com'tee reported a Draught of a Letter to Mr. Jay " and that a 
Copy of it be communicated to Doctor Franklin together with the Reso- 
lution directing the draught "." 

There is no Member of the Com'tee of for'gn Affairs attending Con- 
gress but myself, nor have the Com'tee had a Secretary or Clerk since 
T. Payne's Resignation. I must entreat you therefore Sir to excuse the 
Oeconomy of my Request that you would transmit to Mr. Jay all the 
Papers which happen to reach you directed for him, taking Copies of such 
as are left open for your Information. I persuade myself you will readily 
communicate to Mr. Adams what appears so much connected with his 
Commission, though it has not been specially ordered by the Report of 
the Com'tee on the draught.' 

3 See nos. 485, 491, ante, and no. 501, post. In view of the strong opposition to 
the measure in 1778 and 1779, and even only a month earlier, when Congress had 
declined to include the half-pay provision in the army measure, despite Washington's 
earnest solicitations, it is rather surprising that the measure passed with so little oppo- 
sition on the final vote. Of the twelve states in attendance (Delaware was absent) only 
Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Jersey voted in the negative, and no state was 
divided. 

[494]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XX. 52, LIV. 88; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
IV. 107. 

- See nos. 406, 469, ante, and the Journals, Oct. 4, 6, 16, 17; cj. no. 514, Post. 

3 Respecting the committee of foreign affairs, cj. nos. 300, 305, 308, ante. Almost 
as Lovell was writing this apologetic letter to Franklin, Jay was writing to Lovell (Oct. 
27) in reply to Lovell's letter of July 11 : 

" I would throw stones, too, with all my heart if I thought they would hit only the 
committee without injuring the members of it. Till now I have received but one letter 
from them, and that not worth a farthing, though it conveyed a draft for one hundred 
thousand pounds sterling on the bank of Hope. 

" One good private correspondent would be worth twenty standing committees, rnade 
of the wisest heads in America, for the purpose of intelligence. What with clever wives, 
or pretty girls, or pleasant walks, or too tired, or too busy, or do you do it, very little 
is done, much postponed, and more neglected. If you. who are naturally industrious and 
love your country, would frequently take up your pen and your ciphers and tell _me 
how the wheel of politics runs and what measures it is from time to time turning 
out, I should be better informed and Congress better served. I now get more intelli- 
gence of your affairs from the French ambassador than from all the members of Con- 
gress put" together." Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 105. 

Lovell wrote to John Adams Oct. 28, " It is reported that Mr. Searle is taken. Our 
affairs in Holland must, in such case, be very bad, as you will not have received any 



October, lySo 431 

495. The Committee for Foreign Affairs to Captains Bell 

and josiah.^ 

Philadelphia 28 Oct 1780.^ 
Sirs, 

The Committee of Congress for Foreign affairs ask your kind care of 
some letters Gazettes and Books for Doctor Franklin and others. The 
Letters should be sunk in case of danger from the Enemy. They are of 
much importance and should be put into faithful hands for conveyance 
upon your arrival in Port. The books and Gazettes may take their chance 
of such conveyance as may be most convenient. Should the Ship be 
obliged to go into a port of Spain, all those Letters to Doctor Franklin 
ma[r^ked Z may be forwarded to Mr. Jay by some very trusty person, but 
not risqued in the Posts. God prevent this and every unfortunate change 
of the ships course and grant you every prosperity.^ 

powers for acting instead of Mr. Laurens, who is, too, probably taken, and carried to 
England from Newfoundland. And I also know of other fatalities to my letters" (ibid., 
p. 107). Adams already knew of the capture of Laurens (see his letters of Oct. 14, 24, 
27, ibid., pp. 97, 103, 106). Searle had however arrived about five weeks before and 
delivered his despatches (ibid., p. 61). Respecting the conveyance of the present despatches 
see no. 495, post. 

[495]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, p. 274. 

2 Frederick A. Muhlenberg, who appears to have terminated his services in Con- 
gress on this day, rendered on Nov. 4 the following account for attendance (Hist. Soc. of 
Pa., Gratz Coll.) : 

" The State of Pensilvania Dr. to F. A. Muhlenberg for Pay as a Delegate in Congress. 
From March 3d I779 to April 4th 33 Days at £5 per Day agreeable to a 

Resolve of the Assembly April sth 1779 £165 

From April 5th to Nov. 26th 236 Days at £9. o per Day according to a 

Resolution of the Assembly Oct. 9th 1779 2124 

From Nov. 27th to May 29th 1780. 185 Days at £22. 10 per Day agreeable 

to a Resolution of the Assembly Febr. nth 1780 4162 10 

From May 30th to Octob. 28th a. c. 152 Days at i6o per Day according 

to a Resolution of the Assembly May 30th a. c 9120 

£15571 10 
Cr.. 7125 

Balance due £8446 

[The credit account is on the right-hand page:] 

State of Pensilv'a Cr. 

1779 

June 15th By a Warrant in Favour of F. Muhlenberg on the conti- 
nental Treasury for 1500 Dolr's £562 10 

Sept. i6th By ditto on ditto for 1500 Dolr's 562 :o 

Nov. 18. By a Warrant from the Honble the Supreme executive coun- 
cil of the State Treasurer 1 125 

1780 March i. By ditto from ditto 1875 

June i6th. By ditto from ditto 3000 

£7125 o 
Errors excepted. Fredk. A. Muhlenberg. 
Philada. Nov. 4th 1780." 

3 See no. 494, ante. The captains to whom this letter was addressed were doubt- 
less Thomas Bell, of the Pennsylvania ship Chevalier de la Ltiserne, and James Josiah, 
of the letter of marque Lady Washington. 

32 



432 Continental Congress 

496. John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 30th, 1780. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I am made happy by Congress having at last agreed on the plan 
for the army, on such a footing as is Hkely to produce the desired effect. 
Had they but done this at first, there would have been little doubt of its 
success, but there is yet room to hope for important benefits from it, tho' 
late.' .... 

497. The President of Congress to Certain States.^ 

Philadelphia October 31, 1780. 
sir, 

By the Act of Congress of the 30. Instant, herewith enclosed, your 
Excellency will observe that Majr. Genl. Greene is appointed to take the 
Command in the southern Department ; and you will also receive the nec- 
essary Information of the Powers and Instructions given to him by Con- 
gress, and that it is earnestly recommended to the Legislatures and Execu- 
tives from the Delaware State to Georgia inclusive, to afford him all 
necessary Aid and Assistance.' 

P. S. Your Several Letters of the loth 15th 22nd and 25th ulto. have 
been receiv'd ^ 

498. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada. October 31, 1780. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act of Congress of 
the 30. Instant, by which you will be informed, that your Appointment to 
the Command of the Southern Army meets with their Approbation, and 
that Major General the Baron de Steuben is directed to repair to that 
Department under your Command.' 

[496]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 485, ante. 

[497]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIL 63; Library 
of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 150 ("To the Supreme Executive Powers from 
Delaware to Georgia inclusive") ; Arch, of Md., XLV. 166. 

- See nos. 498, 499, post. 

3 This P. S. is on the Virginia letter only. The letters referred to ("ulto" is an 
inadvertence for "inst.") were read Oct. 21, 23, 30, and 31, respectively. The last 
two are in Writings, II. 351, 353; Official Letters, IL 222, 223. 

[498] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 147. 

- See the Journals, Oct. 5, 27, 28, 30. Washington offered the Southern command 
to General Greene Oct. 14; Greene, then at West Point, so informed Congress on the 
15th, and accepted on the i6th. On the 22d Washington drew up his instructions to 
Greene, informed Congress of the appointment, and suggested that Baron Steuben also 
be assigned to the Southern department. Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. 
Ford), Vin. 494, 496, IX. II (in part), the instructions, ibid., IX. 9. See also his 
letter to Greene Oct. 18 {ibid., VIII. 496). Excepting the letter of Oct. 22, they are 
also in Writings (ed. Sparks), VII. 257, 259, 263, 271. Greene's letter of acceptance 
is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 116; a letter of Oct. 19, replying to 
Washington's letter of the i8th, is ibid., p. 123; and a letter of Oct. 31, respecting his 
conference with Congress, is ibid., p. 137. 



October, lySo 433 

That the Army for that Department will consist of all the regular Regi- 
ments and Corps, raised or to be raised from the State of Delaware to 
Georgia inclusive until the further Orders of Congress or the Commander 
in Chief 

That all the Powers given to General Gates while in that Command are 
now vested in you, and the Acts of Congress during that Period be In- 
structions to you in that Department 

You Sir are also empowered to organize and employ the Army under 
your Command in the Manner you shall judge most proper, subject to the 
Controul of the Commander in Chief ; and it is earnestly recommended 
to the Legislatures and Executives respectively in that Department to 
afford you every necessary Assistance and Support, and you are author- 
ized to call for the same 

The Heads of the several Staff Departments are directed to furnish 
to your Orders such Articles as cannot be obtained in the Southern 
Department 

You will also observe that you are empowered to cooperate with our 
Ally or his Catholic Majesty if Occasion shall offer in your Department 
in such ^Manner as may appear most effectual 

To prevent all Doubts on the Subject of exchanging Prisoners you are 
expressly authorized to negotiate from Time to Time an Exchange of 
Prisoners with the Commanding Officer of the British Army in that De- 
partment : provided such Exchanges be not contrary to any general Direc- 
tions of Congress or the Commander in Chief 

The necessary Information on this Subject will be forthwith communi- 
cated to the Supreme Executive in the respective States in the southern 
Department 

Be assured Sir. my best ^^'ishes accompany you, that your Command 
may be attended with desired Success, to the Satisfaction of your Country 
and your personal Honor 

499. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Octr. 31, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 23. came to hand yesterday. We received notice of 
the invasion of Virga. yesterday morning and more fully last evening.^ 
I am sensible of the great difficulties you will have to contend with, and 
that no practicable exertions can save the state from much injury whilst 
the Enemy have a total command of the Bay and rivers 

Congress have felt a becoming resentment of the barbarous treatment 
of the gentlemen in captivity at Charleston, and have directed General 
Washington to require of Clinton an explanation of the matter. Nothing 
has yet been done in consequence of it except an application to Clinton, 

[499]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 
91 (extract) ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 58 (extract). 

' The intelligence was received through letters of Jefferson of Oct. 22 and 
25 (Writings, II. 351, 353; Official Letters, II. 222, 223), read in Congress Oct. 30 and 
31. respectively. 



434 Continental Congress 

which as he had at that time not been officially informed of the fact, he 
evaded by general assurances of the humanity etc., of Cornwallis. Gen. 
Washington had very luckily between the application and the answer re- 
ceived two of the Earl's bloody proclamations which he very handsomely 
communicated to Sir Henry.^ 

The motions of our Allies are no less mysterious here than they appear 
to you. We have however experienced so many proofs of their wisdom 
and goodness towards us, that we ought not on slight grounds to abate 
our faith in them. For my own part I have as yet great confidence in 
both.* .... 

Genl. Green is appointed to command in the S. Dept. during the enquiry 
into Genl. Gate's conduct. He is now here on his way. Baron Stuben will 
accompany him.^ 

500. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 31st, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency the Act of Con- 
gress mentioned in my last with the yeas and nays. 

The President of Congress will soon present to you a Resolution recom- 
mending to the Several states, to levy their proportion of the Six Millions 
of Silver dollars, about Four Millions and a half to be paid in Flour, Beef, 
pork. Rum, and Salt, in certain Quotas at fixed prices and the remainder 
in silver and gold or the bills emitted in pursuance of the Resolutions of 
the i8th of march last.^ 

I am not able at present to inform your Excellency, when the State's 
quota of the said new bills will be ready to go forward. You may rest 
assured nothing on my part shall be wanting for their despatch, as I ap- 
prehend they will be wanted for the payment of the taxes. 

.... General Greene is now in this City on his way to the Southward, 
to take upon the Command of the Army in that Quarter, he intends to 
leave this place to morrow .... 

Mr. Rivingston saith in his paper that some of their brave fellows have 
taken our post with his mail and carried both to N. York. If this is true, 
they must have taken a letter to your Excellency, dated either the loth or 
17th, of which I expect to be informed as I suppose they will publish it. 
Either of [these] letters contain some particulars, I should by no means 
have wrote to the Enemy. Yet conscious of the rectitude of my Conduct 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 23, Oct. 23 ; also no. 450, ante. 

* Pendleton's letter of Oct. 23 is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., 
XIX. 117. See also his letters of Oct. i, 8, 17 (ibid., pp. 114-117). 

s See nos. 472, 498, ante. 
[500] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780, p. 119; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 318. 

2 The reference is to the requisition completed Nov. 4. 



October, 1780 435 

I flatter my self my carrector will not suffer, and I am sure they will not 
be much benefited. All this is upon a supposition they publish the truth ^ 
I have the honour to be 

your Excellencys most obedt. Humble Servant, 

EzEK. Cornell. 

501. Abraham Clark to Josiah Hornblower.^ 

Philada. Octr. 31, 1780. 
Sir, 

Herewith I enclose a Resolution of the 12th Inst.^ granting half pay for 
Life, as well to Officers reduced as to Others. This Resolution is a kind 
of Supplement to the Resolution of the 3d, directing a Reduction of the 
Army. On this precipetate, and in my Opinion, injudicious Act of Con- 
gress it is unnecessary, perhaps improper for me to make any comments ; 
it speaks for it self, and in a Language which in New Jersey will be better 
understood than Relished. The states which had Established half pay for 
life to the Officers of their Lines, aided by New York who entertains 
simular Sentiments forced this measure upon us ; A measure contrary to 
the Genius and Political Ideas of the New England States and New Jersey. 

In Opposition to this Resolution it was urged that the measure was 
unjust, improper and altogether Unnecessary to be forced upon the States 
who Opposed it, as it was of no Consequence to the United States in what 
mode any particular state gave sattisfaction and rendered justice to their 
Officers, provided they kept their Regiments properly Officered, which 
there could be no doubt would be done where the mode of doing it was 
left to themselves, whereas, a Measure so disgustful would irritate and 
prevent the exertions so Necessary at this Time ; but no reasons could pre- 
vail upon Men fixed and determined. What is now to be done ? Will, or 
will not our Legislature Remonstrate against this procedure, and insist 
upon an exemption. If they mean not to sit down easy and quiet under 
this Act, the sooner they explain themselves upon the Subject the better, 
as I believe no reductions have yet been made in the Army. 

As some persons are of opinion it would be of general LItility for Con- 
gress to repeal that part of the Resolution of the i8th of March which 
admits of receiving one Dollar of the New emission in Lieu of 40 of the 
old, it may be proper for the Legislature to instruct their Delegates upon 
the Subject in case they think the measure adviseable. This hath not been 
moved in Congress nor do I know that it will. I do not in this wish to 
call off your attention from more important matters unless you think this 
a matter of Consequence. The Subject I have not considered maturely 
since the New emission is passing where issued at a depreciation of near 
one half, owing as is supposed to fixing the same at one for forty of the 
old emission. The expectation of Congress in that Act was, that the new 

^ See no. 480, ante, and no. 509, post. 
[501]! N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 326; A^. /. Rev. 
Corr., p. 267. 

2 The resolution granting half-pay for life to the officers v^^as adopted Oct. 21, 
not Oct. 12. New Jersey was one of three states that voted in opposition to the 
measure. See no. 493 ante; cf. nos. 479, 480, 485, 491, 496, ante, and nos. 508, 510, 514, 
post. 



436 Continental Congress 

bills would fix the Value of the old, but we find the Value of the new is 
fixed and Varies with the old. As the Laws of our State are Conformable 
to the Resolutions of Congress your Delegates cannot consent to any 
Alteration without your direction, should the same be moved and become 
ever so Necessary under the present Change of Circumstances. This tie 
makes any consideration of the Subject unnecessary in your Delegates 
without your particular Orders for that purpose. 
I have the honour to be. Sir, With all proper regard 

Your Obedt. Humble Servt. 

Abra. Clark. ^ 

502. The President of Congress to the Governor of South 
Carolina (John Rutledge).^ 

Philada. November 2, 1780. 
Sir, 

I do myself the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copies 
of two Acts of Congress of the 10. of October and 6. of September last, 
respecting the unappropriated Lands, with several other Papers to which 

2 On Nov. I the medical committee, of which Clark was a member, made a report, 
and the consequent resolve mentions an " estimate approved by the Medical Committee ". 
Following is the estimate referred to. It is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 464. 
" Estimate of Sundry Articles wanted immediately in the General Hospital, selected from 
An Estimate produced by the Purveyor to the Medical Committee by order of the 
Director, as far as the Committee approve of the same : 

One Hogshead of Rum, supposed to Cost £ 70 

2 Hogsh'ds of Sugar 140 

1 Pipe of Wine 100 

1 1 Tierces of Rice 250 

2 Hogsh'ds of Molasses 50 

100 lbs Bohea Tea 37-10 

2 Reams of Writing and 5 of Wrapping paper 10 

500 lbs Coffee 30 

500 Blankets 500 

25 doz'n Port Wine 30 

100 lbs Tow [?] 5 

100 lbs Wax 10 

200 lbs Resin 10 

500 lbs Lard 25 

30 Galls. Oil II. 5 

200 lbs Salts 50 

Old Linnen for bandages and Lint 25 

for Milk and Vegetables 250 

Candles and Soap to be drawn from the Com'sys stores 

Spoons and .... [sic] from the Quarter Master 

Shirts from the Clothier 

Estimated in Specie Value £1603. 15 

equal to 4276^ Dollars. 

The Above Approved of Novr. ist, 1780. 

By order of the Committee 

Abr.-v : Clark, Chairman " 
[Endorsed:] 

" Estimate of sundry articles wanted for the general Hospital Referred to board of 
treasury 
" Report 4276 Dolls, and 60/90 on the State of New Jersey 

3d Novr. 1780 Thomas Bond Purveyor 

General to be accountable." 
[502] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 152. 



November, 1780 437 

the latter refers, together with a Proclamation for a Day of Thanksgiv- 
ing and Prayer 

I have thought it proper to forward these Proceedings of Congress for 
your Excellency's Information, being general Acts, altho' the present Cir- 
cumstances of South Carolina may prevent for a Time the Carrying into 
Execution of those Acts that relate to the unappropriated Lands. 

503. Benjamin Huntington to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 2d 1780. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have Resolved to Recommend to the States to Tax 
to the Value of Six Millions Dollars in hard Money to be Collected Partly 
in Specific Supplies and the Remainder in Case of the Emissions Pur- 
suant to the Resolves of the i8th of March but as the Whole Report is 
not finished I have no Right to say what the Remainder will be. it is the 
Order of this Day I Expect it will be the Proportion of the Several arti- 
cles to be Raised in Several States ^ . . . . 

504. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

[November 5, 1780.] 
The great depreciation of money and the extravagant prices of every 
thing here together with the difficulty of negociating Bills renders it abso- 
lutely necessary that some stable provision shou'd be made, and some 
fixed mode adopted for supplying us with money, other wise we shall not 
be able to exist — we shou'd be glad to be informed on this head as soon 
as possible.^ 

[503]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9726. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 4; also no. 469, note 6, ante, and nos. 506, 507, 509, 512, 
514, post. In Papers Cont. Cong., no. 39, vol. III., f. 465, is the following minute, which 
appears to belong to the proceedings on the question of specific supplies : 

" Resolved that the States who are required to furnish flesh Meat be requested to 
furnish such proportion of the same in fresh, and in salted as shall be deemed Necessary 
by the Commissary General. [At the margin of this paragraph is the notation: "post- 
pon'd No (November?) 3d pr agreement."] 

" Resolved that any State who shall furnish Tanned Leather of good and sufficient 
quantity, or shoes ready made for the Soldiers in the Army of the United States, shall 
be allowed for the same a price in specie equal to fifty per cent on the average price 
the same bore in the year 1774. 

" I Paragraph determines whether Supplies in kind shall be called for. [Notation in 
the margin: " New Hampshire, beef agreed. Rum agreed."] 

" Supplies where the army are situated 

" North Carolina South Carolina failure of supplies 

" Flower. Beef live or dead." 

[504]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers, "Extract of a L're from the Virga. Dele- 
gates in Congress to his Excellency the Govenour, dated at Phila: nov. 5- 1780". 

2 The extract was transmitted by Governor Jefferson to the speaker of the 
House of Delegates, Benjamin Harrison, Nov. 17 {Writings, II. 365)- See also his 
letter to the delegates in Congress, same date {ibid., p. 363). Jefferson's letters are also 
in Official Letters, II. 232, 22Z. Joseph Jones wrote to Madison Nov. 10: "I have done 
what I could since I have been here to forward money to the delegates but could not 
effect it. Mr. Jameson yesterday informed me they would be able speedily to send you 
a supply. . . . . I shall endeavor to get matters so settled as that our supply be regular " 
{Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 46). See also his letters of Nov. 25, Jan. 2, 17, 1781, ibid., pp. 
57, 66, 67. 



438 Continental Congress 

505. William Sharpe to Matthew Locke.^ 

Specific supplies for the Southern Army. Quota of North CaroHna 
To furnish against the first of January next." .... 

N : B : an accurate account ought to be kept of all the Beeves, Hogs, 
Sheep etc. taken either from Whig or Tory or at least the number of 
rations supplied by our State. \Vhich will all stand part of our quota and 
be charged to the Continent. 

Wm. Sharpe. 
6th Novr. 1780. 

506. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton,^ 

Philada. Novr. 7th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 30 of last month came by yesterdays post and ex- 
plained a report which had amused us here for several days " 

There is I believe no doubt of an intended Congress at the Hague not 
of Ministers from the Belligerent but neutral powers under the auspices 
of Russia ; and as the avowed object of it is to establish the liberty of the 
Seas which G. B. has so little respected, and is highly approved by France 
and Spain as well as all the neutral Maritime powers, it must necessarily 
prove unfavorable to G. B. and consequently friendly to our views. Con- 
gress have thought it adviseable to testify their approbation of the liberal 
principles held out by Russia as the basis of the proposed negociation, 
and have accordingly by a public Act adopted them so far as to direct the 
Board of Admiralty to prepare instructions for their Armed Vessels con- 
formable to them.^ 

Doct. Lee and Mr. Izard particularly the latter have been here some 
time, and I believe are not very reserved in their reflections on the vener- 
able philosopher at the Court of Versailles. Mr. Izard I understand is par- 
ticularly open in his charges against him. Doctr. Lee on his arrival ap- 
plied to Congress for a hearing on the subject of Mr. Deanes allegations, 
if any doubt remained of the falsehood and malice of them, but nothing 
final has been done as yet in consequence of it. I have had great anxiety 
lest the flame of faction which on a former occasion proved so injurious 
should be kindled anew, but as far as I can judge the temper of Congress 

[505]! P. R. O., Cornwallis Papers, 4:22 (addressed, "Matthew Locke Esquire"); 
Library of Congress, British Transcripts. 

- There follows a schedule of North Carolina's quota of supplies to be furnished 
against each of the several dates (Jan. i. Mar. i, May i, July 15) as laid down in the 
act of November 4. However, Sharpe sets down (doubtless in error) the number of 
barrels of pork to be furnished by Jan. i as 7000 instead of 5000, as in the Journals. If 
there was a letter accompanying the schedule, it does not appear. 

[506]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Wriiings (ed. Hunt), L 
92 (part); Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin). L 58 (part). 

2 Pendleton's letter of Oct. 30 is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., 
XIX. 117. 

2 See Pendleton's inquiry in the letter above referred to. 



November, 1780 439 

is in general by no means prone to it, although there may be individuals 
on both sides who would both wish and endeavour it.* .... 

Congress have just finished an estimate of supplies for the ensuing year 
requiring of the States the value of 6 Millions of D'rs in specie. The 
principal part of the requisition consists of specific articles, the residue of 
specie or the new emissions, receivable as specie.^ If the States fulfill this 
plan punctually there is no doubt that we shall go smoothly through an- 
other campaign, and if they would forbear recurring to State emissions 
and certificates, in procuring the supplies, it may become a permanent and 
efifectual mode of carrying on the war. But past experience will not per- 
mit our expectations to be very sanguine. The collection and transporta- 
tion of specific supplies must necessarily be tedious and subject to casual- 
ties, and the proceedings of 13 separate popular bodies must add greatly 
to the uncertainty and delay. The expense attending the mode is of itself 

* Pendleton had written : " We hear Dr. Lee and Mr. Izard are with you and 
are open and unreserved in their abuse of Dr. Franklin. They must have very strong 
proofs before they can affect the character of that great man and philosopher, so long 
and universally esteemed for his wisdom and integrity, but I am more concerned for 
our common interest which must receive injury from every internal wrangle of this 
sort." 

Joseph Jones, in a letter to Madison Oct. 24 {Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 38), remarks : 
" I expect you will soon have Mr. Smith to succeed Mr. Walker. I hope he will avoid 
entering into and reviving those party contentions that when he was in Congress before 
so much disgraced that body. And I trust the gentlemen of our delegation will in gen- 
eral check every attempt that may be made to renew former disputes, or to do anything 
more than what justice shall require. I own I have my fears Congress will again be 
drawn into sects and divisions." 

With regard to Lee and Izard, see nos. 420, 463, 481, 489, ante. The committee on 
Lee's letter brought in a report Oct. 30, and action was taken on it Dec. 2, with a fur- 
ther direction to the board of treasury Dec. 15. Concerning the adjustment of his 
accounts see, further, the Journals, Jan. 3, 8, 16, 1781. 

On Dec. 7, 1780, Lee addressed a letter to Congress, respecting Franklin in particular, 
which was read Dec. 11 and referred to a committee. The committee brought in a 
report upon one paragraph (respecting the cultivation of friendly relations with Rus- 
sia) Dec. 15, and one on the parts relating to Franklin Dec. 28. The latter report, 
endorsed as having been read Jan. 2, 1781, will be found in the Journals under that date 
(it has no connection, however, with the memorial of Thomas Lee and John Coffin Jones, 
a report upon which was brought in on the same day; the latter report is found under 
Jan. 3). Lee wrote to James Warren Dec. 25, "A Committee have reported that Doer. 
Franklin ought to be recalld. But Congress have not yet determined upon the report 
nor do I know what will be their opinion" (Warren-Adams Letters, II. 158). 

Lee wrote to Elbridge Gerry from Philadelphia, Nov. 26 : " Toryism is triumphant 
here. They have displaced every Whig, but the President. Atlee, Wincoop, Clymer, 
Montgomery and Smith brother to the Tory Doctr are chosen members of Congress. 
Mr. Root is arrivd for Connecticut. Dr. Burke is expected and Mr. Smith from Vir- 
ginia every day. A committee having been appointed on my subject brought in a report 
in which it was said that Congress were satisfyd with my zeal integrity and ability. 
Mr. Duane has had influence enough to put oflf a decision upon this, and when the old 
members are collected they will vote it out" (Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of 
New York). 

In one of the passages omitted at this point Madison says: "A Gentleman at Statia 
writes to the Commercial Committee of Ocr. 3d that a Dutch war is seriously talked of." 
Jones's reference to this in his reply, Nov. 18, as printed (Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 
46), reads: "I . . . very sincerely wish the State news may prove true, but I can- 
not yet believe the Dutchmen will go to war." " State " should of course be Statia. See 
no. 486, note 6, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Nov. 4; also nos. 469, 490, 503, ante, and nos. 506, 509, 512, 
5 14, post. 



440 Continental Congress 

a sufficient objection to it, if money could by any possible device be pro- 
vided in due quantity. The w^ant of this article is the source of all our 
public difficulties and misfortunes. One or two millions of Guineas prop- 
erly applied would diffuse vigor and satisfaction throughout the whole 
military departments and would expel the enemy from every part of the 
United States. It would also have another good effect. It would recon- 
cile the army and every body else to our republican forms of Government ; 
The principal inconveniences which are imputed to them being really the 
fruit of defective revenues. What other States effect by money, we are 
obliged to pursue by dilatory and undigested expedients, which benumb 
all our operations, and expose our troops to numberless distresses. If 
these were well paid, well fed, and well clothed, they would be well satis- 
fied, and would fight with more success. And this might and would be as 
well effected by our Governments as by any other if they possessed money 
enough, as in our moneyless situation the same embarrassments would 
have been experienced by every government. 

507. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Philada Novr 7 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

.... You have doubtless before this time been informd that Con- 
gress have called on the States to take immediate and effectual Measures 
to fill up the Army with their respective Quotas during the War. They 
have since orderd a Tax to the Value of Six Millions of Dollars in Specie, 
to be paid partly in speciiick Articles for the Supply of the Army, and the 
Remainder in Gold and Silver or Bills of the new Emission. Their De- 
sign is to have a permanent Army, and to provide adequate Magazines 
for its subsistence without Delay. We have often a Choice of Difficulties 
presented to us. I think, upon the whole, we have in this Instance fixed 
upon the best Method. At least it appears to me to be the surest, consid- 
ering all our Circumstances.^ .... 

508. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, November 9, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 27. Ulto, 
with the Appointment of Delegates for the State, in which the Powers 
of the Delegates are not in the least defined, or any mention made what 
Number of them are authorized to represent the State. I should suppose 
there is some Act of Assembly, either general or special, relating to this 
Subject, otherwise it must require at least a Majority of all the Delegates 
named in the Appointment to represent the State. Genl. Woolcott is not 
yet arrived. Mr. B. Huntington's Time is expired. 

[307]^ Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 216; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Cf. no. 503, ante. 
[508]! Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M.H.S.), XIIL 136; Library of Con- 
gress, Force Trans., Trumbull, XIIL 1.16. 



November, lySo 441 

I find the Post was robbed of my official Letters of the 6, Ulto, ad- 
dressed to the four eastern States, covering Dispatches relating to re- 
cruiting the Army, as your Excellency had conjectured; but presume the 
Intelligence the Enemy obtained thereby must be very disagreeable to 
them, and as Events have turned up hope it will not retard the recruiting 
Service." A Copy of that Arrangement was transmitted to the Com- 
mander in Chief, to obtain his Sentiments thereon, and in Consequence 
of his Opinion and express Desire, some Alterations have been made in 
the final Arrangement, which was completed the 21. of October, and trans- 
mitted to the several Eastern States, under Cover of my official Letter 
of the 26. October by a faithful Messenger, who I presume hath delivered 
them safe long before this.^ 

B. Huntington Esqr. who will deliver this, cannot wait until the Dupli- 
cates of the Despatches which were taken by the Enemy are made out; 
but they shall be forwarded soon. 

509. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(WiLLL\M Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 9th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I do my self the honour to write your Excellency by the express that 
goes to Carry the Recommendation to the several States for levying a 
Tax equal in value to Six Million of silver dollars to be paid as is therein 
recommended.^ LTpon which I beg liberty to observe that the provisions 
is called for upon the most accurate calculation the Nature of the business 
would admit and upon the most mature deliberation Congress were unan- 
imous of opinion, that a less a quantity could not be relyed on with safety. 
The Tax is proportioned both as to the supplies and money agreeable to 
the proportion on which the first fifteen Million Monthly Tax was recom- 
mended, great care hath been taken that the states be called on for such 
kind of provision as each state could best supply. It is probable there may 
be some disproportion in the prices of the several Articles which is in- 
tended to be remedyed by a resolution reserving the whole for a liquida- 
tion at a future day. The consideration of this business took up much of 
the time and attention of Congress and they were fully sensible of the 

2 See nos. 471, 480, note 7, ante. 

3 See nos. 469, 471, 479-481, 485, 491, 501, anie. On the same day Congress issued 
a circular letter to the states, explaining the situation and appealing to the states for 
compliance with the requisitions of Congress for money and supplies. The letter was 
prepared by a committee appointed Oct. 21, and a draft (drawn by John Morin Scott) 
was reported Nov. 7, and considered Nov. 8. The letter was adopted Nov. 9 and as 
entered in the Journals has one erased paragraph. A text with some variations, written 
by Charles Thomson, is also found in the Journals (p. 1040 n.). Of the letter sent 
out several texts have been noted: Hist. Soc. of Pa., Society Collection (in the writing 
of Thomson) ; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book. VH. 5 : copy from the original (to New 
Jersey), in the possession of the Carnegie Institution. It is printed in R. J. State Recs., 
IX. 310, and in Arch, of Md., XLV. 174. 

[509] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 
319- 

2 Cf. no. 508, note 3, ante. 



442 Continental Congress 

burdens their Constituents groaned under, at the same time found them- 
selves under the absolute necessity of making the recommendation they 
could devise no alternative. I hope our state will adopt the recommenda- 
tion and find their reso[u]rces adequate to the requisition. 

Much is said upon the subject of an Armed Neutrality and some poli- 
ticians Conjecture it strongly forebodes a general peace. I confess I am 
not sanguine in my expectations on the subject. And can assure you S'r, 
Congress has not received the most distant official hint that a peace is even 
conjectured by those Neutral powers 

I inclose to your Excellency a copy of my letter of the loth Ultimo, that 
fell into the hands of the Enemy since Mr. Rivington has been so kind 
as to publish it. His motives for so doing I am at a loss to g'ess, but "I 
must do him that justice as to say he hath given to the Public an Accurate 
Copy.^ .... 

N. B. I apprehend you have not seen the arangment of the Army men- 
tioned in the Enclosed Copy as they fell into the hands of the Enemy at 
the same time my letter did. But as the arangment was after wards al- 
tered and sent forward which I trust you have received it is not so mate- 
rial. I shall be more cautious in future in writing as you can easily judge 
of my feeling if some of the letters you have receiv'd had met the fate 
the one did of which the enclosed is a Coppy. 

EC 

510. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Dear General, Philadelphia November 12th 1780. 

You will, I doubt not, forgive my neglect in not writing you, when I 
assure you that I have had nothing to communicate which could give you 
pleasure, or avoid giving you pain ; and, that I was unwilling to add to 
the pressure which your mind has been so long accustomed to. To enu- 
merate the evils which have flowed from party spirit, from inattention, 
and from other sources, would fill a volume in folio, we are now strug- 
ling to extricate ourselves from those Difficulties into which our Folly 
or our prejudices have thrown us, perhaps we may succeed. Some ad- 
vances have been made toward a reformation, many more will shortly 
be attempted the army is arranged I hope agreeable to your Excellencys 
wish, the officers have half pay for Life: The states are Called upon for 
men and Specific supplies Loans are Demanded the several Departments 
are arranging ; the expensive naval and other Boards will be Demolished, 
oeconomy introduced and I trust Speciee will relieve paper bills from the 
Task of Deceiving mankind and yield to every man his just Demand. 
Party spirit though not annihilated is Compelled to hide its head and 
Jealosy of the Army which has Long obstructed salutary measures dare 
not appear in publick. I know it is Late for a reformation to Commence 
but I hope not too Late.^ I lament exceedingly the distresses of our army, 

3 See nos. 480, 500, ante. 
[510]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 144. 

2 See no. 514, fyost. 



November, lySo 443 

and will cheerfully contribute every thing in my power to relieve them, 
or so lighten that burden which I know your Excellency must feel, pro- 
vided I could have the honor of a line from you, pointing out the evils, 
and the mode you would have adopted for redress.^ 

511. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular, 

Philadelphia November 13, 1780. 

sir, 

Congress having received Information from the Honorable the Minis- 
ter of France, of Inconveniences and Injuries received by our Allies, re- 
sulting from the Abuse the British make of Papers and Clearances they 
take in American Prizes, by personating the Officers and Commanders 
named in such Papers, being fully acquainted with the Language and 
Manners of our Officers and Seamen etc. 

In Compliance with the request of the Minister of France, Congress 
have adopted the enclosed resolution: and I am to request your Excel- 
lency's Attention to the necessary Measures for carrying the same into 
effectual Execution." 

512. James Madison to Joseph Jones. ^ 

Philada. Novr. 14th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I do not learn that any of the States are particularly attentive 
to prevent the evils arising from certificates and emissions from their own 
treasury, although they are unquestionably the bane of every salutary 
arrangement of the public finances. When the Estimate for the ensuing 
year was on the anvil in Congress I proposed a recommendation to the 
States to discontinue the use of them and particularly in providing the 
specific articles required. It met however with so cool a reception that I 
did not much urge it. The objection against it was that the practice was 
manifestly repugnant to the spirit of the Acts of Congress respecting 
finance, and if these were disregarded, no effect could be expected from 
any additional recommendations.^ The letters from G. Washington and 
the Com : General for some time past give a most alarming picture of the 
state and prospects of the Magazines. Applications to the contiguous 
States on the subject have been repeated from every quarter, till they seem 

3 See Washington's reply, Nov. 20 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 32, ed. Sparks, \ II. 
297). 

[511]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers: Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 8; N. C. 
Hist. Comm., Nash Papers ; Mass. Arch., CCIII. 178 ; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 157; Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 606; Cat. I'a. State Papers, I. 386: R. I. 
State Recs., IX. 312; Clintott Papers, VI. 410. 

2 Luzerne's letter, dated Nov. i, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. in. It 
was read in Congress Nov. 3, and the resolutions were adopted Nov. 10. 

[512]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081, p. 14; Madison Papers (ed. 
Gilpin), I. 61; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 95. 

- See Jones's letter Nov. 5, Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 40. The estimate was 
under consideration during practically the whole of October and was concluded Nov. 4- 
See nos. 469, note 6, 503, 506, 509, ante, 514, post. Madison's proposition does not how- 
ever appear in the Journals. 



444 Continental Congress 

to have lost all their force. Whether any degree of danger and necessity 
will rouse them to provide for the winter season now hastening upon us, 
I am unwilling to decide because my fears dictate the worst ^ 

513. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia 14th Novemb'r 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have the Honour of both your Excellency's dispatches of the 29th 
October, accompanied by several Resolutions of the honourable Legisla- 
tures ; to all which I shall pay the strictest attention.^ 

The Desolation of so great a part of our Northern and Western Fron- 
tiers is deeply to be deplored : but when a powerful nation will descend to 
the low Employment of an Incendiary; and plume herself on wasting a 
Country which she cannot subdue : when she can sacrifice her Glory to her 
Vengeance ; and trample upon the Laws of War ; the Rights of Humanity ; 
and the Obligations of Honour and Justice ; merely to ruin and distress ! 
When her military are taught to destroy without Distinction or Remorse; 
and to fly without Shame! Is it to be wondered at that she shoud be suc- 
cessful in Feats not beyond the Atchievement of the midnight Ruffian! 

The time may come when such unexampelled Cruelty shall draw down 
Just Retaliation, and she shall feel the sad Effects of an Example which 
fills the world with Abhorrence : 

Your Excellency's Remarks respecting the Grants are but too well 
founded : But to press for a Decision woud hitherto have been highly 
impolitic. Those who are convinced of the Justice of our Cause wish it 
to yield to the pressure of our publick Affairs ; and that we shoud give no 
Room for complaint that we embarrass the national Councils with a par- 
tial Concern while the Preservation of the common Liberties demands all 
our Efforts for a vigorous and decisive Campaign. When this great busi- 
ness is dispatched, I shall recall the Attention of Congress to our Cause 
and do my utmost to bring it to a happy Issue. The Motives which have 
additional weight to reconcile us to Passivity the General, who is the 
Bearer of these dispatches, will communicate.^ The Legislature, in their 
late Appointment of Delegates, have distinguished me by a fresh proof of 
their Confidence, and I shall not fail to give the best Evidence, which 
uprightness and assiduity can produce, of my Zeal and Attachment to the 
common Interest, and of my constant Attention to the Rights and the 
Security of the State which I so long have had the Honour to represent. 

3 See nos. 490, 506, ante. Jones replied to this letter Nov. 25. Letters of Joseph 
Jones, p. 53. 

[513]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc. Duane Papers, V. 243. 

2 Clinton's letters of Oct. 29 are in Clinton Papers, VI. 345. In N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Duane Papers, are some notes of " Papers from the Govr. and Legislature of New 
York", Oct. 7-29, being briefs of instructions to the delegates respecting Vermont. 

3 See nos. 473, 475. 487, ante, and nos. 514, 527. 53i, 539, post. The general 
alluded to was doubtless Gen. John Morin Scott, the delegate, who took his departure 
about this time. 



November, ij8o 445 

The honourable Legislature will observe that by the Reduction of the 
five State Regiments to three, agreeably to the new Arrangement of the 
Army, their Instruction in the Joint Resolution of both Houses of the 
7th of October is anticipated. The Objections which are raised in their 
Resolutions of the same day on the Acts of Congress directing a Com- 
pensation for the Army, deserve great Consideration. The Subject, as 
your Excellency must perceive, is involved in great difficulties, and it will 
be hard to lay down a Rule for defining what Troops, not of the respec- 
tive Lines, shall be provided for by each State ; so as to do equal Justice 
to All. It will however be attempted, and is now under Commitment. The 
Mistakes of the Board of War in assigning to our Quota Officers and Pri- 
vates who are known to have been Natives and Residents of other States, 
can readily be corrected.* 

The Joint Resolutions of our Legislature on the Act of Congress of 
the 26th of August for ascertaining the Current Value of Continental 
Bills of Credit, compared with Specie at the time the debt became due etc. 
is also under the Consideration of a Committee: and I have no doubt but 
the Mode of Adjustment suggested by the Legislature will meet with Ap- 
probation. It affords full security to the publick and the Creditor, and 
nothing further can be desired. ° 

The last Resolutions of the Legislature investing full power in Con- 
gress for an effectual prosecution of the War, does Honour to their Zeal 
and publick Spirit it shall be communicated and enforced. The Compul- 
sory Clause is not perhaps proper for publick Inspection; as it implies 
most Strongly and will certainly hazard, what General Scott will better 
explain in a verbal Conference. On this point I shall wait for further 
Instructions; observing however that I shall not, in Case of Necessity, 
fail to pursue the Spirit of the whole Resolution ; tho' at present we both 
are struck with the Impolicy of producing the Clause alluded to. We hope 
to be pardoned for exercising our Discretion so far as to represent Incon- 
veniencies which we apprehend, before an Instruction is publickly an- 
nounced ; especially as we cannot foresee that a Short Suspension will be 
attended with any pernicious Consequences.® .... 

* The question of New York's quota of troops was brought before Congress 
Nov. 8, in one of Clinton's letters of Oct. 7 (that noted in the Journals, p. 1032 n., as in 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 67, vol. II., f. 318). See no. 527, post. In his letter of Nov. 29, 
just referred to, Duane again discusses the difficulty of laying down a general rule. 

" The matter here referred to was laid before Congress Nov. 8, in a letter from 
Governor Clinton, dated Oct. 10. 

^ The resolutions of the New York legislature here referred to were adopted 
Oct. 10 and are as follows : 

" Resolved Unanimously, That the Delegates from this State be instructed to declare 
in Congress, that it is the earnest wish of this State, that Congress should during the 
War, or until a perpetual Confederation shall be completed, exercise every Power 
which they may deem necessary for an effectual Prosecution of the War, and that 
whenever it shall appear to them that any State is deficient in furnishing the Quota of 
Men, Money, Provisions or other Supplies, required of such State, that Congress direct 
the Commander-in-Chief, without delay, to march the Army, or such Partof it as may 
be requisite, into such State ; and by a Military Force, compel it to furnish its deficiency. 

" Resolved, That his Excellency the Governor, be requested to transmit a Copy of the 
preceding Resolution, to the Delegates from this State in Congress. 

"Resolved Unanimously. That the Commissioners on behalf of this State, appointed to 
meet in the Convention at Hartford, on the second Wednesday in November next, be 



446 Continental Congress 

514. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Schulkill Falls, November 15th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Some time has Elapsed since I wrote You last owing to my having been 
ill with the Fever which raged in the City. I was not confind more than 
a Week, yet it left me so Enfeebled that an attention to the Business in 
Congress and in Committees which met every Morning and Evening not 
only prevented my writing but reduced me so low that I was compelled 
to move to this Place for recovery of Health from which I ride into the 
City every Morning to meet Committees at Nine, attend Congress after- 
wards : and return at Night. This Deprives me of that Leisure which I 
would wish to Employ in giving You every possible Information respect- 
ing our Publick Affairs. I am sorry to say that they are far from afford- 
ing Pleasure to the Friends of America ; former Congresses undoubtedly 
had their Difficulties ; and whether any other set of Men under their Cir- 
cumstances would have done better is not Easy for a Judicious Mind to 
Determine. Events have however proved their Error and call aloud for 
a speedy Reformation. Perhaps most of our Difficulties have arisen from 
an Ignorance of Finance and the want of System in every Department. 

A new Army is now Arranged, the States now called upon for Men 
and Specific Supplies.^ All Publick Departments are now Arranging upon 
©economical Principles. The several and expensive Navy Boards will be 
Abolished. The War Office and Treasury Board regulated.^ A Commit- 
tee is appointed for arranging our Finances.* A Loan from France solic- 

instructed to propose and agree to, in the said Convention, that Congress should, during 
the present War, or until a perpetual Confederation be completed, be explicitly author- 
ized and empowered, to exercise every Power which they may deem necessary for an 
efifectual Prosecution of the War, [the remainder is almost an exact repetition of the 
second clause of the first resolution above, with this addition:] Provided, That the Four 
Eastern States shall agree to grant or confirm to Congress, similar Powers." Votes and 
Proceedings of the Assembly of the State of Nezv York .... (Albany, reprinted by 
Munsell and Rowland, 1859). 

A copy, in the writing of James Duane, of the first resolution as far as " Prosecution 
of the War ", and subscribed : " A true Extract from the Instructions of the Delegates 
from the State of New York, Jas. Duane", is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 67. vol. II., f. 
326. It is endorsed as "Read in Congress Novr. 14, 1780". Cf. no. 545, post. 

[514]! William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (L. S.) ; Br. Pub. Rec. Office, 
A. W. I. 139:31 (new ref., C. O. 5:101); New York Royal Gazette, Extrordinary, 
Dec. 18 and 27, 1780; Almon, Remembrancer, XI. 124. 

- See the Journals, Oct. 3, 21, Nov. 4, and nos. 471, note 2, 491, 501, 506, ante. 

2 See no. 510, ante. A committee to report a plan for the department of foreign 
afifairs was appointed May 15 and it brought in a report June 12, but not until Dec. 15 
did consideration of the report again find record in the Journals. Jan. 10, 1781, it was 
resolved to create a department of foreign affairs. A committee to report a plan for a 
new arrangement of the civil executive departments was appointed Aug. 29, but no pro- 
ceedings concerning the activities of this committee appear in the Journals until Janu- 
ary, 1781. Jan. 6 four new members were added to the committee, and one week later 
(Jan. 13) the committee brought in a report, which was considered Jan. 18, Feb. 6 
and 7. On the latter date the plans for the departments of finance, war, and marine 
were adopted. See, further, nos. 552, 621, note 2, post. 

* See note 6, below. 



November, lySo 447 

ited in the most pressing and Positive Forms : '^ and a regular System will 
soon take Place. Perhaps it may be thought a late Hour for this Refor- 
mation, but is it not better late than never ? Every Days Experience proves 
that many of our Distresses arise from a want of Power in Congress to 
carry any of their Measures into Execution. They send Regulations to 
the States, some comply some do not ; and the Consequence of this is too 
Obvious to need Explanation. Hence it is that our Army is often ready 
to Perish with Hunger and Cold. I am happy to find that New Hamp- 
shire stands formost in Her Compliance with the regulations of Congress. 
At present we have no Money in the Treasury; some States have not yet 
receiv'd their new Money or called in their Old. This with the Artful 
Industry of Tories and Speculators has Depreciated the Old Money to 
Eighty five and even to a Hundred and ten for one in this City. This of 
course more than doubles our National Debt; for as the Bills of the i8th 
of March must be redeemed with Silver and Gold, and are Issued at forty 
for one. Five Million of Silver Dollars must be employed to redeem the 
two Hundred Million of Dollars Emitted, when at only Eighty for one 
two Millions and a half of Silver Dollars would purchase in the whole 
Sum. Consequently there is a National loss of more than two Millions 
and a half of Silver Dollars with its Interest without any Prospect of 
Publick Advantage. But this is not all. Speculators, and Tories who 
have hoarded up the Specie take every advantage of our Necessities, 
Speculate upon our Foreign Bills, so that we lose 25 per Cent on all our 
Money borrowed from France. Our Army is almost naked yet we have 
had Clothing sufficient for them at Cape Francois more than Eighteen 
Months, and Frigates employed in Useless adventures. We had also Arms 
for 20 thousand Men and Clothing for forty nine thousand purchased 
in France and sent to the Stores to be Shipped in April last. The Capt. 
of the Alliance was to have brought them but he came off and left them. 
We then hoped they might come in the Ariel, but She has not arrived. 
In short this season has Exhibited a Scene of misfortunes, scarcely to be 
Equaled in History, many of them have arisen from unforeseen Events ; 
and too many from our own inattention and Neglect. Measures are now 
taken for forwarding the Arms and Clothing. But to prevent the other 
Evil ari[sing from] Depreciation and Speculation is not so easy. The 
first loss of two Millions and a half of [Dollars] is inevitable: for the 
Credit of the last Money must be supported or Publick Faith can no longer 
Exist. To do this and prevent the loss on our Bills Specie must be intro- 
duced to Circulate with the Bills, to redeem them and to act in all respects 
as an Auxiliary to them. 

Perhaps it may be said that it was wrong to Issue these Bills in the 
manner they were Issued, to which I agree ; but it is now too late to pre- 
vent an Evil which has had all its Effects, and an attempt to remedy it 
would draw on Consequences still more Injurious. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 7, Nov. i, il, 17, 22, 25, 28, Dec. 8. For the purpose of 
obtaining a loan of money and other aids from France John Laurens was sent as special 
minister to the court of Versailles. See nos. 539, 540, post. 

2,2, 



448 Continental Congress 

I have the Honor to be one of the Committee for Arrainging our Fi- 
nances, and flatter myself that we shall yet have them established upon a 
respectable Footing.® 

Thus have I given you a True though Malencholy Picture of our Politi- 
cal Affairs, and I sincerely wish that truth would permit me to give You 
a more Pleasing one. 

With respect to our Military Affairs, I can give you but little Informa- 
tion. Lord Cornwallis, since the famous Furgerson was Defeated has 
retreated towards Charlestown. Genl. Green has gone on to take the Com- 
mand from Gates. The British that landed at Portsmouth in Virginia 
remain there sending out small Parties to Pillage. Genl. Clinton is about 
Imbarking with a large Force : I suppose for the Southern States to em- 
ploy the Winter there as he did the last, though I [hope] not so success- 
fully. 

[I su]ppose you will readily conceive by the Account I [have] given 
that my Employment here is not of the most Entertaining kind. I freely 
confess it, and wish to be relieved as soon as convenient. I must at all 
Events be Home by the first of the Spring to look after my Farms which 
are now the only Barrier between me and extreem Poverty. Perhaps if 
requested I may return again in the Summer. I wish as soon as the As- 
sembly meets to know what Wages I am to expect (in real value) as the 
duty I owe to myself and Family will no longer permit me to serve the 
Publick in the highest and most perplexing offices to the ruin of my For- 
tune when even the common Soldier receives a superior reward and com- 
mands Superior Attention. This has ever been my misfortune since in 
Publick Service except when I had the Honor to serve in Congress before 
for Newhampshire. 

And as it is my Duty to serve the Publick with Fidelity I at the same 
time ought to know what I am to expect as a reward for these Services. 

With respect to Vermont the Case was several times Argued and at 
length Congress met to consider upon it at six in the Evening and sat till 
twelve : it was learnedly and Candidly Argued. The Agents on both sides 
attended without speaking. The Arguments ran so much against New 
York that the Agents who were before pressing a Decision have never 
Mentioned it since and thus it rests at present. '^ 

I am compelled to inform you that I shall be in immediate want of 
Money. Articles are so dear here that you can scarce have a conception 
of it : Board without anything but water to drink Eight hard Dollars per 
week. Then firewood and all Lyquors to be paid for. Horsekeeping forty 
Dollars per Day. A common riding Saddle twenty one pound hard Money 

6 The committee (Sullivan, Bland, Mathews, Matlack, and Clark) was appointed 
Nov. 7, Clymer taking the place of Matlack Dec. i. Some proceedings and observations 
of the committee, recorded principally by Sullivan, will be found post (no. 529). The 
committee brought in an elaborate report Dec. 18. See nos. 529, 623-626, post. 

^ The reference is doubtless to the proceedings Oct. 6. See nos. 473, 475, 480, 481, 
513, ante. Duane himself acknowledged (no. 475, note 3, aute) that "the Debates took 
a Turn most injurious to New York", though he altered the phrase to "took a Turn 
which coud not have been looked for ". 



November, I/80 449 

and every thing else in proportion and daily rising. In short a thousand 
Continental Dollars will not purchase what five formerly did. 
I have the Honor to be most respectfully Dear Sir 

Your most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Sullivan 

P. S. The exchange here is from Eighty five to one Hundred and ten. 
The price of Articles in hard Money is on an Average three times as 
much as formerly ; upon this Price they take the Exc'nge in Continental 
money at about a Hundred for one so that three Dollars would formerly 
Purchase as much as nine Hundred will at this Time. 

Jno. Sullivan 

515. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia November 16, 1780. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to transmit your Excellency an Extract of a Letter 
of the /th Instant from General Washington, together with the Copy of 
an Act of Congress of the 14. Instant, earnestly requesting that as great 
a Proportion as can be procured, of the Quota of Provision for the Army 
assigned to the State of Maryland, may be forwarded without Loss of 
Time. The great Destruction of the Grain upon the Western Frontiers 
of New York in the late Incursions of the Enemy makes this Request 
peculiarly pressing, and the Efforts of the State in Compliance therewith 
the more essential 

Your Excellency will further observe, that by the Act enclosed it is 
recommended to the respective States (where it hath not been already 
done) to pass Laws to inflict Capital Punishments on all Persons who 
shall furnish the Enemy with Provisions, military or naval Stores, and 
that the most effectual Measures be adopted for the vigorous Execution 
of such Laws.- 

516. John Sullivan to the Officers of the New Hampshire Line.^ 

Philadelphia November 19th, 1780. 
Gentlemen, 

It is with Infinite Anxiety and Concern that I hear of the Difficulties 
arising among You respecting the New Arrangement of the Army. 

[515]^ Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 11; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 158; Arch, of Md., XLV. 186. 

2 Washington's letter is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VII. 286, (ed. Ford), IX. 21 
(in part). See Arch, of Md., XLV. 222, 252, 255. That part of the resolve which is 
referred to in the first paragraph applied to Pennsylvania and Delaware as well as 
Maryland. 

[516] 1 William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers; Br. Pub. Rec. Office, A. W. L 
139 : 57 (new ref., C. O. 5 : loi ; " Copy of intercepted Rebel Letters, No. 2. In Sir 
Henry Clinton's No. 112") ; A''. Y. Royal Gazette, E.vtraordinary, Dec. 18, 1780; South 
Carolina and American General Gasette, Jan. 10, 1781; Almon, Remembrancer, II. 130. 



450 Continental Congress 

I am well convinced of the Sufferings of our Officers and have with 
Pleasure viewed the Fortitude and Firmness with which they Encoun- 
tered and Surmounted every Difficulty and this even without any Ra- 
tional Hope of ever being put upon a Respectable Military Establishment. 
But this Event has now taken Place and the Army has every thing to hope 
which can reasonably be expected or desired by Men who have ventured 
their All in defence of their Country; and even those who are to retire 
have proper and generous Provision made for them. But should this bring 
about a Contention for the Preference (not for remaining in Service but) 
for retiring will not this cast a shadow over all their virtuous Actions and 
induce Mankind to believe that Interest and Ease have gained the Ascen- 
dency over Publick and Military Virtue. 

Those Members of Congress who exerted themselves to obtain a proper 
and Honorable Establishment for their Officers had so good an Opinion 
of their Military Ambition that they believed there would be a contention 
among them for remaining in Service but by no means for retiring and I 
shall be exceedingly mortified if I am compell'd to Change my Sentiments 
especially with respect to the Newhampshire Line. 

I am informed that some doubts have arisen respecting the Resolve of 
Congress which I wish to explain. Congress directed a meeting of the 
Officers of each State (not f [or] determining who should go home) but 
to fix upon proper Officers to Command the Regiments of the respective 
States and where they could not agree it was to be determined by 
Sen[io]rity. The Obvious and Natural Construction is that when the 
Corps could not be Established by agreement they were to be Compleated 
by Seniority. Whoever would put a differ [ent] Construction upon it must 
suppose that Congress mea[nt] at once to get rid of all their old and 
Experienced Officers and to put the Army under the Command of Young 
and Inexperienced Men. This Construction is not only against the ra- 
tional and obvious meaning of the Words but against common Sense and 
reason ; and I confess I was not a little surprised to hear that some Offi- 
cers in the Newhampshire Line had supposed that this was the meaning 
of Congress." 

Permit me Gentlemen to Intreat Your Perseverance in ga[in]ing the 
Object so long and Nobly contended for : and You may rest assured that 
those brave Men who continue in Service will have in Addition to the 
Applauses of a grateful Country every Emolument which the nature of 
our Service will admit. 

I have the Honor to be with the most Perfect Attachment Gentlemen 

Your most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Sullivan 
The Officers of the Newhampshire Line.^ 

2 The resolve referred to is that of Oct. 21. 

^ This address was enclosed to Col. Alexander Scammell. See no. 517, post. 



November, lySo 451 

517. John Sullivan to Alexander Scammell.^ 

Philadelphia November 19th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Having been informed of some Difficulties in the Newhampshire Line 
respecting the late Arrangement I enclose you an Address to the Officers 
which I beg you will present after shewing it to his Excellency and re- 
ceiving his Approbation without which I would not have it communicated 
as I do not conceive myself authorised to address any Part of the Army 
without his concurrence." 

I am Dear Sir etc., etc. 

Col. Scammell. 



(Signed) Jno. Sullivan. 



518. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry. ^ 

Novr. 20th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I find that I have not only to acknowledge your Favor of the 2d by 
Mr. Penny ^ reed, the 15th, and your other of the 6th reed, this day, but 
That from Worcester of Octr. 27 which I have just discovered wrapped 
up in an half written very confidential Sheet, thrown by, as I suppose, in 
a Qualm of Timidity lest it should be intercepted at or near Stratford.^ 

As to Vermont — They may sow and mow, I imagine, and reap there 
too, before any definitive Judgement will be made up here respecting 
them.* 

So much in answer to yr. first date. 

"Popular", say you, "beyond all description". Oh strange! Alack 
and Alas-a-day ! what ? more popular than that one of old? ! ! ! 

Somuch to your second date. 

But perhaps you may be a little in the dark, as to the chronological 
Reference. I have to lament that good Col. Peabody is not at your Elbow 
to suggest the 32d of Exodus.^ Believe me he is really in a most critical 
State at Alorris Town confined to his Bed 

[517]! British Public Record Office, A. W. I. 139:57 (new ref., C. O. 5: loi). 

2 The address is no. 516, ante. 

[518]! William L. Clements Library (Marked on the address "Intercepted"); Br. 
Pub. Rec. Office. A. W. I. 139:51 (new ref., C. O. 5:101); N. Y. Royal Gazette, 
Extraordinary, Dec. i8 and 27, 1780: South Carolina and American General Gazette, 
Jan. 3, 1781 ; A. G. I., Seville (enclosed in Rendon to Galvez, Mar. 5, 1781). 

- " Mr. Penny " was Pierre Pennet, the French merchant. He brought also a 
letter of Nov. 2 from James Warren to Samuel Adams. See IVarren-Adams Letters, 
II. 148. 

3 An allusion to the capture of the mail at Stratford, Oct. 20. See no. 480, ante. 
This letter was in turn intercepted and in consequence troubled more than ever the 
waters that were before anything but placid. See note 5, below, and nos. 550, 586, 634, 
post. 

* See nos. 513, 514, ante. 

^ Without the guidance of Gerry's letters the allusions are obscure, but, because 
of Lovell's known attitude toward Washington, they were generally supposed to refer 
to the commander-in-chief. Gerry explained however, in a letter to Washington Feb. 7, 
1 78 1, that the letter from which Lovell had quoted referred to the recent election in 
Massachusetts, which placed John Hancock in the governor's chair, and that his remark 
upon the strange popularity of a certain person was pointed at no other than Hancock, 
the " civil officer who was then elected ". To some of Hancock's opponents this eleva- 



452 Continental Congress 

I told you some time ago that I would give you a curious motion, the 
Product of some months Study in the Jersies; it was introduced thro' 
a Porch very large indeed, and of most uncouth Architecture, and is what 
a mountebank Doctor would suppose a Plaister for all Sores. 

Motion by M — th — s, seconded by T — If — r 

Res : That Gen. W be, and he is hereby fully authorized and em- 
powered to carry into Execut'n in the most compleat and ample manner 
such measures as shall appear to him best calculated for raising and bring- 
ing into the field on or before the ist day of Jan'ry next, an army of 
25000 men to continue in the service of these United States during the 
present war with Great Britain, to provide arms ammunition, cloathing 
military and hospital Stores and Camp Equipage of all kinds. Waggons 
horses and forage, to supply the said army with all kinds of provisions 
and refreshments, to lay up such magazines of provisions forage military 
and hospital stores and Camp Equipage as he shall judge are necessary, 
to appoint such Officer or Officers in the said army as shall be from time 
to time required, and to bring to tryal all officers whose conduct may ren- 
der it necessary, and to carry into execution such sentence as shall be 
awarded by a court martial, to call forth from time to time such and 
somany of the militia of these United States as in his opinion may be 

necessary. And he the said Gen. W is by these presents required in 

the most speedy and effectual manner to carry compleatly and vigorously 
into execution the Powers and authorities hereby vested in him and to 
do ail such other matters and things as shall appear to him necessary to 
promote the Welfare of these United States, to draw on the Treasury of 
the United States for such sums of money as shall be required to defray 
the Expences incurred in consequence of the powers to him delegated. 
And the Congress of these United States do in the most solemn manner 
pledge themselves to the said Gen. W fully and vigorously to support 
him and to ratify whatever shall be by him done in the premises 

Res. That the foregoing powers and authorities continue and they 
are hereby declared to be in full force until the ist day of December 1781 
and no longer.^ 

I will endeavor to get some Decency for Gen. W if it is only plump 

Denial of Justice. Perhaps as Mr. Matlac is joined to Mr. Fell there may 
be neither Denial nor Equivocation. 

" Is it not Time to pay a Visit to Mass. " ? Does my Wife look as if 
she wanted a toothless grey headed sciatic Husband near her? I am more 
Benefit to her at a Distance than in cf as the Almanack has it. 

I shall call on Nanny CI r tomorrow and talk of the mackrel. 

tion was an exhibition of idolatry as disgtisting and shocking as the elevation of the 
golden calf of Exodus 32. Besides the correspondence between James Warren and 
Samuel Adams, in which this attitude is especially manifest, see a letter from Mercy 
Warren to John Adams Nov. 15, 1780, in Warren- Adams Letters, II. 145. Concerning 
the episode, see Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 334-340. Gerry's letter will be found under 
no. 634, post. 

^ This is no doubt the resolution alluded to by Mathews in his letter to Wash- 
ington Sept. 15 (no. 434, ante). Mathews had returned to Congress from camp prob- 
ably in the early days of September, and must have offered his resolution before the 
Sth, the date at which Lovell promised to send it to Gerry (see no. 420, ante). The pro- 
posed resolution is in the Life of Gerry, I. 338, where however it is credited to Lovell 
himself. Cf. no. 431, ante, and no. 545, post. 



November, lySo 453 

By the \Vay, this puts me in mind to tell you that Pensylvania is clearly 
for taking off the Embargo, Deleware has not continued it and maryland 
has only done it conditionally. I think the Chance is that it will be off. I 
am sure it will whenever the State Quotas are furnished, and the Mer- 
chants are ready to give a pr. Ct. in kind of what they Export of the 
enumerated articles. This State thinks this her only Way of raising her 
Quota. Mr. J xA.dams was in Holland in August but he says not a Word 
of money matters. 

I am obliged by yr. note respecting the settlement of accounts, and think 
that 40 for I is favorable upon a Supposition that I had drawn my pay 
nearly from time to time, wdiereas I pinched myself till the very height of 
Depreciation. Besides the Foundation is not good ; one half of what Con- 
necticut gives. 

The hoarse Watchman warns me to bed. 

Adieu dear Sir, 

JL 

519. James Madison to Joseph Jones.^ 

Philada. Novr. 21st, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I am glad to find you have at last got a house of Delegates, and 
have made so auspicious a beginning, as a unanimous vote to fill up our 
line for the war. This is a measure which all the States ought to have 
begun with. I wish there may not be some that will not be prevailed on 
even to end with it. It is much to be regretted that you are not in a con- 
dition to discontinue another practice equally destructive with temporary 
enlistments. Unless an end can by some means or other be put to State 
emissions and certificates they must prove the bane of every salutary 
regulation. The depreciation in this place has lately run up as high as one 
hundred for one, and it cannot be satisfactorily accounted for on any 
other principle than the substitution of certificates in the payment of 
those taxes wdiich were intended to reduce its quantity and keep up a de- 
mand for it. The immediate cause of this event is said to have been the 
sudden conversion of a large quantity of paper into specie by some tories 
lately ordered into exile by this State. It is at present on the fall and, 
I am told the Merchants have associated to bring it down and fix it at 75. 
The fate of the new money is as yet suspended. There is but too much 
reason, however, to fear that it will follow the fate of the old. According 
to the arrangement now in force it would seem impossible for it to rise 
above one for forty. The resolutions of Congress which establish that 
relation between the two kinds of paper must destroy the equality of the 
new with specie unless the old can be kept down at forty for one. In New 
Jersey I am told the Legislature has lately empow^ered the Executive to 
regulate the exchange between the two papers, according to the exchange 
between the old and the new, in order to preserve the equality of the lat- 

[519]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 108 1 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 97; 
Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 62. 



454 Continental Congress 

ter with specie. The issue of this experiment is of consequence, and may 
throw Hght perhaps on our paper finance. The only infalHble remedy 
whilst we cannot command specie, for the pecuniary embarrassments we 
labour under, will after all be found to be a punctual collection of the 
taxes required by Congress. 

I hope you will not forget to call the attention of the Assembly, as early 
as the preparations for defence will admit to the means of ratifying the 
Confederation nor to remind it of the conditions which prudence requires 
should be annexed to any territorial cession that may be agreed on. I do 
not believe there is any serious design in Congress to gratify the avidity 
of land mongers, but the best security for their virtue, in this respect will 
be to keep it out of their power. They have been much infested since you 
left us with memorials from these people; who appear to be equally 
alarmed and perplexed. Mr. G. Morgan, as agent for the Indiana claim- 
ants after memorializing Congress on the subject has honored the Vir- 
ginia Delegates with a separate attention. He very modestly proposes to 
them a reference of the Controversy between the Company and Virginia 
to arbitration in the mode pointed out in the Confederation for adjusting 
disputes between State and State. We have given him for answer that as 
the State we represent had finally determined the question, we could not 
with any propriety attend to his proposition ; observing at the same time 
that if we were less precluded we could not reconcile with the sovereignty 
and honor of the State an appeal from its own Jurisdiction to a foreign 
tribunal, in a controversy with private individuals.^ .... 

520. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(WiLLL\M Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 21st, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the ist Instant 
by yesterdays post. And have taken due notice of the contents, and so far 
as respects the New Bills beg leave to refer you to the official information 
from the Treasury board that is inclosed. But when it is struck I fear 
there will be a difficulty in forwarding them unless I undertake the Busi- 
ness my self which I shall do if not done without. 

I have examined at the Treasury Board for information respecting 
the Bills of Exchange you mention they will not own that Mr. Clark ^ 
hath wrote for any. There is Bills ready as soon as a safe conveyance 
can be had. I dare not give my receipt for them to go by the Post. But 
shall miss no safe oppertunity to forward them. 

- See nos. 486, 489. ante, and nos. 521, 629, post. The memorial of George Morgan 
here referred to may be that presented Sept. 14, 1779. Memorials in behalf of the pro- 
prietors of the Indiana and Vandalia tracts were presented by William Trent .Sept. 27 
and Oct. 14. A further memorial by Morgan as " Agent for the Indiana proprietors ", 
dated Nov. 30, 1780, was read in Congress Mar. 16, 1781. With regard to his address 
to the Virginia delegates see no. 521, post. 

[520] 1 William L. Qements Library, Clinton Papers; Br. Pub. Rec. Office, A. W. I. 
139:44 (new ref., C. O. 5:101); A'^. Y. Royal Gazette, Extraordinary, Dec. 18, 1780; 
Almon, Remembrancer, XI. 129. 

2 Presumably Joseph Qarke, general treasurer of Rhode Island. 



November^ I/80 455 

So far as respects the postage of the Blank Commiss'ns etc. I beg leave 
to observe that Governor Jefferson made a similar complaint and nothing 
more was done then the passing the Inclosed Resolution.^ At the same 
time it appeared to be the sense of Congress that the State ought to pay 
the sum charged and carry the same to the Accompt of the United States. 
As the matter hath been so late before Congress I can not suppose you 
would wish me to Urge the matter over again. 

I cannot have too high an opinion of the Honl. the General Assembly 
on account of the particular favour they have done me, in their liberal 
Grants to Enable me to return home as soon as releivd, which I hope will 
soon take place when I shall be so happy as to have the pleasure of giveing 
you a more particular account of our publick affairs then either time or 
prudence will permit at this time. 

I have the honour to be with every sentiment of Esteem 

Your Excellencys most obedt. Humble Servant 

EzEK. Cornell 

521. Theodorick Bland to the Governor of Virginl\ 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 22d 1780. 

Mr. Walker, who sets off to Virginia tomorrow, affords us this oppor- 
tunity of Enclosing your Excellency a Copy of a letter Presented to us 
the 1 6th Inst, together with a Copy of our Answer, concerning the affair 
of the Indiana Comp'y ' 

It may not be improper to Inform Yr. Excellency and, (through Yr. 
Excy. ) the Legislature who we suppose may be now Siting, that every art 
has been and tis probable may be used, by that Company to extend their 

3 The blank commissions were probably those mentioned in the resolve of July 
27; the resolution respecting postage probablv that of Sept. 19. 

[521]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Librarj^ of Congress, Madison Papers (copy). 
The copy in the ^Madison Papers is preceded by a letter of Dec. 5, 1780, from Jeflferson, 
transmitting Bland's letter to Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the House of Delegates 
(Official Letters, H. 239). The copies are certified by Wm. Mumford, keeper of the rolls, 
Sept. 30, 1820. See the certificate to the copy of Madison and Bland's letter of Dec. 
13, 1780, no. 543, post. 

2 The letter is from George Morgan signing himself as "Agent for the Indiana 
Comp'y" (see no. 519, ante). He calls the attention of the delegates to the act of the 
Virginia assembly requiring the Indiana Company to set forth its right to the tract 
claimed by virtue of the treaty of Fort Stanwix in 1768, to the company's memorial to 
Congress requesting that body to hear and determine the case (concerning which noth- 
ing had been done by Congress), and then proposes to submit the dispute "to the arbi- 
tration and final Decision of Gentlemen of the first Capacity, Integrity, and Experience 
upon the Continent, to be Chosen by the Hon'ble the Congress in the Same Manner as 
is directed by the Articles of Confederation in like Cases, between State and State" 
(Va. State Lib., Ex. Papers). The delegates replied: 

"The Delegates from Virginia Inform Mr. Morgan in answer to his letter of the 
i6th Instant, That as the State they represent have finally decided on the Subject to 
which his proposition relates, it would be manifestly improper for them to attend to it— 
they think it their Duty to add that if they were less precluded they could not recon- 
cile with the respect due from every State to its own Sovereignty and honor, an appeal 
from its own decisions, to a foreign tribunal, in a case which involves the Pretensions ot 
Individuals only, and not the Rights or pretensions of any foreign State" (ibid.). See, 
further, no. 629, post. 



456 Continental Congress 

influence and Support their pretensions, and we are Sorry to say that we 
have Suspicions founded upon more than mere Conjecture, that the land 
Jobbs, of this Comp'y, the Vandaha, and the Illinois Companies, have 
too great an influence in procrastinating that desireable and necessary event 
of Compleating the Confederation, which we hope the Wisdom, firmness, 
candor and Moderation of our Legislature now in Session will remove 
every obstacle to 

We Could wish also and we think it a duty we owe to our Constituents 
to call their attention to a revision of our former instructions relative to 
the Navigation of the Missisipi, that, Should any overtures from Spain 
be offerd which are advantageous to the United States, and which might 
contribute not only to relieve our present necessities, but promise us peace 
and a firm establishment of our Independance, it might not be considerd 
as an object that would counterbalance the distant prospect of a free Navi- 
gation of that River, with Stipulated ports, which may perhaps under 
another form or at some more convenient opportunity be obtaind from 
that Nation, in behalf of our Citizens Settled on its Banks and Waters. 
Having Shewn the above to my Colleague Mr. Madison, he has thought 
it unnecessary to Join in that Part of it relating to our Instructions on 
the Subject of the Navigation of the Missisipi. I am Sorry to Say that 
notwithstanding the high Idea I entertain of that Gentlemans good Sense, 
Judgment and Candor, I feel myself irresistably impelld by a Sense of 
my duty, to State a Matter and to communicate it through the Proper 
Channel which may eventually effect so greatly the Prosperity and even 
existence of the United States at large, and feeling myself willing to re- 
ceive the Censure of my Constituents if I have done wrong, or their ap- 
plause if I have done Right in Suggesting to them so important a matter 
I am under the necessity (as to that matter) of standing alone in my 
opinion, which I wd. not wish, should in the Minutest degree, be inter- 
preted, as obtruding or dictating a measure however necessary I as an 
individual Representative of the State may conceive a relaxation of our 
instructions on that head to be, nor do I conceive that any Member either 
of the Executive or Legislature of our State, who is acquainted with my 
wish to promote the Public good, and to conform to the Strict tenor of 
their instructions, can attribute my suggestion to any wish to swerve from 
them in my Vote in Congress, having pledged myself both in Principle 
and in promise Steadily to adhere to them on all occasions.^ I have the 
Honor to be 

Yr. Excell'ys ]\Iost obedt. and very H : Set. 

ThEO'k BL.A.ND 

522. James Madison to Joseph Jones.^ 
Dear Sir, Philada. Nov. 25th 1780. 

I informed you some time ago that the instructions to Mr. Jay had 
passed Congress in a form which was entirely to my mind. I since in- 

3 For Madison's position see nos. 522, 533, 548, post: cf. no. 543, post. 
[522]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. loi; 
Madison Papers fed. Gilpin), I. 64: Wharton. Rcr. Dipl. Corr., IV. 628 n. ; Letters of 
Joseph Jones, p. 50. 



November, ifSo 457 

formed you that a committee was preparing a letter to him explanatory 
of the principles and objects of the instructions. This letter also passed 
in a form equally satisfactory." I did not suppose that any thing further 
would be done on the subject, at least till further intelligence should ar- 
rive from Mr. Jay. It now appears that I was mistaken. The Delegates 
from Georgia and South Carolina, apprehensive that a Uti possidetis 
may be obtruded on the belligerent powers by the armed neutrality in 
Europe, and hoping that the accession of Spain to the Alliance will give 
greater concert and success to the military operations that may be pur- 
sued for the recovery of their States, and likewise add weight to the means 
that may be used for obviating a Uti possidetis, have moved for a re- 
consideration of the Instructions in order to empower Mr. Jay in case of 
necessity to yield to the claims of Spain on condition of her guaranteing 
our independence and affording us a handsome subsidy. The expediency 
of such a motion is further urged from the dangerous negociations now 
on foot by British Emissarys, for detaching Spain from the war. Wednes- 
day last was assigned for the consideration of this motion and it has con- 
tinued the order of the day ever since without being taken up. What the 
fate of it will be I do not predict but whatever its own fate may [be] it 
must do mischief in its operation. It will not probably be concealed that 
such a motion has been made and supported, and the weight which our de- 
mands would derive from unanimity and decision must be lost. I flatter 
my self however that Congress will see the impropriety of sacrificing the 
acknowledged limits and claims of any State without the express con- 
currence of such State. Obstacles enough will be thrown in the way of 
peace, if [it] is to be bid for at the expense of particular members of the 
Union. The Eastern States must on the first suggestion take the alarm 
for their fisheries. If they will not support other States in their rights 
they cannot expect to be supported themselves when theirs come into 
question.^ 

- See no. 481, ante, and the Journals, Oct. 17. Madison himself drafted the letter, 
which may also be found in his Writings, II. 82. 

3 The proposition of the Georgia delegates, dated Nov. 10, was tpoved Nov. 18. 
It was further considered Dec. 5 and 8, and the endorsement on the original (Library 
of Congress, U. S. R.) shows that on Dec. 29 further consideration was set for Jan. 5, 
1781. See nos. 533, 543, 629, 661, post. The Journals contain no record of the considera- 
tion of the motion again, and Madison states (letter of Jan. 8, 1822, under no. 661, post) 
that it was postponed to await the action of Virginia respecting the question of the free 
navigation of the Mississippi River. The Georgia delegates then adopted a measure of 
their own. They published a small pamphlet with the title: Observations upon the 
Effects of Certain Late Political Suggestions (Philadelphia, R. Aitken, 1781, pp. 10; 
reprinted, Wormsloe, 1847). (The original manuscript is in the Emmet Collection, no. 
1662; a copv of the Aitken edition is in the Library Company of Philadelphia; another 
is in Paris,'AflF. Etr., E. U. 15: 12; a French translation is ibid., 15: I3-) Some parts 
of the Observations may appropriately be reproduced here: 

" From the most recent accounts that have been received from Europe, there is the 
greatest reason to expect that a new commission will issue from the court of London, 
for the purpose of again sounding the temper of America, upon the subject of a pacifica- 
tion; in which the State of Georgia, and perhaps that of South-Carolina, will not be 
regarded as part of the American Union, but excluded as having been again colonized 
to England by new conquest. 

" The uti possidetis also has been much talked of in Europe, as a probable basis for 
the peace; and this report, although rejected with marks of abhorrence by all descrip- 



458 Continental Congress 

In this important business, which so deeply affects the claims and in- 
terests of Virginia and which I know she has so much at heart, I have not 
the satisfaction to harmonize in sentiment with my Colleague. He has 
embraced an opinion that we have no just claim to the subject in contro- 
versy between us and Spain, and that it is the interest of Virginia to ad- 
here to it. Under this impression he drew up a letter to the Executive to 
be communicated to the Legislature, stating in general the difficulty Con- 
gress might be under, and calling their attention to a revision of their 
instructions to their Delegates on the subject. I was obliged to object to 
such a step, and, in order to prevent it observed that the instructions were 
given by the Legislature of Virga on mature consideration of the case, 
and on a supposition that Spain would make the demands she has done, 
that no other event has occurred to change the mind of our Constituents, 
but the armed neutrality in Europe and the successes of the Enemy to the 
Southward which are as well known to them as to ourselves ; that we 
might every moment expect a third delegate here,* who would either ad- 
just or decide the difference in opinion between us, and that whatever 
went from the Delegation would then go in its proper form and have its 

tions of men in America, circulates with terrors, as it is pretended to be drawn from the 
armed Neutrality. 

" The people who would be particularly affected by the operation of such principles, 
ought to fear every thing; although justice, humanity, and the interests of America, and 
her friends, forbid them to dread any thing. They united in the one cause, and have 
sacrificed their blood and fortunes in its support; and therefore it would be unjust and 
inhuman, for the other parts of the Union, separately to embrace the result of the 
common efforts, and leave them under the yoke of a bankrupt and enraged tyrant. To 
preserve the States entire, is the object of the alliance with Franj:e, and it cannot be the 
interest of the other great branch of the family compact, that we should again make a 
part of the British empire. 

"We will not, however, enter into any farther discussion of this subject, than will be 
sufficient to shew the importance of the question as it respects our own State, leaving 
, to others to speak of their interests." 

There follow some observations upon the place of Georgia in the union, consid- 
ered from the points of view of geography and commerce, the latter in particular. The 
argument then continues : 

" From all these considerations, it inevitably follows, that the State of Georgia is a 
material part of the Union, and cannot be given up without affecting its essential 
interests, if not endangering its existence. It seems to be almost universally acknowl- 
edged, that it is not only the interest of France and Spain, but of all Europe, Great 
Britain only excepted, that the bulk of North-America should constitute an Independent 
Power 

"As to America, no part of it could expect to be free long, while England retains 
both ends of the Continent 

" We conclude these remarks, by repeating as our opinion, what has been said all over 
Europe and America, that the two Southern States, being the feeble part of the Con- 
tinent, in point of numbers and compactness of settlement, can be recovered only by a 
naval superiority: to which object, therefore, we could wish to fix the attention of all 
those whom it concerns. 

" Done at Philadelphia, the Eighth Day of January, 1781, and in the Fifth Year of 
our Independence. 

Geo. Walton'. 
W. Few 

R. HOWLY." 

On the application of the Georgia delegates Jan. 27 Congress ordered a warrant issued 
" for two thousand six hundred and sixty-three dollars and one-third of a dollar, old 
emissions to enable the said delegates to pay so much due to R. Aitkin on account of 
the said State of Georgia which is to be accountable ". The payment to Aitken was 
doubtless for printing the Observations. 

* The third delegate expected was doubtless Jones himself. See nos. 540, 610, post. 



November, I/80 459 

proper effect, that if the instructions from Virga. were to be revised, and 
their uhimatum reduced, it could not be concealed in so populous an As- 
sembly, and every thing which our Minister should be authorized to yield 
would be insisted on, that Mr. Jay's last despatches encouraged us to ex- 
pect that Spain would not be inflexible if we were so, that we might every 
day expect to have more satisfactory information from him, that finally 
if it should be thought expedient to listen to the pretensions of Spain, it 
would be best, before we took any decisive step in the matter to take the 
counsel of those who best know the interests and have the greatest influ- 
ence on the opinions of our Constituents, that as you were both a member 
of Congress and of the Legislature and were now with the latter, you 
would be an unexceptionable medium for effecting this, and that I would 
write to you for the purpose, by the first safe conveyance. 

These objections had not the weight with my Colleague which they 
had with me. He adhered to his first determination and has I believe sent 
the letter above mentioned by Mr. Walker, who will I suppose soon for- 
ward it to the Governor. You will readily conceive the embarrassments 
this affair must have cost me. All I have to ask of you is that if my re- 
fusing to concur with my Colleague in recommending to the legislature 
a revision of their instructions' should be misconstrued by any, you will 
be so good as to place it in its true light, and if you agree with me as to 
the danger of giving express power to concede, or the inexpediency of 
conceding at all, that you will consult with Gentlemen of the above de- 
scription and acquaint me with the result.^ 

I need not observe to you that the alarms with respect to the inflexi- 
bility of Spain in her demands, the progress of British intrigues at 
Madrid, and the danger of the Uti possidetis, may with no small probabil- 
ity be regarded as artifices for securing her object on the Mississippi. 
Mr. Adams in a late letter from Amsterdam, a copy of which has been 
enclosed to the Governor, supposes that the pretended success of the Brit- 
ish emissaries at Madrid is nothing but a ministerial finesse to facilitate 
the loans and keep up the spirits of the people. 

This will be conveyed by Col. Grayson, who has promised to deliver it 
himself, or if any thing unforeseen should prevent his going to Richmond, 
to put it into such hands as will equally ensure its safe delivery. 

523. John Sulli\^\x to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novem'r 26th, 1780. 
Dear General, 

I am honored with your Excellency's Favor of the 20th Instant,' and 
feel myself under the greatest obligations for your obliging Condescen- 
sion in Consenting to a Continuation of my Letters. 

5 For Bland's attitude see no. 521, ante. 
[523]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Washington's letter to Sullivan, Nov. 20, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 32, 
(ed. Sparks), VII. 297. 



460 Continental Congress 

Sensible of your Situation and Course of Business I feared to write Lest 
your Politeness should Divert your attention from important matters and 
Lead you to answer even where an answer appeared unnecessary. But I 
now take the Liberty of assuring you that I shall not expect Frequent or 
Lengthy answers, when the Nature of my Letter requires and your 
Liesure will permit I shall promise myself an answer and not otherwise 

I shall take the Liberty of Informing your Excellency from time to 
time of Those Points which Turn up in Congress and are interesting to 
the Publick in General or the Army in Particular and shall Continue This 
without expecting regular or Frequent answers 

I am happy that the Late Regulations are Pleasing to your Excellency ; 
and with you Lament that They were not Sooner adopted: But I can, 
with great Truth assure you that they are not now the offspring of Choice 
but necessity, which perhaps has been Lately Painted in more Striking 
Colors and has been more realized than formerly 

I am Sensible of the injurious Consequences of Sending out requisi- 
tions at so Late a Period. But I flatter myself That The States will yield 
a Chearful and Speedy Compliance as I have Seen an Act from Connec- 
ticut and Answers from other States which promise much Toward a 
Speedy Supply 

I will Endeavor to have it mentioned in Colo. Palfrey's Instructions to 
obtain materials in preference to ready made Cloathes for the reasons you 
mention ^ 

The means you have been pleased to point out are Fortunately adopted. 
Congress have in the most Decent and at the Same time in the most press- 
ing Terms Solicited a Loan * and I have Long Since without the knowl- 
edge of Congress Solicited the French Minister and Mr. Marbois to favor 
the application, which they have already Done by writing to the French 
Court warmly in favor of it 

I am fully Sensible of the Evils arising in the Cloathing Department 
a report is now on the Table for regulating it ; which I hope will pass this 
week.^ The mode you mention for future Provisions I hope will be 
adopted. We have had Cloathing Sufficient for the Army at Cape Fran- 
cois eighteen months and a Sufficiency on the Shores of France Since 
April Last : and we have had a number of Frigates Employed in useless 
adventures. 

This Clearly proves the Justice of your observation respecting The at- 
tention of Congress being Taken up in Trivial affairs while great Nations 
Concerns have been neglected. Several attempts have been made toward 

3 " Colo. Palfrey is appointed Consul and Commercial agent" [note by Sullivan]. 
Palfrey's appointment was on Nov. 4 ; his instructions are in the Journals, Dec. 9. See 
no. 546, post. 

* See nos. 461, 514, ante. 

^ The proposed regulation was reported Nov. 4, but was recommitted. Addi- 
tional regulations were proposed by the board of war Jan. 2, 1781, but it was not until 
June 18, 1781, that measures regulating the department were adopted. See also the 
Journals, Mar. 28, Apr. 2, 17, 1781. 



November, 1780 461 

a reformation, but to no purpose. You might almost as Soon Teach the 
Streams to rush back to their Sources as perswade Congress out of Their 
Ancient Tract. 

524. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 27th, 1780. 
Sir, 

Inclosed is an extract of a letter of the 23d of August last lately re- 
ceived from Mr. John Adams. As the intelligence relates particularly to 
your department, we thought it necessary to be forwarded to you." This 
is all the foreign intelligence worth transmitting you. As to domestic, we 
recollect none. 

No effectual means have as yet been taken for supplying the Southern 
army with clothing. The Committee to whom your letter (before you 
left Philadelphia) was refered have made no report yet.^ Your letter of 
the 19th inst. is refered to another committee, the result, we will give you 
the earliest information of.* 

We are Sir with sincere Esteem and Regard 

Yr. most Obedt. Servts. 

By Order of the Committee 

Jno. Mathews Chairman ^ 

525. James Madison to Joseph Jones.^ 

Philada. Novr. 28th 1780. 
D'r Sir, 

.... We have enclosed to the Govr a copy of an Act of the Legisla- 
ture of Connecticut ceding some of their territorial claim to the United 
States, which he will no doubt communicate to the Assembly. They re- 
serve the jurisdiction to them selves, and clog the cession with some other 
conditions which greatly depreciate it, and are the more extraordinary as 
their title to the land is so controvertible a one." .... 

The Association of the Merchants for fixing the depreciation seems 
likely to prove a salutary measure, it reduced it from 90 and 100 to 75 

[524]! William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

~ Adams's letter of Aug. 22, is in W~harton, Rev. Dipt. Corr.. IV. 41. 

3 The reference is probably to the letter of Oct. 27, referred the same day to a 
committee of five. 

* Greene's letter of Nov. 19 was read and referred to a committee Nov. 27. 

5 Mathews is here writing as chairman of the committee appointed July 8, 1779, 
as a standing committee to correspond with the commanding officer in South Carolina 
and Georgia. This committee came to be referred to in the Journals usually in a phrase 
in which " southern department " was substituted for " South Carolina and Georgia _", 
and by the committee itself as " the committee of correspondence ". The changes in 
membership in 1779 and 1780 are set forth in the lists of standing committees (Journals, 
XV. 1447, XVIII. 1230). Mathews was substituted for Henry Laurens (the original 
chairman) Nov. 10, 1779. 

[525]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 106; 
Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 69. 

2 The Connecticut resolutions of October 1780. See the Journals, Jan. 31, 1781, and 
nos. 563, 629, post. 



462 Continental Congress 

at once, which is its present current rate ; although it is observed that many 
of the retailers elude the force of it by raising the price in hard money. ^ 

526. Samuel Adams to James Warren/ 

Ppiiladelphia Novr. 29th, 1780. 
My dear Sir, 

In your Letter of the 17th of Septr. which is still before me you say 
that " the Tongue of Malice has always been employd against me ", and 
in mentioning it. you discover the Feelings of a Friend The Re- 
port you mention as propagated of me, is groundless. Would any Man in 
his Senses, who wishes that the War may be carried on with Vigor, prefer 
the temporary and expensive Drafts of Militia, to a permanent and well 
appointed Army? But Envy knows no other Business than to calumniate." 

527. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philada. 29th Novemr. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the Honor of writing to your Excellency yesterday. Col. Blaine 
being detained gives me the opportunity of adding that the Resolutions 
of our Legislature respecting their Quota of Troops to be provided for, 
remain still under Commitment." It is really difficult to establish an equal 
Rule of Justice in that Respect. I have thought of laying down this prin- 
ciple : that the Person who had gained a legal Settlement in any State at 
the period of his Inlistment should be transferred to that State. With 
respect to the artificers : that they should all be provided for by Congress ; 
not only on account of the Inequality of their pay ; but because the Burthen 
woud otherwise fall most heavily on the states which had large Capitals. 

How these Rules especially the first woud operate or whether they woud 
give Satisfaction ought well to be considered and I wish for your Excel- 
lency's Sentiments as soon as possible. 

Our Vermont business remains quiet ; but is not forgotten. I foresee 
there must be a Rehearing ; as there is a considerable Change in the House 
not for the worse; Nor will the late Conduct of those distracted People, 
if it is true that they have made a Truce with the Enemy, gain them 
Favour. I shall do my Duty at every Event. ^ .... 

2 Cf. no. 531, post. Jones's reply to this letter is in Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 62. 
[526]^ Warren-Adams Letters, II. 148. 

- Warren's letter is ibid., II. 138. 

[527]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 3393; Clinton Papers, VI. 447; 
Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, II. 83. 

- See no. 513, ante. 

3 See nos. 473, 475, 487, 513, 514, ante, and nos. 539, 635, post. 



November, lySo 463 

528. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia November 9th [30th ?] 1780.- 
Dear General, 

I was this morning Honored with your Excellency's favor of the 25th 
Instant : I shall be happy to see the Chevalier De Chattelieux and to pay 
him every mark of respect and attention in my Power : ^ 

The Confidence your Excellency is pleased to place in me is exceeding 
flattering and I can with great Truth assure you That no person Desires 
more to Comply with your wishes, relieve you from the anxiety you Suf- 
fer; (from Difficulties which as Commander of the Army you never ought 
to Experience) or to render your Troops happy in their Situation than 
myself. 

The appointment of General Smallwood was in the old State way. I did 
not oppose it for Political Reasons but I took that opportunity of Deliv- 
ering my Sentiments against those irregular and unmilitary promotions 
and upon various occasions Since and am happy to find that There is now 
a Large majority of the House of my Sentiments so that I am Convinced 
There will be no more of those irregular appointments of Course General 
Clinton and General Knox will not be Superceeded. The Latter if Driven 
to resign would be an irreperable Loss to the Army. 

I have conferred with a number of the most Confidential and most 
powerful members and have Secured their Interest so far as to assure me 
that the Event which your Excellency apprehended can never take place * 

As I have been fortunate Enough, to Dissuade a majority of the mem- 
bers from pursueing the old mode I expect soon to be called upon to point 
out a new one Liable to no objections and here I confess I shall be at a 
Loss owing perhaps, to my want of Capacity or possibly to the Confusion 
of having one Large Army Composed of Thirteen Small ones and wish 
Your Excellency would be so oblidging as to give me your Sentiments 
upon it and what you would wish to be the Rule of Promotion.'' 

To Rise Regimentally to the Rank of Captain and afterward in the Line 
of the State to a Colonel (which I take to be the Rule) admits of no great 
Difficulty, but the Rule has been Extended to Brigadiers and even to 
Major Generals. Now Let us Suppose that Major Generals are to be 
Created from the Eldest Brigadiers and the former Rule is to Stand good 
for promotion of Colonels to Brig'rs is not this a perpetual Bar to pro- 
motion of Colonels who belong to States which Supply but one or two 

[528] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 This letter is endorsed, " From Genl Sullivan 9th Deer. 1780 ". It could not 
have been written Nov. 9, since Sullivan acknowledges the receipt of Washington's 
letter of Nov. 25 ; and it is not at all probable that it was written Dec. 9, since a report 
made Dec. 4 is referred to as not yet presented. The last paragraph was evidently writ- 
ten as late as Nov. 30. 

3 Washington's letter to Sullivan, Nov. 25, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 39, 
(ed. Sparks), VII. 308. Sullivan is replying also to some matters in Washington's letter 
of Nov. 20. See no. 523, ante. 

•* Washington's apprehensions pertained to promotions that might affect unfavor- 
ably General Knox. 

5 See Washington's letter to Sullivan Dec. 17 (JVritings, ed. Ford, IX. 63, ed. 
Sparks, VII. 332). 

34 



464 Continental Congress 

regiments. Colonels of Such States may of Course be compelled to Serve 
under a Brigadier who a few years before Served under them over De- 
tachments, etc. as Captains. I See but one way to remedy this Evil which 
is to Rise from Colonels in the Line of the Army, perhaps there may be 
Consequences attending this which I am not able to Discover. I therefore 
wish to know your Excellency's Sentiments upon it. 

Your Excellencys Letter refered to was read in Congress and is Ref- 
fered to General Ward General Cornell and myself we shall Report upon 
it without Delay, and I hope agreable to Justice and Equity which I know 
is the Extent of your wishes upon this and Every other Matter.^ 

I have the honor to be with the most Lively Sentiments of Esteem and 
Respect Dear General Your most obedt Servt 

Jno. Sullivan 

529. Proceedings and Observations of the Committee of Finance, 

November 1780.^ 

Proposition by Mr. Mathews." That Congress Immediately call upon 
the Inhabitants of these States for all the Coined Silver and Gold and all 
the plate they can possibly Spare to be Lent to the united States on Secur- 
ity, with interest, agreed. 

agreed That a Resolution be Draughted for Calling in the old Bills and 
Supporting the Credit of the New See The resolution by Mr Clark and 
Colo Bland on File. 

proposition by Mr Sullivan for Draughting an address to the People 
to Induce them to lend their Coin and Bullion and also an address to the 
respective Legislatures requesting them to Encorage the loan agreed 

Proposition by Mr Clark that the address be to the Legislatures of the 
States and the Supply reed through them agreed ' 

6 The reference is to Washington's letter to Congress Nov. 26, read in Congress 
Nov. 30. It is printed, in part, in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 40 n. 

[529]! Mass. Hist. Soc, SulHvan Papers, Misc. This manuscript (34 pp., 6 by 8 inches) 
bears the title here used. Except as noted below (note 7) it is in the writing of John 
Sullivan. 

2 The committee from whom these proceedings and observations emanated was 
that appointed Nov. 7 "to prepare and lay before Congress a plan for arranging the 
finances, paying the debts and oeconomising the revenue of the United States ". See no. 
514, note 6, ante, 623-626, post. For some account of the committee of ways and 
means, a preceding committee which was largely concerned with the same subject and 
which in point of service overlapped this committee on finance, see no. 469, note 6, 
ante. After the proceedings and observations here recorded the committee further 
matured its conclusions and presented, Dec. 18, a report, with which these observa- 
tions should be compared. The report was discussed Dec. 22, taken up again Jan. 18 
and discussed for some two weeks, the outcome being a brief resolution Feb. 3. The 
discussion continued however, principally in committee of the whole, through much of 
the next five months. Mar. 6 it was resolved " that Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday in 
every week be assigned for the subject of finance, until the United States in Congress 
assembled, shall have come to a final decision on that subject"; and for some weeks 
Congress appears to have kept its resolve, with only occasional lapses. In the meanwhile 
a department of finance was created (Feb. 7) and Robert Morris placed at the head of 
it as superintendent (Feb. 20). Thereafter much but by no means all the discussion of 
financial measures had that department in view. Meanwhile also this committee on 
finance appears to have melted away or lost its leadership, other committees on special 
phases of the financial problem being created, and individual members pushing their 
own particular financial ideas to the fore. 

3 This paragraph appears to have been erased. 



November, ijSo 465 

Proposition by Colo Bland that the Several Legislatures be Directed to 
call in their State Emissions and not Issue any more Bills of Credit but 
by advice of Congress agreed 

Question by Mr Sullivan whether is the money if obtained to be De- 
posited in the General Treasury or in a Bank agreed to a Bank 

Proposition by Mr Sullivan That The Manager of the Bank or [ ] 
Strike and Sign a number of notes from a hundred pounds to an eighth 
of a Dollar, a quarter of which to be payable in one year one Or in two 
years another in 3 years and The Last Quarter in 4 years on Interest of 
six per cent Without Date. That the State Treasurers be Authorized 
to receive Coin and Bullion and Date and give out notes in Exchange. 

agreed That Congress recommend to the Several States to pass Laws 
Enabling them to Lay Imposts on Importations for raising a revenue to 
Defray the Expence of the war and for paying the Debts of the united 
States and to take every possible measure for encouraging exportations 

That the State of Maryland be Called upon immediately to accede to 
the Confederation and in Case of Neglect to Call upon the other twelve 
States to Confederate 

That the States be called upon Respectively to pass Laws Establishing 
Funds for Redemption of the Bills Emitted by virtue of the resolution 
of the i8th of March Last and also for authorizing Congress to Lay Em- 
bargoes in Time of \A^ar. 

That a manager of the Bank be appointed by Congress 

That the Bank be Regulated in the following manner.* 

agreed That some Mode must be adopted to establish the Credit of 
Congress. 

agreed by messrs Bland Clark and Sullivan that this can only be done 
by calling in Bullion. 

Said by Mr Matlock, this is not the only way : a Tax founded on Es- 
tablished Faith, will answer the same Purpose. 

Questions 

How can Bullion be called in and in what time 

How can a Tax founded on established Faith be made and collected 
and in what time. 

Mr Bland 

Proposes a Bank (or rather Several different Banks under the same 
Regulations) 

That Subscriptions be immediately opened in the United States and a 
Letter Draughted addressed to the feelings of the People requesting them 
to bring in their Silver gold and Copper coined and uncoined for estab- 
lishing a Bank for Supporting the Credit of paper notes to be Issued 
thereon in the following manner viz 

Every man who will bring in ninety five Dollars shall be credited on 
the Books one hundred and shall be entituled to receive an Interest of 
six per Cent in half-yearly Payments which stock shall be Transferrable 
by Power or Letter of attorney. 

■* A page and a half is here left blank, evidently with the intention of inserting 
the regulations. 



466 Continental Congress 

That notes shall be issued from the Bank for nine tenths of the money 
received payable in 7 years without Interest to pass as a Circulating me- 
dium. The remaining tenth is to be reserved for Drawing and redrawing. 

That all the Plate shall be coined into pieces of particular sorts as well 
as the Copper and the whole Deposited in the Bank as a Security for re- 
demption of the Bills at the Days of payment. 

That an Annual Tax in Specie shall be Collected Deposited in the Bank 
and appropriated as a sinking fund for paying the Interest due on stocks 
received and for redemption of the notes issued. 

That when the sum accumulated by Tax amounts to a certain given part 
of the sum in Stock (say one half) notes are to be exchanged for Specie 
at the Bank. 

Questions by Mr. Matlack 

If the money is to be Deposited in Bank and nine tenths of it only to be 
represented by paper notes where is the advantage of keeping your money 
in Bank and representing it with paper ? 

Answer ° 

Question If your Notes are Truly to represent Coin and to pass as 
such why shall the man who holds a note payable in 7 years and for which 
he has paid a valuable Consideration receive no interest while he who 
Deposits money in the Bank draws an Interest of six per Cent besides a 
Douceur, and will not this tend to Depreciate the notes and Inhance the 
Prices of Articles? ° 

Question will not the publick Suffer a loss by the coining of plate. 

Mr. Matlack 

In order to Show the Improbability of our Deriving any advantages 
from a Bank Consider the origin of Banks : he says they originated among 
Gold Smiths whose real property and Respectable Characters added to 
their being in the visible Possession of Large Quantities of the precious 
Metals gave them an unlimited Credit. 

He therefore Concludes that a Bank must be founded on a Credit al- 
ready Established and Cannot in its nature be the means for Establishing 
a Credit in the first Instance, or for Restoring a Lost Confidence. 

He Says that Congress have Lost their Credit and the first Steps must 
be to Re-establish it which if Done will answer every purpose and even 
make paper Bills answer us every purpose of Gold and Silver. To prove 
which he mentions an Emission of paper in Pensylvania Issued by an 
assembly in whom the People had the most unlimited Confidence founded 
on Land Security which passed as Specie though it Drew an Interest of 
Six per Cent for the use of the State 

He allows that Congress have not either this Confidence or the prop- 
erty to Pledge for redemption of their Bills 

Therefore recommends an immediate ratification of the association 
with an additional Clause obliging the States to pass Laws for funding 

^ Half a page is here left blank. 

^ Both at this point and after the next question large blank spaces are left, 
doubtless with a view to inserting the answers. 



November, lySo 467 

the Bills emitted by Congress not to be repeated But by consent or Direc- 
tion of Congress to this Mr. Bland agrees. 

He then Shows that in young Countries where the Increasing wealth 
appears by additional Cultivation only must have a Ballance against them 
which will Draw off their Specie to other and older nations with whom 
they have Commercial Connections whose wealth cannot appe[a]r by addi- 
tional Culture of Lands but by Specie in possession 

To turn this Ballance of Trade in our favor he Deems essential and 
proposes Ever}' Encouragement to Exportation and Large Duties on the 
importation of all the Luxuries of Life He also Recommends Sumptu- 
ary Laws but allows them to be attended with many difficulties in the 
execution. 

Mr Matthews agrees with Mr ^latlack on the Necessity of Sumptuary 
Laws. 

Mr Clark agrees with Mr Matlack in the addition to the Confederation 
and proposes that Congress Shall in addition have the absolute Controul 
of all the Ports in America. 
Mr. Sullivan 

Suppose that the obstruction of our Commerce by the war has not only 
prevented our paying in Specie The Debt due from America to Britain 
but has Layd us under a necessity of relying more on the manufactures 
of our own Country and prevented in great measure the Consumption of 
those Luxuries with which we once abounded, and for which Large Sums 
of money were drawn from this Continent. 

That the obstruction of the Custom House Channel which Drew im- 
mense Treasures from America and the variety of Channels opened by 
the French and British Army for Supplying the Farmers and others with 
Specie must prove that there is a much greater Quantity of the precious 
metals in America than at the Commencement of the War ; That the rea- 
son why this Specie does not appear is because the Introduction of a fluc- 
tuating paper Currency Daily Depreciating in value operated as a prohibi- 
tion To The holders of Specie to Throw it into Circulation Especially as 
Tender acts were attempted in almost every state and proved exceedingly 
injurious to those who had ventured their hard money into Circulation. 
But should he be mistaken in this Conjecture he says it will not be denied 
that The Coin and Plate in America will amount to a Large Sum in value 
and that this if procured will be of great advantage to these States, pro- 
vided Specie can be introduced as an auxilary to the Bills emitted on the 
i8th of Alarch without proving injurious or Destructive to them. 

He therefore proposes the following Plan, viz. That an address be sent 
to the Several states to be communicated to the People informing them 
of the true state of our Finances and the situation of our Publick affairs 
and requesting them to Furnish to the Publick Treasury Through the 
Treasurers of the respective states all Coined Silver and gold and all Plate 
which they can possibly be induced to part with and with this Requisition 
to Send the plan for repayment that they may be assured of payment in 
Specie with the Annual Interest. 



468 Continental Congress 

He says that as the Circumstances of this Country will not admit of 
establishing a Bank on the Principles of that of England or Amsterdam 
he Chuses to Consider the whole as a Transaction between Congress The 
Continental Treasurer and Individuals, and Conducted in the following 
manner vis. 

That Notes be given by the Treasurer to Each person for the Sum he 
shall furnish in four equal annual payments with Interest of six per Cent. 
That the plate and Copper be Coined and Deposited in the Treasury for 
payment of the notes with the Interest as they may become Due. 

That Congress in no Case draw more than half the Specie out of the 
Treasury and not This till They have previously forwarded to the States 
an Estimate with a Requisition of a Tax in Specie for the money so 
Drawn out with a Years Interest of the whole Sum in Bank which is to 
be Deposited there for the purposes aforesaid. 

That there be Annually an estimate of the expenditures of the ensuing 
year and Collected one half in the New Bills and the other half in Specie 
in Case the Specie will amount to a Sufficiency to pay The Sum Drawn 
from the Treasury with the Interest of the Sum in Bank and if not : then 
the Specie Tax is to be augmented to make that Sum and the paper Tax 
Diminished and for all the Surplus (if any should be) the Treasurer may 
Issue his notes payable in one year in Specie first deducting a years Inter- 
est That there may be no failure of payment or Defect of Credit. 

That in all payments Bills of the i8th of March be Considered as Specie 
and received as such and an allowance made for the Interest Due thereon, 
but that no person shall be Compelled to receive more than half his De- 
mand in those Bills the other half is to be made in Specie and every Tax 
is to be paid Equally in Specie and paper Except as Shall be found neces- 
sary to augment the Specie for the Reasons aforesaid. 

That all notes be redeemable on Sight at the Treasury after the time 
of payment is elapsed with the Interest Due at the time they are presented, 
and that the Interest on all notes be paid annually if requested. 

That in receiving paper Bills of the aforesd Emission by the respective 
Collectors of Taxes the Interest due thereon be allowed up to the time 
of their being received and that Congress may if they find it necessary 
re-Issue such Bills for Defraying the publick expences or may hold them 
out of Circulation if they think proper. 

That for a present Supply of Specie all the Continental vessels of war 
and all the Publick Stables and the Barracks at Cambridge and all Naval 
Stores be sold for Specie and Deposited in the Treasury Subject to the 
order of Congress to be Drawn out in Specie or by notes without Interest 
payable in one Year and in Case notes are Issued thereon Congress may 
Draw one half the Specie so deposited by them provided they first make 
a requisition for a Tax in Specie for the amount so Drawn with the Inter- 
est of the whole payable in one Year 

This will not be Liable to the objections made to Mr Blands Plan, 
Because Congress will ever have it in their power after the whole sum is 
Deposited to obtain the Loan of one half in Specie for a Year and of 
Course one third more money is represented than is really in Stock with- 



November, lySo 469 

out injury or Danger to the Lender as to the Residue remaining inactive 
in Bank while we are paying Interest for it two answers can be given 
1st that we never need pay Interest for more than two thirds of what is 
really in Circulation and that the money kept out of Circulation serves to 
uphold our Credit and by remaining out of Circulation will Lower the 
prices of articles and in the natural Course of Commerce Draw money 
from other nations to fill up the vacuum and Introduce that Level of 
money which must take place among all Commercial Nations. 

2dly that should the money itself be Thrown into Circulation you can 
only have two thirds as much in Circulation as upon the Plan proposed 
and This Instead of revolving round the Bank as a Centre will fly to those 
nations with whom we have Commercial Connections under the Disad- 
vantages of a Ballance of trade against us, which would soon Leave us 
in as great want of Specie as at present, for which reason I recommend 
all foreign Loans that may be obtained to be Deposited in the Treasury 
under the foregoing regulations 

The 2d objection to Mr Blands proposal can have no force against this 
plan. 

He recommends that all Treasurers Notes of which the time for pay- 
ment is Elapsed be received by the Collectors in Lieu of Specie allowing 
Interest thereon up to the Day of payment provided they be paid in one 
month after the Collectors warrants are Signed but in no Case to allow 
more than a months Interest after the Date of such warrant. 

He also Recommends that Every Person Interested in the Bills may 
have Liberty to Examine the Treasury and Inspect the Books to Satisfy 
himself of the State of it and the Treasurer is to Show him the Draughts 
of Congress and their requisition for a Tax in Specie to replace what may 
have been Drawn out. 

L'pon This Plan Let us Suppose two Millions to be Collected on the 
first Day of May 1781 notes being Issued payable to the Bearer with In- 
terest the whole will be represented by notes Congress then Draw out 
a Million in Specie and put it in Circulation There will then be Three 
millions in Circulation when in fact only two millions have been received 
and Congress only pay Interest for Two millions. 

To this it may be objected that Congress only have the Disposal of one 
million and asked why it would not be best for Congress to put the Two 
millions of Specie in Circulation at once ? To this he answers that though 
this objection might have weight between Individuals yet it cannot have 
the Same force in a State. The Business of Congress is to provide and 
support a proper Circulating medium for the State out of which they 
have a right to Demand from the States as much as will answer to De- 
fray the publick Expences and where there is not a Sufficiency of money 
to answer the Demands of the State Increasing it by representation on 
payment founded on a fixed and Certain plan for paper is essentially nec- 
essary, besides if you were to throw the whole into Circulation the Specie 
would Soon make its way to nations with whom we are Connected and 
which hold the Ballance of Trade against us. But on the present plan the 
Bank will be the vortex for Drawing all the money from persons who 



470 Continental Congress 

wish to Live on the Interest of their money and will Serve as a Centre 
to attract the notes and hold the Specie from flying to Distant nations. 

But another objection may be raised vis what Security will Individuals 
have for the repayment of their money 

Answer one half will Ever be in Stock which will be Sufficient for 
two years payment and if we Suppose that in two years the States will 
not or cannot furnish the Sums Drawn out we must have no faith in the 
virtue of the people or prospect of Supporting the war. To Illustrate this 
I will Suppose that Congress Sell their Armed vessels etc. for two million 
Sterling but this is not Sufficient by one million to Defray the Expence 
of the war for the year, and cannot hire sums for the purpose, what is 
to be Done ? Why upon the foregoing plan the whole is to be Lodged in 
Bank and notes issued and then a million drawn out in Specie This will 
put three million into Circulation and by Loosing the Interest of the mil- 
lion in Bank the Credit of your Bills is Supported while the Hoarding 
up that million Serves to Lessen the prices of articles and Consequently 
will if your paper is not too much Increased attract Specie from the neigh- 
bouring nations to fill the vacuum which this makes for However Para- 
doxical it may appear the only way to bring Large Quantities of Specie 
into a State is to Hoard up Large Treasures. 

If ^ common Reason and the Observation of Mankind did not evince 
the Truth of this Proposition the Reasoning of Mr. Hume on the Subject 
must convince every unprejudiced Mind. He after treating the Idea of 
the Balance of Trade as rather Chimerical says, 

" Suppose the four fifths of the Money in Britain to be annihilated in 
one Night and the Nation reduced to the Condition with reguard to Specie 
as in the Reigns of the Harrys and Edwards what would be the Conse- 
quence! Must not the Price of all Labor and Commodities sink in Pro- 
portion and every Thing be sold as cheap as they were in those Ages? 
What Nation then could dispute with L^s in any Foreign Market or pre- 
tend to Navigate or to sell Manufactures at the same Price which to us 
would afford sufficient Profit? In little Time therefore must this bring 
back the Money which we had lost and raise Us to the level of all the 
Neighbouring Nations? Where after We have Arriv'd We immediately 
lose the Advantage of the Cheapness of Labor and Commodities; and 
the farther flowing in of Money is stoped by Our fullness and Repletion 

" The only expedient by which We can raise Money above its proper 
level is the gathering up of large Sums into a Publick Treasury locking 
them up and absolutely preventing their Circulation this Fluid not com- 
municating with the Neighbouring Elements may by such an Artifice be 
raised to what height AVe please the immediate Consequence of such an 
Event would be the attraction of an Equal Sum from all the Neighbour- 
ing Nations. 

■^ From this point three pages of the manuscript (26, 27, and 28), that is, to the 
end of the quotation from Hume ("all the Neighbouring Kingdoms"), are in a writing 
other than Sullivan's, except that in the fourth paragraph Sullivan himself interpolated 
the words " wt of Silver ". The text has only " pounds ". 



November, 1/80 



471 



" So little are we commonly acquainted with this Principle that tho all 
Historians agree in relating uniformily so recent an Event as the immense 
Treasure amassd by Harry the seventh which they make amount to 
1,700,000 £ wt of Silver ^^'e rather reject their concurring testimony 
that admit [s] of a fact which agrees so ill with our inveterate Prejudices. 

" Tis indeed probable that Sum might be three fourths of all the Money 
in England. 

" But where is the Difficulty that Such a Sum might be amassed in 
twenty Years by a cunning rapacious Frugal and almost Arbitrary Mon- 
arch? Nor is it Probable, that the Diminution of Circulating Money was 
ever Sensibly felt by the People or ever did them any Prejudice. The sink- 
ing of the Prices of all Commodities would immediately replace it by 
giving England the advantage in its Commerce with all the Neighbouring 
Kingdoms." ^ 

By the foregoing Calculation we may readily Discover the State of 
money while in Bank and How Easy it is to Increase Either the Quantity 
of the paper or the Specie without those violent Shocks which States gen- 
erally feel on Such Changes. 

State of 2 Millions of Dollars in Bank with a Tax of 2 Millions of Dollars 
Annually to be Paid Equally in Specie and Paper Bills 













Paper Bills 












Drawn out of 












Circulation 


Time 


Specie in 
Stock 


Specie 
drawn out 


Notes For 
Circulation 


Specie in 
Circulation 


by Tax 

Increasing 

the Paper 

as the Specie 

Tax is 
Diminished. 


1st May 1781 


2 000 000 


I 000 000 


2 000 000 


I 000 000 




May 1782 after pay- 












ing the first notes. . 


I 500 000 


750 000 


I 500 000 


I 750 000 


I, 000 000 


May 1783 after pay- 












ing the 2d notes . . . 


I 000 000 


500. 000 


I 000 000 


2 250 000 


I, 250 000 


May 1784 after pay- 












ing the 3d notes. . . 


500 000 


250 000 


500 000 


2 500 000 


I 500 000 


May 1785 after pay- 












ing the 4[th] notes. 


250 000 


250 000 


000 000 


2 750 000 


I 750 000 




2 750 000 






5 400 000 9 



* The quotation is from Hume's essay on " Balance of Trade ", which first 
appeared in 1752. Between the first and second paragraphs there is an omission of sev- 
eral pages ; indeed the second paragraph is a compression of Hume's text. That the 
contributor of these pages to Sullivan's " Observations " had before him an edition 
earlier than that of 1770 is evidenced by the use, in the second paragraph, of the figures 
" 1,700,000 " pounds, which, in the edition mentioned, were changed to " 2,700,000 pounds ". 
See Essays, Moral, Political, and Literary, by David Hume, two volumes, edited, with 
preliminary dissertations and notes, by T. H. Green and T. H. Grose (London, Long- 
mans, Green, and Co., 1875), vol. L, pp. 330-345. 

9 The total should be 5,500,000 ; nevertheless the erroneous total is used in a para- 
graph below. 



472 Continental Congress 

There cannot be a possibility of This Plan Depreciating the paper Bills 
as the Demand for those Bills by Tax will be Annually Increasing while 
that of the Specie is Diminishing beside which Some auxiliary acts may 
Easily be Devised to keep up its value. 

The foregoing plan proves that 2 million Dollars with a Tax Dimin- 
ishing annually in Specie and Augmenting in paper will in four years Sink 
5400000 Dollars of your New Bill[s] pay all your Bank notes and 
Leave 2 milln. 7 hundred and fifty Thousd Dollars in Circulation and that 
the Interest will annually Decrease and that you at no time pay Interest 
for more than two-thirds of the Sum in Circulation and after the Second 
year not even a quarter of what Specie Congress Draw and Issue. 

Let us Suppose ^° that Two million in Specie and Plate is held out of 
Circulation by Individuals on account of the Incertainty of a repayment 
in case of its being thrown into Circulation. Congress want immediately 
to pay away one million and a half and also to furnish an Additional Sum 
of Two million as a circulating medium upon the foregoing plan Sup- 
pose 2 million is furnishd : Congress represent this in the hands of the 
Lenders by notes to that amount Then Borrow one half which they repre- 
sent by notes payable in a year without Interest and then Issue half of the 
Sum represented Calling for a tax to replace it This furnishes Congress 
with I m and a half and the publick with a Circulating medium of two 
millions more. 

530. Samuel Huntington to John Lawrence/ 

Philadelphia, Decem'r ist, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the nth ulto. hath been duly receiv'd and laid before 
Congress, and by them refer'd to the Board of Treasury who have not yet 
made their report.^ 

As I find myself under a necessity to remaining in Congress much 
longer than I expected, for it was my wish and full expectation to have 
returned home in Octo'r last, I am under the necessity of requesting that 
one hundred pounds in hard money may be sent me, and must desire your 
kind assistance to obtain an order from the Committee of pay table, or 
from whom else it may be necessary to procure the order, for that pur- 
pose, and send me the money by Brown, or the first safe oppertunity. 

Be assured. Sir, I should not make this request if I could with decency 
or comfort subsist without the money; let the money be charged to my 

10 Preceding this paragraph the following tentative lines are erased : " Let us 
suppose further that Congress want to obtain two million Sterling in Specie to furnish a 
Circulating medium of Three million and a half and That ". 
[530]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 161. 

- The Journals do not record the reading of Lawrence's letter or its reference 
to the board of treasury, but the board made a report Dec. 14, giving the date of the 
letter as Nov. 10 and that of the reference to the board of treasury as Nov. 24. The 
letter was a resignation of his office as commissioner of the loan office for the state of 
Connecticut, an office which he had held since October, 1776 (see the Journals, Nov. 6, 
1776). Lawrence was also treasurer of the state of Connecticut, and it is in the latter 
capacity that Huntington addresses him concerning money for himself. 



December, 1780 473 

account. I hope this request may be granted as I have never yet receiv'd 
for my services a sum equal to pay my necessary expences while attending 
in Congress 

531. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Decemr. 3, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Since I Last wrote you nothing has turned up worth your notice except 
General Leslie's having evacuated Virginia and was seen going off by 
Water ; I am apprehensive he is gone to join Lord Cornwallis at Carolina 

Congress are employed in making new Arrangements and rectifying 
Errors." Party Spirit is kept Down with some Difficulty. Vermont af- 
fair Sleeps at Present ; I apprehend it will revive in a Short Time ^ 

The merchants of Philadelphia have given The most Striking Proofs 
of their Patriotisme : when the Exchange took a Sudden Rise from 75 to 
125 they were called upon by the assembly and Entered into an associa- 
tion to fix the Exchange at 75 and published it in the Gazette. This satis- 
fied the assembly and Congress for a Season, they went Home Doubled 
the Specie prices of their Articles and receive 75 paper Dollars for one 
Silver one and of Course receive near Double the value for their Articles 
which they would have done had Congress and the assembly been Silent 
upon the Subject. I hope this kind of Patriotism will not extend itself to 
New Hampshire * 

I have the honor to be with the most perfect Esteem D'r Sir 

your most obedient Servant 

Jno. Sullivan 

532. Ezekiel Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
( William Greene) .^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 4 1780. 
When I did myself the honor to write to your Excellency last, I ex- 
pected before this to have been on my way home. I impatiently wait 
Genl. Varnums arrival, the money and bills of exchange would have 
been sent forward this day had it not been for a blunder of the Inspectors 
of the press, which was not discovered until more than half the bills were 
Struck, which must all be laid aside, the press set anew, and all the work 
done over againe by which means it will not be ready to go forward till 
Monday next. However strange it may appear, that the money and bills 
of exchange are not yet sent forward, I can assure you it cannot Justly be 
charged to my inattention to public business, and particularly what con- 

[531]^ N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 22. 

2 See nos. 512, 514, 528, ante. 

3 See nos. 513, 514, ante. The Vermont question was revived in Jul}', 1781, through 
a letter from President Weare dated June 20, read in Congress July 9. See the Journals, 
July 20, 1781, et seq. 

* Cj. no. 525, ante. 
[532]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 10; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 321. 



474 Continental Congress 

cerns the State.' this I believe will be allowed by the greatest Enemies 
I have in this place. 

Calumny and detraction runs high in this torifyed City, but I hope much 
good will come out of this Modern Nazareth, the General Assembly of 
the State, it seems, are now sitting, and have been for several weeks past, 
and appear to be determined to adopt vigorous measures, by filling their 
Continental line of the Army, furnishing the supplies recommended by 
Congress, together with many other good things among which is a spirited 
resolution for putting the new bills into circulation. In a word, they appear 
to be disposed to do whatever is incumbent on them, for the public good. 

The enemy left Virginia last Week, and it is supposed they are gone 
farther southward, perhaps to reinforce Cornwallis, as it appears by some 
late accounts from that Quarter, that the Militia, make themselves m.ore 
familiar in the neighborhood of his Lordship than he would wish. 

I beg" your Excellency will excuse me for not being more particular, 
as I can assure you, it is not for want of inclination, but merely upon 
principles of prudence, as I know not whose hands this letter will fall into, 
and as I expect soon to have the honor of an interview with you, when I 
flatter myself no man will be more happy than I shall in giving you every 
necessary information in my power ; and I hope it will be so far satisfac- 
tory as to convince you that I have not been inattentive to the Duties of 
the appointment with which I was honored. 

I have the Honor to be 

your Excellency's Most obedt. Humb. Servt. 

EzEK. Cornell. 

533. James Madison to Joseph Jones. ^ 

Phila'a 5th Deer. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I had yours of the 25th Ulto. by yesterday's post. I congratulate you 
on the deliverance of our Country from the distresses of actual invasion. 

We had letters yesterday from Mr. Jay and Mr. Carmichael as late 
as the 4 and 9th of September. Mr. Jay informs us that it is absolutely 
necessary to cease drawing bills on him; that 150,000 d'rs, to be rep'd 
in three years with some aid in cloathing etc. is all that the Court will 
advan[ce] for us." .... However unfavorable many of these particu- 
lars may appear, it is the concurrent representation of the above ministers 
that our disappointment of pecuniary succour at Madrid is to be imputed 

2 See no. 520, ante. 
[533]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. no; 
Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 69; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 60. 

2 The letters of Carmichael (Aug. 22, Sept. 6, 9) and that of Jay (Sept. 16), 
mentioned in the Journals, Dec. 4, are in Wharton, Rev. Dip]. Corr., IV. 38, 51, 59. 
Carmichael's letter of Sept. 6 does not appear under that date, but it is evidently the 
continuation of the letter of Aug. 22 as there printed. A summary bv Madison of the 
situation of American affairs in Spain, as set forth by Carmichael and Jay, is here 
omitted. A letter from Madison to Edmund Pendleton, Dec. 5, of much the same purport 
as this to Jones, is in Writings, I. 107. 



December, 1780 475 

to the want of ability and not of inclination to supply us, that the steadi- 
ness of His Catholic Majesty is entirely confided in by the French Am- 
bassador, and that the mysterious conduct of Mr. Cumberland and of the 
Court of Spain towards him, seems to excite no uneasiness in the Am- 
bassador. The letters add, that, on the pressing remonstrances of France 
and Spain Portugal had agreed to shut her ports against English prizes, 
but that she persisted in her refusal to accede to the armed neutrality. 

The receipt of the foregoing intelligence has awakened the attention 
of the Georgia Delegates to their motion of which I informed you par- 
ticularly by Col. Grayson.^ it has lain, ever since it was made undisturbed 
on the table. This morning is assigned for the consideration of it, and I 
expect it will without fail be taken up. I do not believe Congress will 
adopt it without the express concurrence of all the States immediately in- 
terested. Both my principles and my instructions will determine me to 
oppose it. Vir'a and the United States in general are too deeply inter- 
ested in the subject of controversy to give it up as long as there is a possi- 
bility of retaining it. And I have ever considered the mysterious and re- 
served behaviour of Spain, particularly her backwardness in the article 
of money as intended to alarm us into concessions rather than as the effect 
of a real indifference to our fate or to any alliance with us. I am very 
anxious, notwithstanding, to have an answer to my letter by Grayson. 



534. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Deer. 5 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of Nov. i6th with a Gazette reached me yesterday. You 
suffered so much in your mind and Body when here that I will not send 
you any of the ill pictures which with various Signatures come daily on 
to our Table. I hope you will find much Satisfaction in the short Letter 
from Genl. Gates. Wemyss was a very valuable officer to the Enemy. 

You may amuse yourself also as one of the medical Class by reading 
the Epistle of Rush to Shippen in which you will find the Writer has 
relieved himself a little upon me. Shenstone's Benevolence made him wish 
that he could afford to have his Pockets picked frequently. I feel a por- 
tion of his Spirit operating upon me at this Time ; When I see poor Rush 
swelled near unto Bursting, I cannot doubt but that he finds some Relief 
by throwing about his Slaver and Froth, therefore when it falls upon my 
Cloaths I slight the Injury because he finds so much Ease in his terrible 
Case.^ 

3 This was the letter of Nov. 25, no. 522, ante. Concerning the controversy 
between himself and Bland over the Mississippi question, discussed in the letter of 
Nov. 25 and alluded to in the close of this letter of Dec. 5, see also no. 521, ante, and 
nos. 540, 543, 548, 629, post. 
[52^y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 220. 

2 The Pennsylvania Packet is much occupied during the last four months of 1780 
with the triangular controversy among the medical chieftains, Morgan, Shippen, and 
Rush. First (beginning in the issue of Sept. 2) comes Dr. Morgan's "Appeal", which 
tuns through numerous issues, then Dr. Shippen's " Vindication ", even more voluminous, 



476 Continental Congress 

I have said to some of you my Friends last Week that Mr. Adams had 
in a masterly and Independent stile defended the Resolves of March i8 
against the opinions of Count de Vergennes 

That he (Mr. A.) cannot attempt to persuade Congress to alter a Re- 
solve the Wisdom and Justice of which has the fullest Approbation of his 
own Judgment and his most cordial Wishes for its Success; That as a 
plain and candid answer to a Question, he must say he thinks such Pro- 
ceedings the only Way to gain and preserve Credit abroad because they 
discover Wisdom Justice and also Vigor in the American Governments.^ 

I have injured his long Letter by these Extracts, but I give you and 
other friends some Satisfaction. 

535. James Lovell to James Warren/ 

Deer. 5, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

In your Letter of Sepr. 28 you make the most just Remarks upon the 
manner in which our naval Affairs have been fostered here ; I think it not 
becoming my Situation to say starved. 

Some days ago the Salaries given Sepr. 13 and 23 were made to have 
retrospect to Nov 2d 1778, but, yesterday, to Sepr. i 1777.^ 

By Letters from Spain reed, yesterday I find that our Friend Jos. Gar- 
doqui will be here to succeed Don Mirailles. Spain is slow towards alli- 
ance, well disposed as to Money for our Use, but, be assured, she wants it 
herself there. She may help us nearer home. She was upon a Scheme of 
getting some in France which Necker found out and stopped by his 
Influence.^ 

I shall not be able to hint these Things to Mr. Gerry. In short, I be- 
lieve I shall soon be obliged to omit taking Pen in hand except on Com- 
mittees ; * I shall otherwise neither serve the public nor my friends with 
propriety. Your Friend and humb Servt. 

[P- S.] . . . . 

with occasional controversial letters of Morgan and Rush interjected. The letter of 
Dr. Rush referred to by Lovell is in the Packet of Dec. 2, addressed " To doctor William 
Shippen, jun.". The passage to which Lovell particularly alludes is the following : 

"The honourable Mr. Lovell is entitled to your warmest gratitude for the zeal with 
which he screened you from justice. When I told him that you had transported the 
wine which you claimed as your own, in public waggons, I well remember that he said, 
that ' this was practiced by all the staff officers of the army ' ; and added, that ' men who 
handled public money, from the beginning of the world to the present day, were constantly 
envied '." 

2 Lovell summarizes Adams's arguments in his letter to Vergennes June 22, 
1780, in defense of the resolution of Congress Mar. 18, 1780, authorizing the redemption 
of old bills with new at the ratio of 40 to i. The matter came before Congress through 
a letter of Adams June 26, read Nov. 30, and referred to a committee of which Lovell 
was chairman. A report was brought in Dec. 6 and adopted Dec. 12. The whole cor- 
respondence is found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Con:, III. 805-808, 809, 818, 827, 828, 829, 844, 
See no. 155, ante, and nos. 537, 547, 557, 572, post. 

[535]^ Warren-Adams Letters, IL 153. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 15, Dec. 4. 

3 In the margin Lovell wrote, " No printing ". Cj. no. 533, ante. 

■* Lovell doubtless alludes to the fact that some of his recent letters had been 
intercepted and published in Rivington's Gazette. See no. 518, ante, and no. 604, post. 



December, 1780 477 

536. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor and 
Council of Maryland.^ 

December 5, 1780. 
Gentletnen, 

Your Letter of the 226. last relative to the Cattle at the Head of Elk 
did not come to our Hands 'till the 2d inst. — and yesterday we laid it 
before the Congress — they have refered it to the Board of War with 
Directions to take immediate Order." 

537. James Duane to George Washington/ 

Confidential. 

Philadelphia 9th December 1780. 
My dear General, 

I shou'd not so long have restrained the Expressions of a Heart flow- 
ing with the most affectionate and respectful attachment if Care had not 
been taken to communicate our Intelligence officially. In the mean time 
I have never found it so necessary to devote my attention to the publick 
business. Amidst pressing distresses it will give your Excellency pleasure 
to be assured that Congress have deliberated with unanimity, and decided 
with firmness ; and that every thing within their power is nearly accom- 
plished for vigorous Efforts in the Course of the next year. If the States 
will draw forth their Resources : if our Ally will seriously cooperate by 
assuming a naval superiority in the American Seas: if we are seasonably 
furnished with the Clothing Arms and Ammunition which we have rea- 
son to expect; and obtain the aid of money which we have once more at- 
tempted to borrow : if these Circumstances in any tolerable degree Com- 
bine, your Excellency will at last see a prospect, under the divine blessing 
of finishing the war with Glory. 

But it is obvious that we have many difficulties to encounter. Govern- 
ment instead of possessing the Confidence and the Dignity necessary to 
enforce it's Counsels, is surrounded by clamorous Creditors and insidious 
speculators, and what is worse the Intemperance of our Friends conspires 
with the malice of our Enemies to render it odious. Congress may err : 
they are not exempt from State and personal prejudices ; they are liable 
to be deceived ; But nothing is more certain than that in the common Cause 
their Intentions are pure, their Zeal, their Cares, their pains, unbounded; 

[536]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 88; Arch, of Md., XLV. 195. The letter is signed 
by Plater and Hanson. 

2 The council's letter of Nov. 22 is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 221. Cf. ibid., pp. 184, 
192, 196, 202, 217, 218. This little episode goes far to explain why the army was so 
often without meat. Sept. 21 Congress sent an urgent request to Maryland for an 
immediate supply of 500 head of cattle (see nos. 447, 449, ante). The governor ordered 
them purchased, in so far as procurable, and sent to the Head of Elk, the place 
designated by General Washington for the deposit of other supplies to be furnished by 
the state. When the cattle were driven to that place the Continental officers stationed 
there refused to receive them or forward them to the army, alleging not only a lack 
of money, but that it was no part of their business. The immediate consequence was 
that it was necessary to sell a part of the cattle to buy feed for the remainder. What 
action was taken by the board of war has not been discovered. 

[537]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
in. 169. 



478 Continental Congress 

and the Time will come, when if their measures are not admired they will 
be approved. Indeed, Sir, an honest and disinterested Patriot requires 
uncommon Fortitude to render himself responsible in an hour of such in- 
tollerable Licentiousness : Those who place their Happiness in Repu- 
tation retire from a Theatre where, while they are tortured by publick 
distresses, they are in danger of disgrace. The Intreagues of Speculators 
are more and more alarming. Our paper money lately suffered a Convul- 
sion, without any apparent Cause, which threatened its total dissolution. 

Not contented with the infinite Evils which they have entailed on their 
Country; they have practised their arts on the Cabinet of France; and 
with such success that one of our ministers received a formal Intimation 
that the Chevalier de la Luzerne wou'd be instructed to remonstrate 
against the Act of the i8th of March as a violation of publick faith, and 
an Injury to the trading part of that nation which ought to be repaired. 
Mr. Adams has acquired Applause by a Memorial to Count de Vergennes 
on this subject full of Good sence and dignity." The necessity and the 
Justice of that memorable system are vindicated by Reasons and Facts 
which force Conviction. The Capital Figure which the french factors 
made in drawing on the Depreciation and their Avarice in striving to 
exact specie for the nominal sums of the Bills, when it is notorious that 
they raised the price of their Commodities in proportion to the current 
Exchange are exposed ; and it is demonstrated that instead of suffering 
they greatly profited by that national Calamity. Nor is the proper Infer- 
ence neglected that a Government capable, in a free Country, of executing 
a plan so disgusting to the self interested, must possess unlimited Confi- 
dence, and be established on the firmest Basis. I am perswaded that this 
seasonable Representation will remove every prejudice, and prevent the 
Effects of an attempt big with Ruin ! 

Another great difficulty which embarrasses us is the absolute Depen- 
dence which we are compelled to place on the Exertions of the States 
individually. A failure in one may draw upon us insupportable distress. 
If the supplies of provisions should be punctually furnished the transpor- 
tation alone is an Expence of such magnitude that I never think of it but 
with anxiety, especially when we consider how deeply pecuniary Taxes 
are anticipated by Certificates in the hands of the Farmers. There is a 
remedy but whether we have a sufficient degree of public spirit to apply it 
can only be known In' Experiment. Wliy shou'd not the opulent con- 
tribute, the whole or a large proportion of their plate? Why shou'd not 
the Farmer break in upon his Capital if his annual produce is incompe- 
tent? Nothing is clearer than that this wou'd be the truest Oeconomy, 
as a foundation wou'd be laid to terminate the war by a great and decisive 
Effort. These are Resources in the power of every Legislature, and I 
shall think them inexcuseable if, seeing the necessity to be so urgent, they 
shrink from the Burthen. A Duty on Imports Exports and prizes will be 
strongly recommended by Congress; and if approved by the States, it must 
produce a considerable Revenue.^ 

2 See no. 534, ante, and nos. 547, 557, 572. post. 

3 See no. 529, ante, and the Journals, Dec. 18. 



December, ijSo 479 

We have made an Estimate of the national Expense for a year from 
next January.* Except the Quarter master's branch it is tolorably accu- 
rate. I shou'd be happy if our means to defray it were certain and ade- 
quate : but this is not to be rehed on, unless we are effectually roused by 
a sense of our common danger, and the necessity of concluding with Glory 
and Expedition, a War of devastation. Every liberal hand must be 
opened ; every patriotic heart must be animated, every publick and private 
effort must be exerted to strengthen and support our Army, to give weight 
to our national Counsils, and secure them obedience at home and repu- 
tation abroad. W'ithout the first the Courage Perseverance and military 
Accomplishments of our General must be frustrated : without the last it 
wou'd be madness to hope for Credit alliance or Respect from foreign 
powers. 

After a studied Contempt of the Power of our Enemy which has 
marked the progress of our Contest, too great a dependence on foreign 
succour claims a Rank in our political Errors. I speak of the publick opin- 
ion, exempting Congress as I ought from a share in this Folly. Charmed 
with a Revolution so friendly to the rights of human nature, and so 
humbling to the Insolence of Brittain, the People were too apt to imagine 
that the Coffers of Europe wou'd be emptied into our Lap without reserve. 
But to say nothing of the Dutch; experience has shewn that the Spaniards 
on whom we principally relied, are not to be moved by disinterested Con- 
siderations. That Cabinet does not imitate the French in liberality. They 
view the Contiguity of those States to the Source of their Treasures, and 
their rising greatness, with a sufficient degree of Jealousy. They are cau- 
tious of our alliance unless they can acquire solid advantages. They are 
courted by England and tempted by offers which tho' they cannot accept 
without sacrificing their Honour, their family compact, and the Esteem 
of the northern powers ; they yet seem to countenance as a mean to lead 
us to concessions of which we cannot think without Reluctance. On no 
other principle are Cumberland's residence at Madrid, or the dilatoriness 
which has accompanied the Treaty to be reconciled. \\'\\h. respect to a 
Loan, if their Inclination was ever so prompt, it appears to me either that 
their Funds are not productive; or that their Oeconomy is even worse 
than our own. They might however interpose their Responsibility as they 
have already done for the bills which we have drawn, and for the Cloath- 
ing which they have supplied, and it wou'd afford us essential Relief. 
These Hints will open another Field of Embarrassment, the Extent of 
which your Excellency will fully perceive. 

I shall only add to the Catalogue that we have advice that Sir Henry 
Clinton has written to his Court for a strong Reenforcement, or leave to 
retire from his command : that he has received an approbation of his Con- 
duct in flatering terms, and a promise of support, and that orders are ac- 
cordingly issued for raising a Regiment of Cavalry and nine of Infantry. 

I have drawn this Letter to an immoderate Length : ascribe it to a de- 
sire of possessing you of my own View of our publick affairs as far as I 
am at Liberty 

* See no. 469, note 6, and no. 514, ante. 
33 



480 Continental Congress 

I will only add that the Visit of the French noblemen has given pleasure. 
The Chevalier Chateliux particularly recommends himself by his agree- 
able manners and literary Accomplishments/ Be pleased to pay my most 
respectful Compliments to Mrs. Washington. I was greatly mortified at 
her passing thro' this Town without my Knowledge as I wished to have 
done myself the Honour of attending her to Trenton. 

P. S. Your Excellency has remarked that the Communications with 
which you Honored me on the arrangement of the army hospitals, etc. 
have had their Effect. 

538. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia December 9, 1780. 
Sir, 

I do myself the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Extract 
of a Letter from Europe. What Reinforcement Great Brittain may be 
able to send to America, is with us uncertain 

The partial Successes against Lord Cornwallis, and the rising Spirit 
of the Militia in that Quarter it is to be hoped will much disconcert the 
British in their intended Operations. Above all, should we be able to form 
a respectable Army of regular Troops to the Southward, their Hopes must 
end in Disappointment 

Should the Intelligence from Holland and Portugal prove true respect- 
ing the armed Neutrality, it cannot fail to have a powerful Influence in 
our Favour.^ 

539. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)."^ 

Philadelphia Decemr. nth 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I am honored with your two favors of the 20th Ulto. with the In- 
closures they came to hand this morning the one respecting Mr. De La 
Tour was immediately referred to a Committee of which I am a member 
we shall immediately wait on the French Minister Examine the Laws re- 

^ This was the Chevalier de Chastellux, major-general in the French army. The 
other French noblemen mentioned in Washington's letter to Rochambeau, Dec. 10 
(Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 47, ed. Sparks, VII. 318), as having visited him were: the 
Viscomte de Noailles, the Comte de Damas, aide to Rochambeau, the Comte de Custine, 
and the Marquis de Laval. These, together with the Chevalier Du Plessis, were given let- 
ters of introduction (Nov. 27, Dec. 7) from Washington to the President of Congress. 
Dec. 17 Theodorick Bland wrote to Governor Jefferson to introduce to him " the Marquis 
de La Valle and the Count de Guistine ", who had been introduced to him by the minister 
of France and the Marquis de Lafayette. (Copy, from the original, in possession of 
the Carnegie Institution.) 

[538]^ Library of Congress, W^ashington Papers. 

2 The extract enclosed was from the letter of Jonathan Williams, read in Con- 
gress Dec. II. December 9 was Saturday, and doubtless the letter arrived too late to 
be read in Congress that day. See nos. 541, 542, post. 

[539]^ N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 25. 



December, lySo 481 

fered to Settle the Point with him and immediately report to Congress 
the Result shall be communicated to you without Loss of time ^ 

I am Sorry that General Bayley ^ should Suffer himself to believe a 
Report which has no foundation in Truth. I never opposed a Decision 
of the Vermont Dispute, I opposed the mode urged by the New York Dele- 
gates which was for Congress to give Judgment without the Intervention 
of Commissioners I urged that this was against the Confederation and 
That the Judgment would be invalid but I urged the appointing Commis- 
sioners to Decide the Claim I was Ever of Opinion that the time Chosen 
was very improper and feared those Consequences which by Aliens pro- 
ceedure Seam but too likely to follow I knew That it was not a Time for 
America to Court New Enemies or add to the Number of the Disaffected. 
I did mention this in Congress and however Strong my Particular Attach- 
ments may be I must Ever keep the good of the whole in view as the pri- 
mary object and I Sincerely wish the Gentlemen from New York had 
been Influenced by the same motive. Should those People Join the Enemy 
They would prove very Dangerous Foes and I am Sorry that the impa- 
tience of New York furnished them with a pretext but whatever may be 
[the] Event the Moderate Conduct of New Hampshire must Secure that 
State from Reflections I will as Soon as possible bring Congress into 
Some Decisive measures for if the present Suspicions are well founded 
vigorous and Decisive Exertions only can atone for The precipitate and 
imprudent Steps which Congress have been Driven into by the Delegates 
of new york 

General Baileys reasoning is Truly ridiculous he thinks that a People 
who could Join the Enemy upon a mere Suspicion that Congress might 
give Judgment against them would at once Loose both the power and 
Inclination by its being reduced to a Certainty and Judgment proclaimed 
against them this kind of reasoning is too Triffiing to merit a Serious 
Answer, and I am Sensible of the Disadvantages you mention which have 
Long been felt by our State and am happy that under all those Disadvan- 
tages New Hampshire has preferred the publick good to Every other Con- 
sideration. This as well as the whole of her Political Conduct must do 
her the highest Honor * 

I Lament Exceedingly the Deranged State of our Finances and the 
Distresses of the People and have the pleasure to assure you that Measures 
are now adopted which I am Convinced will afford the necessary relief 
but as order cannot Succeed Confusion in a moment, Patience and perse- 
verance must still be kept in Action an Envoy Extraordinary is appointed 
to proceed to f ranee for Supplies of money Cloathing etc. back[ed] by the 
French Embassadors and all the French Gentlemens Interest and I doubt 

~ De la Tour, a French citizen residing in Portsmouth, had had a controversy 
with the town over a question of taxation which involved the treaty with France. See, 
further, nos. 559, 624, 635, post. It was not until Feb. 5, 1781, that action was taken on 
the case. 

3 Brig.-Gen. Jacob Bayley. 

* Cj. nos. 438, 461, ante, and no. 635, post. 



482 Continental Congress 

not of its being obtained ^ we have another Plan of Finance nearly Com- 
pleated which in my opinion will give great and Speedy relief.^ I trust 
the whole will be soon Communicated to you officially and I Trust will 
receive your approbation My Time or Paper will not permit me to give 
you a proper Idea of it in this Letter I expect Hourly Cloathing to Ar- 
rive Sufficient for the whole Army which will relieve you from Some of 
your present Embarrassments. 

The present is a time for the tryal of [Pub] lick virtue and am happy 
in thinking wit[h you] that the Patriotic Sons of New Hampshire [will] 
not be behind hand with any ; nay that they will According to Custom be 
the most forward in their Exertions for the Publick good 

I have the Honor to be with the most perfect Esteem and regard 

Dear Sir your most obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Sullivan 

540. James Madison to Joseph Jones. ^ 

Philada. D'r 12th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Agreeably to your favor of the 2d inst't which came to hand yesterday, 
I shall send this to Fredericksb'g. I am sorry that either your own health 
or that of your lady should oblige you to leave the Legislature before the 
principal business of the session is finished. I shall be still more sorry if 
either of these causes should disappoint my hopes of your return to 
Philada. at the promised time. I am the more anxious for your return 
because I suppose it will supersede the proposed measure of sending an 
envoy to Congress on the business you mention.^ If the facts are trans- 

^ The proposition to send a special envoy to France to solicit aid appears to 
have been first brought before Congress in the resolutions offered by the Georgia dele- 
gates Nov. 18, which were taken under consideration Dec. 5. Dec. 8, on a motion by 
Sullivan and Bee, Congress resolved upon the appointment of an envoj^ extraordinary 
to the court of Versailles to solicit, in conjunction with the minister plenipotentiary at 
that court, the aids which Congress was requesting in a memorial adopted Nov. 22 (see 
no. 540, note 3, post). Congress had likewise already resolved to send a consul to France, 
principally for the purpose of facilitating the forwarding of these supplies (see no. 546, 
note 3, post). Nominations for the mission (Alexander Hamilton, John Laurens, Alex- 
ander McDougall, and Jonathan Trumbull, jr.) were offered Dec. 9, and Dec. 11 John 
Laurens was unanimously chosen. Preceding the election on Dec. 11 Witherspoon, 
who had taken his seat only on the 9th, endeavored, with the aid of his colleague 
William Burnet, to bring about a reconsideration of the resolution of Dec. 8, presumably 
with a view to altering the language of the resolution, as was later done. The motion 
failed at this time, but on Dec. 21 a reconsideration was obtained and, upon a motion by 
Duane and Madison, the title was changed to " minister ", and the qualifying clause, 
"in conjunction with our minister plenipotentiary at that court", was eliminated. These 
alterations were made by Secretary Thomson not only in the resolution of Dec. 8 and 
in the record of the election, but also in Witherspoon's motjon, Dec. 11. Laurens's 
commission, instructions, and letter of credence were adopted Dec. 23, and additional 
instructions Dec. 27. On Dec. 28 the board of admiralty was ordered to fit out the 
Alliance to convey him to France. See nos. 540, 546, 547, 553, 562, 563, 567, 572, 600, 
post. An account of the mission is in Wallace, Life of Henry Laurens (Appendix I.), 
pp. 478-487. 

^ See no. 529, note 2, ante, and the Journals, Dec. 18. 
[540]-^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings of Madison (ed. 
Hunt), L 112; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), L 72. 

2 With regard to the proposed special envoy to Congress, see Jones's letter of 
Dec. 2 (Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 57), and nos. 610, 647, 649, 660, 661, post. 



December, 1780 483 

mitted by the Speaker of the Assembly or the Executive, may they not be 
laid before Congress with as much efficacy by the estabhshed representa- 
tives of the State as by a special messenger? And will not the latter mode 
in some measure imply a distrust in the former one, and lower us in the 
eyes of Congress and the public? The application to the C't of France 
has been anticipated.^ Congress have even gone so far as to appoint an 
Envoy Extraordinary to solicit the necessary aids. Col. Laurens was in- 
vested yesterday with that office. I leave the measure to your own re- 
flection.* How far it may be expedient to urge Spain to assist us before 
she is convinced of the reasonableness of our pretensions, ought to be well 
weighed before it be tried. The liberty we took in drawing on her for 
money excited no small astonishment, and probably gave an idea of our 
distress, which confirmed her hopes of concession on our part. Accts. re'd 
since my last repeat her inflexibility with reg'd to the object in question 
between us. It is indispensable that we should in some way or other know 
the Ultimate sense of our constituents on this important matter.^ Mr. 
Laurens is certainly in captivity. An Irish paper tells us he was com- 
mitted to the Tower on the sixth of Octr. under a warrant from the three 
Secretaries of State.® .... 

3 As early as Oct. 7, on motion of Sulliyan, seconded by Mathews, a committee 
(Howly, Van Dyke, Ingersoll, and Henry) was appointed to draft a memorial to the 
court of Versailles for the purpose of securing aids and supplies. Nov. i the committee 
brought in a report, which was recommitted, and Nov. 11 another draft was presented, 
which was taken into consideration Nov. 17, in connection with a report of the com- 
mittee of estimates and ways and means (presumably the report found in the Journals, 
Nov. 8). The result of that day's deliberations was a resolution to ask France for a 
loan of twenty-five million livres. The report of the committee of ways and means 
was further considered Nov. 21 and 22 and agreed to, although no resolutions as coming 
from that committee are there recorded. The next entry is : 

" Ordered, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare instructions to accom- 
pany the letter agreed to." 

The proposed letter to the king of France, " On the report of a committee ", which 
follows, after some intervening matter, ought no doubt to precede the order above 
quoted. The fact that the draft of this letter is in the writing of James Duane, who was 
not a member of the committee appointed to draw up the memorial but was a member 
of the committee of ways and means, suggests that either, after the failure of the former 
committee to meet the requirements, Duane v.'as called upon to draw up the letter for 
the committee, or else he drew it as a member of the committee of ways and means. 
Duane was also of the committee (with Madison and Houston) to draw up the instruc- 
tions to Franklin which were to accompany the letter and himself drew those instruc- 
tions, which were, however, somewhat amended in Congress. See the Journals, Nov. 
25, 28. 

* See no. 539, note 5, ante. 

^ That is, the free navigation of the Mississippi. See nos. 522, 533, ante, and nos. 
543, 548, 629, 661, post. 

* In a letter to Pendleton {Writings, ed. Hunt, I. 109), dated " Decemr. 1780", 
but evidently written Dec. 12, Madison says : "An Irish paper informs us that Mr. Laurens 
was committed to the Tower on the 6th of Octr. by the three Secretaries of State 
on suspicion of high treason. As the warrant with the names of the Secretaries sub- 
scribed with some other particulars is inserted, no hope remains of the fact being a 
forgery." 



484 Continental Congress 

541. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

[December 12 ?, 1780.] 

Sir, 

We have the honor to enclose your Excellency a Resolution of Congress 
of the 6th instant, relating to the Convention troops," also a copy of a 
letter from G. Anderson found among the dead letters in the post office 
and communicated to Congress by the Post Master. If there should be 
occasion for the original of the latter, it shall be transmitted on the first 
intimation.^ 

An Irish paper informs us that Henry Laurens Esqr. was committed 
to the Tower on the 6th of October by a warrant from the Secretary of 
State, on suspicion of High Treason. All the despatches entrusted to the 
same conveyance unfortunately fell into the hands of the Enemy at the 
same time. 

A letter from Mr. Jonathan Williams dated at Nantz Oct: 17th con- 
firms an account received several days ago of the Ariel commanded by 
P. Jones Esqr. and containing cloathing etc for the Army, being dis- 
masted and obliged to return into port. The effect of this delay will be 
severely felt by the troops, who have already but too much reason to 
complain of the sufferings they have been exposed to from a want of 
these necessaries.* 

The same letter from Mr. Williams, as well as some others received 
within a few days give us reason to believe that Portugal has at length 
yielded to the solicitations of the Neutral Powers and to the remonstrances 
of France and Spain, so far as to accede to the general object of the 
former, and to exclude the English from the privileges which their vessels 
of War have heretofore enjoyed into their ports 

542. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 12th, 1780. 
Sir, 

The inclosed extracts appear as sufficiently interesting, to induce us to 
forward them to you. The reiterated information we have lately received 
from different quarters leave little room to doubt, that the Southern States 
will be the grand theatre of war this ensuing winter and spring. 

The Waggons with stores for the army under your command, with two 
Companies of Artificers, are now on their way to join you. 

[541]! Ca/. Va. State Papers, I. 395 (where the signers are given as Madison and 
Bland). 

2 See Jefferson to the speaker of the House of Delegates (Benjamin Harrison), 
Dec. 29, to the President of Congress, Jan. 15. and to the governor of Maryland the 
same day, in Writings, ed. Ford, H. 391, 413, 415; Official Letters, II. 253, 278. 

3 Jefferson's reply. Jan. 15, 1781, is in Official Letters, II. 276. See also his 
letter to Benjamin Harrison, Jan. 29, ibid., p. 304. Cj. no. 629, post. 

4 Cj. no. 538, ante, and no. 542, post. The letter from Jonathan Williams was 
read Dec. 11. 

[542]! William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 



December, lySo 485 

Nothing has been as yet done to supply your troops with cloathing. 
Capt. Jones had sailed with the cloathing, but being disabled a few days 
after he got to sea, was obliged to sail back to be refitted. By a letter 
recei[ved] yesterday from Mr. Williams at Nantz, he informs us, that 
the Vessels will be ready to sail again in a few days. They will have on 
board, made and materials suficient for making, 20,000 suits of cloathes, 
with some hats, stockings, shirts. Overalls, Shoes, and Stocks and barrels 
and locks for 20,000 muskets, and 100 tons of saltpetre." 

The article of intelligence contained in the inclosed extracts, respecting 
Portugal seems to be pritty well [authenjticated by subsequent advices. 

We have received no late intelligence of the enemies movements at 
New York. They appear to be quiet at present. 

W^e are Sir with much Respect and Esteem 

Yr. most Obdt. Servts. 

By Order of the Committee 

Jno. Mathews Chairman ^ 

543. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia, December 13th 1780. 
Sir, 

The complexion of the intelligence received of late from Spain, with 
the manner of thinking which begins to prevail in Congress with regard 
to the claims to the navigation of the Mississippi, makes it our duty to 
apply to our constituents for their precise, full and ultimate sense on this 
point. 

If Spain should make a relinquishment of the navigation of that river 
on the part of the United States an indispensable condition of an alliance 
with them, and the State of Virginia should adhere to their former deter- 
mination to insist on the right of navigation, their delegates ought to be 
so instructed, not only for their own satisfaction, but that they may the 
more effectually obviate arguments drawn from a supposition that the 
change of circumstances, which has taken place since the former instruc- 
tions were given, may have changed the opinion of Virginia with regard 
to the object of them. If, on the other side, any such change of opinion 
should have happened, and it is now the sense of the State that an alliance 
with Spain ought to be purchased even at the price of such a cession if it 
cannot be obtained on better terms, it is evidently necessary that we should 
be authorised to concur in it. It will also be expedient for the Legislature 
to instruct us in the most explicit terms whether any and what extent of 

2 Cf. nos. 538, 541, ante. 

^ See no. 524, ante, and no. 544, post. 
[543]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers (addressed: "James Madison Esqr. 
late President, Orange County Virginia", and with the following memorandum appended: 
"Richmond, Augt. 31st 1819. The foregoing is a true copy of a document communicated 
by Governor Jefferson to the General Assembly, filed in my office. Wm. Mumford, 
Keeper of the Rolls") ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 74; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 102. 



486 Continental Congress 

territory on the east side of the Mississippi and within the hmits of Vir- 
ginia, is in any event to be yielded to Spain as the price of an alHance with 
her. Lastly, it is our earnest wish to know what steps it is the pleasure of 
our Constituents we should take, in case we should be instructed in no 
event to concede the claims of Virginia either to territory or to the navi- 
gation of the abovementioned river, and Congress should without their 
concurrence agree to such concession. 

We have made use of the return of the Honble. W. Jones to N. Caro- 
lina to transmit this to your Excellency, and we request that you will 
immediately communicate it to the General Assembly. " 

We have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect and esteem, 
yr. Excelly's most obt. and humble servants, 

James Madison Junr. 
Theok. Bland. 

544. John Mathews to Nathaxael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 13th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favor from Richmond some days ago, and should have 
replyed to it sooner, but I had not time when the last opportunity offered.^ 

I am in hopes this will reach you at Headquarters, where I have been 
long anxious for your arrival, that we might have your opinion of the true 
state of our affairs there. I can almost anticipate it, that is, that it will be 
gloomy enough. The British fleet leaving Portsmouth, convinces me 
their destination is now for Chs Town, the consequence of which will be, 
Cornwallis will be so effectually reinforced, as to put it out of your power 
to do any thing important — however I shall defer any further remarks 
on this subject untill we hear from you after your arrival at the army. 

2 See nos. 521, 522, 533, ante. Jefferson replied Jan. 18, 1781 (Writings, ed. Ford, 
II. 424; Official Letters, II. 285), transmiting a resolution of the Virginia assembly 
for the guidance of the delegates. See, further, the Journals, Jan. 29, Feb. 15, 1781, and 
nos. 548, 629, 661, post. 

About this time Gouverneur Morris wrote to Robert R. Livingston, commenting on 
late proceedings of Congress : " Our politicks are, as usual, comprized under the 

short epithet with a long meaning — s-l-o-w The question of the Mississippi hath 

lately been again agitated in Congress. Virginia, it seems, disapproves of all Cession 
and concession there, and so instructs her Delegates. D — n- [Duane], I am told, voted 
against settling the matter a I'aimable with Spain. He spoke against it. He doubted, 
whether it was not of more consequence 'not to offend Virginia than Spain.' Is this a 
New York sentiment? Do not mention this to any body, for I would not injure him." 
Morris further advises Livingston to urge that \'ermont be made sovereign, free, and 
independent ; then " laugh at the world— Laugh loudly at the fools who court extensive 
unwieldv Dominion" (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, copy). 
Livingston endorsed the letter as "Reed. Jan. 1781 ". He replied, Jan. 18, " Glad . . . . 
you have at last come into my sentiments with respect to the Grants" (ibid.). 

[544]! William L. Cements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 It may not be amiss to explain to twentieth-century readers that this eighteenth- 
century phrase, as here used, does not mean an opportunity for writing, but an oppor- 
tunity for having the letter conveyed to (at least toward) its destination. In this 
instance the opportunity was probably Willie Jones, delegate from North Carolina, who 
was taking his departure for home. See no. 543. o"'<?- 



December, i/So 487 

The Committee of correspondence wrote to you yesterday,^ since writ- 
ing which letter, we have accounts — not officially — that Arnold at the head 
of his motley crew together with considerable detachments from the line 
of the British Army are now embarked ready to sail. Their destination is 
not known. Arnold's having the command induces some to think that it 
is only a plundering party, but in my opinion, it is too formidable for such 
an errand. I rather think, they are bound to join the Southern army [and 
their ( ?)] whole views seem to be bent that way. 

There is a flying report this morning that the British Commissioners 
for establishing peace etc. are arrived in N. York. 

I wish you all health and happiness, success I shall at present say noth- 
ing about. And believe me to be my D'r Sir With the most sincere esteem 

Yr. most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

545. John Witherspoon to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, Dec. i6th, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have written twice to Air Houston " since I came here, but I believe 
I have been unlucky in the manner of conveyance. The first was written 
a week ago to go by a private hand, and I am uncertain whether it has 
gone yet. The other I am told went yesterday by Mr Chalmers of Trenton, 
referring to it for what else it contains I shall send you a copy of a reso- 
lution recommended by a convention that met at Hartford consisting of 
the N. England States and New York; ["] resolved that the Commander 
in Chief of the army of the United States be authorized and empowered 
to take such measures as he may deem proper and the public service may 
render necessary to induce the several states to a punctual compliance with 
the regulations which have been or may be made by Congress for supplies 
for the years 1780 and I78i.["] Though it is well known to you that 
few persons have a higher opinion of or confidence in Gen. Washington 
than myself or a greater desire of having vigorous executive powers put 
into the hands of persons at the head of affairs either in the military or 
civil department, yet that resolution is of such a nature that I should never 
give my voice for it unless you or my constituents should specifically direct 
it, perhaps even not then, and I have that opinion of Gen. Washington 
that I do not think he would accept or act in consequence of such powers. 

3 See the committee's letter here referred to, no. 524, and note 5, ante. It is 
scarcely possible to discover a distinction between Mathews' letters as chairman of 
the committee and his personal letters to Greene. The only obvious distinction is the 
presence of the word "chairman" after his signature; but it is by no means certain 
that all his letters written on behalf of the committee are so signed. 
[545]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 204. 

2 Houston was in attendance at least as late as Dec. 6 (see the Journuls). He 
probably took his departure upon the arrival of Witherspoon, Dec. 9. 



488 Continental Congress 

What could induce that Convention to recommend such a measure is a 
mystery to me, but I believe it will have few advocates." .... 

The distress of our finances is the most important and alarming cir- 
cumstance in our situation. A committee have it under consideration but 
whether their measures will be radical and effectual it is impossible to say. 
My opinion is that relief must come from the particular states, and they 
must do it by giving up attachment to paper money and by loans and con- 
tracts being in the credit of individuals to assist the public. This is the 
case in England for all their taxes would be too late, if monied men did 
not step forth and advance in the mean time what was necessary.'* .... 

546. Thomas AIcKean to John Adams. ^ 

Dear Sir, 

My letter of Novemr. 8th 1779 by John Lowell Esquire in answer to 
your favor of the 20th Septemr. preceding, did not, I fear, get to hand 
previous to your departure from Boston. However I hope you have 
received it.^ 

Congress have, a few days ago appointed Colo : Palfrey, late Paymaster 
General, to be Consul for the United States in France, with considerable 
powers over their commercial business in particular to forward all sup- 
plies for the army, which have been hitherto unaccountably delayed and 
neglected.^ Young Colo : Laurens is also just appointed Envoy Extraor- 

3 The proceedings of the convention are in Conn. State Recs., II. 562. See the 
Journals, Dec. 12, 1780, Feb. 16, 23, Mar. 6, 1781. Cj. no. 518, ante, and no. 564, post. 
See also William Bradford to Joseph Reed, Nov. 22, in Pa. Arch., first sen, VIII. 616. 
James Warren wrote to Samuel Adams, Dec. 4: 

" I suppose you have before this seen the doings and Resolutions of the Hartford 
Convention, if one of them does not astonish you I have forgot my political Catechism, 
surely History- will not be Credited when it shall record that a Convention of Delegates 
from the four New England States and from the next to them met at Hartford in the 
Year 1780, and in the height of our Contest for public Liberty and Security solemnly 
Resolved to recommend it to their several States to Vest the Military with Civil Powers 
of an Extraordinary kind and, where their own Interest is Concerned, no less than a 
Compulsive power over deficient States to oblige them by the point of the Bayonet to 
furnish money and supplies for their own pay and support, this must have been done 
without recollecting political Alaxims, without attending to Historical Admonitions and 
warnings, or the Principles on which our Opposition to Britain rests. General Wash- 
ington is a Good and a Great Man. I Love and Reverence him. But he is only a Man 
and therefore should not be vested with such powers, and besides we do not know that 
his successor will be either Great or Good, much less can we tell what Influence this 
precedent may have half a Century hence, sat Vcrbnm sapienti. I hope that the Resolu- 
tion will at least shew Congress that something is necessary to be done." Warren-Adams 
Letters, II. 151. See no. 513, note 6, ante. 

* See the Journals, Dec. 18, and no. 529, ante. 
[546]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 38 (draft). 

- McKean's letter to Adams Nov. 8, 1779, printed from the draft, is in vol. 
IV. of these Letters, p. 510. 

3 The question of appointing one or more consuls to reside abroad appears to 
have been broached from time to time in Congress ever since the French treaty. Sept. 
16, 1778, Richard Henry Lee felt confident that a consul for each European port of 
consequence would be appointed (vol. III., p. 414), and McKean, in the letter referred 
to above, says " some Consuls must be appointed ". The movement took its rise at this 
time from a report of the committee of way and means, Oct. 25, unless an undated 
report of another committee, found in the Journals under the same date, may have been 
first with the suggestion. Arthur Lee intimates that the idea originated with him. See 
no. 547, note 3, post. At all events, it was decided Oct. 25 to send a consul to France, 
and William Palfrey, paymaster-general, was nominated for the office. He was elected 



December, 1/80 489 

dinary to the Court of Versailles, with a view to soUicit a loan of about a 
million sterling, and additional naval aids, from our great and good Ally 
His Most Christian INIajesty. I wish them success, tho' I fear we have 
not fallen upon the most likely way of obtaining the loan; the appoint- 
ment of an Envoy on this occasion seems to imply a want of confidence 
in our Minister's attention, abilities or something else ; however I hope 
it may not be construed in that light, but rather considered as an evi- 
dence of our earnestness in the business.* 

We seem now to be carrying on a war of finance ; the States are there- 
fore jointly and severally entering into it with great zeal, and I do not 
fear but we shall get the better of our enemies even in this sort of contest. 
We have a great plenty of every thing but specie, and military stores. We 
can readily furnish them with provisions and pay, and are pretty well 
stored with arms and ammunition; cloathing is our principal want. Our 
friends abroad must assist us with some money and clothes 

Philadelphia, Decemr. i8th 1780 

[P. S.] 

547. Oliver Wolcott to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, 18 Deer. 1780. 
Sir, 

The most material matters which have been transacted in Congress 
since my arrival has been an appointment of an envoy to the Court of 
France, and a vote to send a minister to the Court of Russia. The ex- 
pediency of sending an envoy to the Court of France was much doubted 
of by a number of gentlemen, as nothing was proposed to be transacted 
of that particularity and importance but what might properly be done by 
our residentiary ministers at that Court ; that the measure might excite 
wrong and very improper apprehensions; that it might be understood by 
Dr. Franklin and the world in general as wearing an appearance unfavour- 
able to his character, which while he was in so important an office pru- 
dence as well as justice oblidged us to support ; that instead of an envoy 
our minister in France ought to have the aid of an active intelligent secre- 
tary, an aid which every other minister in less important service had been 
furnished with. But upon a division it w^as carryed, and Col. Laurens, 
a gentleman, it is said, of real abilities, is charged with this commission.^ 

Nov. 4, accepted Nov. 10, and his commission and instructions adopted Dec. 9. He 
sailed shortly afterward (see no. 552, post), but was lost at sea. 

* See no. 539, note 5, ante. 
[547]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 165. 

2 See no. 539, note 5, ante. In September, 1779, Congress had resolved to appoint 
a secretary for each of the foreign missions and had chosen (Sept. 28) John Laurens to 
be secretary to the minister at the court of Versailles (Franklin). Laurens_ declined 
however, and the post was not afterward filled, although there was an abortive effort 
to that end in December, 1779 (see vol. IV., pp. 454, 459, 460, 462, 463, 465, 466, 479, 
4QI, 538-541, 546). The question must have been stirred again in April, 1780, for Thomas 
Pinckney of South Carolina was put in nomination for the office (Apr. 19). See no. 



490 Continental Congress 

The vote to send a minister to Russia met but with little opposition upon 
the consideration of the influence of that Court upon the general affairs 
of Europe, and as paying a respect to a princess of the greatest dignity. 
Mr. Dana may probably be sent to that Court.^ Mr. J. Adams is charged 
with the commission which the late President Laurens was to execute.* 

Mr. Williams writes from France, that the reason why no more of the 
cloathing has not been sent has been owing to a quarrel between Capt. 
Landais and some of our other officers. The occasion of this delay will 
be enquired into. The rest of the supplies may probably soon be in 
America. 

Mr. Vergennes wrote to Mr. J. Adams then in Paris with regard to the 
measure adopted by Congress for cancelling their currency at a discount, 
and manifested some apprehensions he had that Congress might not be 
able to vindicate the justice of the measure. Mr. Adams, I think, returned 
a very convincing answer, in which in a particular manner he stated the 
true principles upon which Congress proceeded, and in my apprehension 
clearly shewed that justice dictated the measure. It is presumed that the 

381, ante. The matter next came forward in October, 1780 (see the Journals, Oct. 25, 
p. 977 n.), when there was apparently a question whether to give Franklin a secretary 
or send a consul to France. The first decision was to send a consul (see no. 546, note 3, 
ante), although the idea of choosing a secretary to Franklin was not discarded, and 
Nov. 28 Congress assigned the following Saturday (Dec. 2) for the election. Meanwhile 
John Henry of Maryland had been nominated for the office (Nov. 22), the name of 
Thomas Pinckney had been withdrawn, and John Mathews put in nomination instead 
(Nov. 29). In the meantime also the idea of sending a special envoy had been brewing, 
and that doubtless led to the motion of Sullivan and Bee Dec. i to postpone the election 
of a secretary to Dec. 6. There is no record in the Journals of any action in the matter 
on that day, but Dec. 8 Sullivan and Bee made their motion for the appointment of an 
envoy extraordinary to the court of Versailles, and that ended the matter of the secretary- 
ship. Cf. no. 572, post. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 15, 18, 19, and no. 546, note 4, ante. Arthur Lee wrote 
to Governor Trumbull Dec. 25 : 

" We have prevaild with Congress, after much difficulty and I am afraid too great 
delay, to send a special Minister to the court of Versailles for the attainment of the aids 
we want. Since my arrival here, I have recommended three things to Congress as 
essentially necessary to the welfare of our country : The appointment of a Minister to 
support our cause with the Empress of Russia, who is the head of the neutral powers; 
the establishment of a Secretary of State for foreign affairs, who may conduct them 
with intelligence and regularity ; and the recal of Dr. Franklin, whose conduct I con- 
sider as injurious to the honor and interests of these United States. 

" The first has been adopted and carried into execution, Mr. Dana being appointed 
Charge des Afifaires at the Court of Petersburg. The other two are now under the con- 
sideration of Congress." Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 170. 

On the same day Lee wrote to James Bowdoin of Massachusetts in similar terms 
(ibid., sixth ser., IX. 448). See also his letter to James Warren the same day (JVarren- 
Adams Letters, II. 158). The critics of Franklin appear to have been only so far suc- 
cessful as to eliminate from his instructions, Dec. 27, the expression, " having a high 
sense of your experience, wisdom, love of your country, and the esteem entertained for 
you by the Court at which you reside" {Journals, XVIII. 1198). 

4 The resolution to this effect does not appear in the Journals until Dec. 29, 
although the committee that offered the resolution brought in its report Dec. 6 {cj. the 
Journals, Oct. 28, Nov. 23, Dec. 23). Adams's commission and instructions are in the 
Journals, Dec. 29, together with a " Plan of a Treaty of Amity and Commerce " (con- 
cerning the latter, see this editor's note in Am. Hist. Rev., XVI. 579), and these were 
transmitted to him by President Huntington Jan. i, 1781, with the further remark, 
"Proper letters of credence on the subject of your mission will be forwarded by the 
next conveyance; but it is thought inexpedient to delay the present despatches on that 
account" (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 224). The letters of credence were adopted 
Jan. 3 and are in the Journals under that date. 



December, 1/80 491 

Minister will be satisfied with the propriety of the act. No unfavourable 
symtoms appear which indicate any want of cordiality in that Court. ^ 

The doings of the Convention who met at Hartford are in the hands of 
a Committee.® The object of finance will come under consideration. But 
the effect of these deliberations will probably be slow and perhaps unpro- 
ductive. W'e have no money in the Continental chest, and have but a little 
prospect of having it supplied. As the post is going out of town shall only 
add that since writing the above some alteration has been made by Con- 
gress in the style of their new ministers, and Mr. Dana is appointed for 
Russia. 

P. S. Before I close up my letter I cannot but express the chagrin that 
almost every man must feel in reflecting that the old bills, which are fit 
for little else but to make the tail of a paper kite with, at least their value 
may not be worth more than 500,000 lb. sterling, should so extremely 
imbarrass our affairs, and that it seems to be an evil which will probably 
continue for a long time to oppress us in the way in which we are proceed- 
ing. Congress will consider the object of finance as a very delicate affair, 
as it truly is; every one is interested in the subject; and the opinions of 
mankind in regard to it are very different. To do justice to the possessors 
of the bills, to obviate the mischief which they occasion, and to maintain 
the honour and reputation of the publick in regard to those objects, are 
difffculties of a peculiar nature. Congress have been so much criminated 
for what they have already done upon this head that it appears to me they 
will depend upon the efliicacy of the measures already adopted, the cer- 
tainty of which is pritty precarious, when it is considered how little of 
the old money is cancelled. How farr individual States may proceed in 
this business I cannot say ; at present the war is and must be supported by 
an exertion individually exerted 

548. James IMadisox to Joseph Joxes.^ 

Philadelphia, December 19, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the eighth instant came to hand yesterday." I was sorry to 
find the Assembly had not then taken up the recommendation of Con- 
gress on the subject of the western lands. Its being postponed so late will, 
I fear, prevent the result of their deliberations from being communicated 
to Maryland before the rising of their Legislature: in which case much 
time must be lost, unless their Delegates be authorized to accede to the 
Confederation, on a cession satisfactory to themselves — a liberality of 
proceeding hardly to be expected from that State, after the jealousy and 
reserve it has shown. I am no less sorry to find so little progress made 

^ See nos. 534, 537, ante, and nos. 557, 572, post. 
^ See no. 545, note 3, ante. 
[548]! Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 115; Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 76. 
- This letter is in Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 62. 



492 C ontinental Congress 

in the plan for levying soldiers. The regular force for the southern de- 
partment must be principally, it seems, contributed by Virginia, the North 
Carolina Assembly having broken up without making any effectual pro- 
vision of that sort. One would have supposed that the fatiguing service 
exacted of the militia in that State, would have greatly facilitated such a 
measure, and yet that is assigned as the obstacle to its practicability. 

I wish anxiously to hear from you on the subject stated in my letter by 
Grayson, and in my subsequent one by the post. Circumstances which I 
do not choose unnecessarily to hazard by the post, have made it expedient 
to lay the matter before the Assembly, that their former instructions may 
not be invalidated by a supposed effect of a change of situation, or may 
be rescinded if real. This went by W. Jones, Esquire, on his return to 
North Carolina, who, I suppose, will not be at Richmond till nearly Christ- 
mas. I wish it could have reached the Assembly before your leaving it.^ 

549. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.^ 

Philada. Deer. 19, 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I but lately reed, your favour of the 13th ulto. Am Sorry you should 
think any Neglect towards you hath ever appeared in my Conduct. Con- 
gress is impressed with the necessity of Observing Oeconomy in the 
public expenses and having been formerly too profuse in the promotion 
of officers determined to stop their hand, they say N. Jersey hath one 
Major Genl. and by the Reduction proposed we shall have but two 
Regim'ts what prospect have I then of obtaining another Genl. officer, 
before the reduction was agreed to I moved it, but found the subject dis- 
agreeable ; since the rect. of your Letter I have Consulted such as I thought 
most in your favour and met with but little encouragement. We have 
had no recommendations for this measure either from the Genl., the Leg- 
islature, or even the brigade. You mention the promotion of Genl. Gist ^ 
and Morgan, but their appointments were in consequence of requests from 
Maryland and Virginia, this cannot be offered in your favour. I see the 
Embarrassment the Subject is under; If I move an Appointment at pres- 
ent I shall fail in obtaining it ; And if you leave the Service in Col. Ogden's 
favour (which is a matter being a family affair I can say nothing about) 
you will afterwards be necessarily excluded. Genl. Sullivan hath Wrote 
to the Genl. desiring his Opinion in some general matters respecting pro- 
motions of general officers^ and desired me to postpone any proposals 
respecting you, till he reed, an answer, which not having reed. I am left 

3 See nos. 521, 522. 533, 543, ante. The question was laid before the assembly 
in the joint letter of Madison and Bland Dec. 13. New instructions were transmitted to 
the delegates by Governor Jeflferson Jan. 18, and new instructions to Jay were adopted 
by Congress Feb. 15. See nos. 629, 661, post. 

[549]^ From the collection of the late James H. Manning, of Albany. 

2 "Greene" was first written, then altered to "Gist". 

3 See Sullivan's letter, Nov. 30. no. 528, ante, and Washington's reply, Dec. 17 
{Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 332., ed. Ford, IX. 63) ; also Washington to the President 
of Congress Dec. 20 {ihtd., p. 68). Cj. no. 571, post. 



December, I/80 493 

at uncertainties and tho' Time draws very near when some one of our 
three Colo's must leave the service, Mr. Houston some time ago went to 
Trenton and proposed to consult our Legislature and Obtain a request 
from them for a Brigade. I formerly wrote to them to the same purpose, 
but hear nothing from them or Mr. Houston on the subject. Thus stands 
the matter. I wish the arrangem't of our Brigade could be postponed a 
short season only from a possibility that some favourable Occurrence 
might offer in your favour.* 

I am Dear Sir Your Obedt. Humble Servt. 

Abra. Clark 

550. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Deer. 19, 1780. 

I was unable on the last postday to thank you for yr. favor of Novr. 
23d. then, thro' want of time, now, I am scarcely able thro' much Indis- 
position of Body to notice largely all the Points to which you expect my 
attention. As to Bermuda you seem to have conversed more with mer- 
chants who own Privateers than with Politicians who know the great 
Portion of our friends in Bermuda above our Enemies a Portion which 
ought not to be driven into the mode of fitting out Cruisers who would be 
as troublesome to us as they were to the f rench formerly. As to the Duck 
in the Agents hands orders have been given. As to the Resolve of Novr. 
21 22 respecting our Delegation, Circumstances at this moment make 
Remarks very requisite. 

I have been ill 4 days tho' I have had a pen in my hand all the Time in 
my Chamber. Genl. Ward is quite unwell, he has attended Congress and 
the Bd. of War while he ought to have been in his Bed Room. Mr, Adams 
is not out, I fear he is also unwell. It was to make up a Delegation that 
I have risqued myself this very vile day. Questions on European impor- 
tant Concerns are agitating and single Voices serve several States, as al- 
ways heretofore. I do not mention this because I am averse to the Rule 
of our State that 2 should be the least to give her Vote here especially 
when she directed 5 or 4 to attend " upon the Duties of the Delegation ". 
Nay if she does not enjoin that upon more than 3. But when she makes 
3 necessary " to give the Voice of the State " she puts a great hardship 
upon 3 when only 3 are attending the Duties of their Delegation and runs 
a treble Risque beyond several States of losing her Vote here daily. Mass. 
has been at extraordinary Expense beyond many states in furnishing heads 
and hands to perform Congress Drudgery, and her members have more 
of the W^ork of standing Boards and Committes than most others, because 
their Residence has been more usually permanent : This has exposed her 

•* Dayton's promotion had been laboring since the summer of 1776 (see Clark 
to Dayton Mar. 7, 1777, in vol. II., p. 291) and was to labor yet two years longer. 
He was made brigadier-general Jan. 7, 1783. See the Journals, Aug. 14, 1780, Mar. 8, 
1781, May 8, June 3 (p. 315 n.), 5, Nov. 25 (p. 753 n-)- Dec. 12, 1781, and no. 571, post; 
also Gark to Dayton July 29, 1782, and Boudinot to Dayton Dec. 25, 1782, and Jan. 7, 
1783, in succeeding volumes. 

[55o]i£jjex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 222. 



494 Continental Congress 

to lose a Vote when she has made numbers necessary to give it. One of 
her Delegates may often render tenfold Service on the Board or Com'tee 
of which he is a member by serving an entire day on it than by being in 
Congress merely as a make-vote. You well know these things by your 
past Sufferings, and Mr. Gerry has felt them at the Peril of his Life. 
Whatever may have been the Intention of a remarkable Variety in the 
Course of 4 years respecting the Voice of Mass ; here, I do believe that 
in the present Case the Words do not speak the Intentions of the Movers 
of the Resolve. I am so persuaded of that as to determine not to present 
the latter Vote to Congress with the proceedings of Oct. 4, more especially 
if one of us here shall be unwell ; till I hear more from you.^ I am almost 
determined not to write any more to you for either my Letters must be 
quite insignificant or I must tell Tales to the Enemy. 10 or 11 of those 
I wrote Novr. 20 and 21 are gone into N. Yk. Among them those to 
Mr. Gerry ^ (inclosing one I think from Mr. J. Adams), Doctr. Holten 
Doctor Whitwell Mrs. Adams (inclosing one certainly from her Hus- 
band) Govr. Hancock Mr. S. Gridley with my Rhode Island and Family 
Letters. I am told two mails from hence are laying at Fish-kill. There 
are some immense Genii in the Post office Department but I am told they 
say the Faults of Congress marr their Plans. 

Yr. Friend and h. servt. 

James Lovell. 

551. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada. December 20, 1780. 
Sir, 

Convinced of your Zeal, unremitted attention and Endeavours to pro- 
mote the mutual Interest of France and these United States, it is with 
Pleasure that I execute the Orders of Congress, in communicating to you 
that Congress find themselves under the Necessity of requesting the Aid 
of his most Christian Majesty to obtain a Loan of twenty five Millions 
of Livres ; in Order to prosecute the next Campaign with Vigour - 

I have also the Honor to inform you Sir, that Congress have been 
pleased to appoint the Honorable Francis Dana Esquire Minister to the 
Court of Petersburgh, with full Powers to accede to the Plan of Neu- 
trality proposed by her Imperial Majesty the Empress of all the Russias, 
for the Freedom and Protection of Commerce relating to neutral Powers, 
as also to form a Treaty of Alliance and Friendship with her Imperial 
Majesty, conformable to the Spirit and Meaning of the Treaties sub- 
sisting between France and these LTnited States ^ 

2 The Massachusetts resolves of Oct. 4 are in the Journals, Jan. 2, 1781. See 
nos. 573, 604, 608, post. 

3 No. 518, ante. Cf. no. 480, note 7, ante. 

[551]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 189. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 17, 22, 28. 

3 The resolution to send a minister to Russia was adopted Dec. 15, the committee 
appointed to draw up his instructions reported Dec. 18, Dana was chosen Dec. 19, and 
his commission, instructions, and letter of credence were adopted the same day. 



December, lySo 495 

I am perswaded that your Wisdom, and the Desires you have mani- 
fested to promote the Happiness and Prosperity of these States will in- 
duce you to lend any Assistance in your Power to forward their Designs, 
consistent with the Honor and Interest of his most Christian Majesty. 

552. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia, December 21, 1780. 
Sir: 

The bearer, William Palfrey, our late paymaster general, has been ap- 
pointed consul in France, with powers adequate to a general agency in 
our commercial concerns there. But while I take up my pen to introduce 
him to your patronage, I ought to use it rather, perhaps, by way of apolo- 
gizing for myself, in the line of a member of the committee of foreign 
affairs, from whom you will find no letter. There was a prospect of much 
business being committed to you by this opportunity, but it was altogether 
depending upon the President and secretary to transmit it, which it seems 
they were prevented from doing by an arrangment being but partly ac- 
complished which Congress has thought fit to connect with those affairs. 
The proceeding is of a nature not to admit of my enlarging upon it, be- 
cause neither my head nor heart suggests anything of eulogium, and my 
conscience forbids me to pursue the usual style of minorities." 

The journals which I send you will show that we have had no letter 
from you since that of May last, except two short ones lately respecting 
the private concerns of two officers. Baron d'Arendt, and another, whose 
name is not now in my memory. Colonel Palfrey will be able to give you 
information additional to the gazettes.^ 

I am, sir, your most humble servant, 

James Lovell, 

For the Committee of Foreign Affairs. 

553. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, 21st Dec, 1780. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Congress seem to be very busy : but as I have not yet taken my 
seat in it, I am acquainted with but few particulars, and if I was ac- 
quainted with any thing interesting, I should be afraid to write it by the 
post, as there is reason to apprehend that, before this reaches you, the 
enemy may be in possession of some of the towns in Virginia through 
which the post passes, as we have certain advices that 4,000 troops, under 
the command of General Kniphausen. have been some time past embarked, 
though we have not yet any advice of their having sailed, and their desti- 
nation is kept a profound secret in Xew York. Congress have sent a 

[552]! Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 204. 

- Lovell appears to have been disgruntled over the proposed revolution in the 
department of foreign afifairs. See no. 514, ante, and no. 621, post. 

3 Concerning Palfrey's appointment see no. 546, note 3, ante. 
[553P McRee, Life of James Iredell, I. 479. 

36 



496 Continental Congress 

Colonel Palfray, formerly paymaster of the army, to France, in the char- 
acter of consul from the United States. Colonel Laurens, son of the late 
President, is appointed a minister for a particular purpose to the court of 
France. This last appointment is much disapproved of by some of the 
members, apprehensive of its disgusting Dr. Franklin, and by that means 
impeding rather than promoting our interest at that court. Mr. Dana, 
secretary to Mr. Adams, is appointed minister to the Empress of Russia, 
it is uncertain how he may be received, but the general opinion is, that 
the old lady will not be displeased with the compliment.^ 

2^d. I have just heard of a brother of Mr. Granbury's, who sets out 
in the morning for Carolina; I will therefore close this letter, and endeavor 
to send it by him ; and can now venture to mention the distresses of Con- 
gress in regard to money matters. Nothing can be more alarming. The 
treasury quite empty, and no means of filling it, to answer the pressing 
demands which are daily made upon it. What adds to their distress : the 
supplies for the army are not yet laid in, and they have been disappointed 
in getting over a quantity of clothing, promised for the use of the army, 
in France. Expenses here exceed all conception : from the great number 
of prizes brought in, and large importations from Europe to this place 
the town is filled with all kinds of goods, and furnishes supplies to all the 
Southern States, and the State of New York ; this draws all the circulat- 
ing cash in these States to this town; this occasions such a profusion of 
money here, that every thing is enormously dear 

554. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular, Philadelphia December 22, 1780. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act 
of Congress of this Day, together with the Extract of a Letter from the 
Commander in Chief of the 15th Instant to which the Act refers 

The Nature and Importance of the Subject is so fully stated in the In- 
closures, and the Necessity of a Compliance with the Requisition so ob- 
vious, it would be superfluous to attempt any aditional Motives to call 
forth the effectual Exertions of the respective States to compleat their 
Quotas of the federal Army with the necessary Supplies. 

555. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman, ^ 

Philadelphia, 22 Deer. 1780. 
Sir, 

.... The public papers will give you a general view of the complex- 
ion of the Times. The pride, chagrin, and lust of the revenge of G. Britain 
will undoubtedly urge G. Britain to continue the war to obtain an end 
which is now, I apprehend, indubidably certain that every nation in Europe 

2 See no. 539, note 5, ante. 

[554]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 20; Library 
of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 190. 

[555]! The Pierpont Morgan Library, Declaration of Independence; Conn. Hist. Soc., 
MSS. of Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. III. (copy). 



December, lySo 497 

is opposed to. The B. Administration consider themselves as playing a 
desperate game and therefore will probably risque every event. I think 
that we have not the least reason to apprehend that that nation will be 
able to contravene the wishes of all mankind. If she will madly persist, 
which I believe she will, the war will, I apprehend, be carried on by her 
opponents, with more energy than it has hitherto been. Necessity will 
oblidge to this. We gain frequent advantages at the Southward. My best 
compliments to Mr. Ellsworth and Mrs. Ellsworth. I shall write to him 
by next post. 

556. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, December 24, 1780. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive, herewith enclosed, a resolve of Congress 
of the 1 2th Instant, respecting the Garrison at Wyoming, which was 
adopted in Consequence of Difficulties that arose in supplying the present 
Garrison with Provisions. 

I presume that the Commander in Chief will judge that Post necessary 
while the War continues, but perhaps your Excellency may think proper 
to advise him of the Necessity and Importance of the Post, not only to 
protect the Inhabitants in the Vicinity, but as a Barrier to the Frontier in 
general.^ 

[Endorsed:] "24th Decemr. 1780. Prest. Huntington de Wyoming 
reed. 7th Janry. 1781, per Brown." 

557. Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Decemb'r 25th 1780. 
D'r Sir, 

The resolution of the i8th of march last was Improved by our Enemies 
in britain against us — was Complained of as unjust by Some Merchants 
in france who were interested in Speculation in america till at last the 
Minister of that Court wrote to Mr. John Adams upon the Subject, which 
drew from him a long letter Stating the principles upon which Congress 
adopted it and evincing in a Clear and pointed manner the Justice of the 
Measure with respect to both Citizens and foreigners, a Copy of the letter 
I have sent to Govr. Trumbull - 

The affair of Vermont is postponed Generally 

Mr. Dana is appointed to go to the Court of Russia. Col. Jno. Laurens 
is appointed to go to France to obtain the aid of money and other Sup- 
plies wanted for our army. 

[556]^ Conn. State Lib. (M.H.S.), XIII. 244; Librarj^ of Congress, Force Trans., 
Tnimbidl, XIII. 244. 

2 See the Jourtials, Nov. 28, Dec. 12 ; also Washington to Col. Zebulon Butler 
(Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 345). 
[557]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
2 See nos. 534, 537, 547, ante, and no. 572, post. 



498 Continental Congress 

Col. Palfry is gone to France in the Character of Consul and Com- 
mercial agent. Questions of Finance are still on the board — it behoves 
the States to exert themselves mightily and I believe they will not loose 
their reward. 

D'r 27th P. S 

558. Thomas McKean to John Dickinson.^ 

Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the i ith instant did not come to hand 'till the 23d ; it has 
been some how strangely delayed 

Laws for the amending the Acts making the continental money etc. 
a legal tender, have passed in most of the States to the Eastward, but they 
have fixed a ratio or scale in certain cases at forty for one. and enabled 
the courts in all others to determine according to their discretion, so that 
no great instruction can be obtained from any of them : however I shall 
endeavor to get some of their laws on this subject, as well as others, which 
I think may be of use to you, and if possible transmit them by this oppor- 
tunity 

And now my dear Sir, permit me to say a few words respecting myself. 
I find that my health and fortune are impaired by my unremitted atten- 
tion to public affairs ; what I undertake to perform, I do with all my 
might ; and having very little relief in attending Congress, I find that this, 
the discharging the duties of Chief Justice, a Trustee of the University, 
etc. etc. are more than I can perform to my own satisfaction. Besides, 
the Rank I am obliged to maintain is greater than comports with my 
finances. I must therefore beg of you to appoint some Gentlemen as 
Delegates, who will attend in Congress at all such times as I am obliged 
to be on the Circuit or in Courts, and who will also relieve me occasionally 
at other times, and permit that relaxation which is absolutely necessary 
for the mind as well as the Body; otherwise, that the General Assembly 
would be pleased to excuse me the Honor in future, which is my ardent 
wish. 

I have never in any year received as a Delegate, as much money as would 
defray my personal expenses incurred in the service, and have not been 
offered a farthing since the first day of January 1779, now two years, 
wanting a few days. If an adequate allowance is made to your Delegates, 
you have Gentlemen enough qualified for the Station, who I am certain 
will cheerfully undertake it 

You will herewith receive printed copies of Acts passed here respecting 
the Embargo (which ought to have permitted Bread as well as flour to 
be exported) the Pennsylvania troops. Duties on Imports etc., etc., most of 
which I should think it the interest of our State to adopt. 

Philadelphia, Decem'r 25th, 1780. 

[558]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 39 (draft). 



December, I'jSo 499 

559. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Decm'r 25th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I expected to have the pleasure by to Morrows Post of transmitting to 
You the Result of Congress respecting the dispute between the Town of 
Portsmouth and M'r De latour but Congress has been so immersed in the 
Business of Finance that I was not able to obtain a Determination but 
hope you will receive it by next \\'eeks Mail." .... 

560. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 25th Decemr. 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I have the Honor to Inclose you a number of Queries made to me by 
the Secretary of the French Embassy with Copies of my answers. This 
Gentleman is one of those usefull Geniuses who is Constantly in Search 
of knowledge, he is about to write the History of America or rather to 
give a Geographical Description of it. As much advantage will arise from 
our Commerce and Constitutions being well known : As Mr. Adams has 
wrote from Holland to Congress pressing upon them the necessity of Tak- 
ing measures for this purpose I wish you to Lay these papers before the 
assembly and request a Committee to furnish Such answers as they may 
find I have omitted and to Correct Such mistakes as I may have made and 
I wish a Sample of our Glass may be forwarded ^ 

I have so much writing to do as The Commander in Chief the principal 
officers of the Army and others Keep up a Constant Correspondence with 
me and in addition to this I have so many Reports to frame, Copy and 
prepare for Congress That I am Compelled to keep Mr. Smith almost 
wholly Employed with the Pen. I must now Employ him to Copy all the 
papers respecting Vermont and make a Brief. This will be a voluminous 
work and take much time — He thinks that he merits Some Consideration 

[559]^ i^^- H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers. IX. 31. 

- See no. 539, ante, nos. 624, 635, post, and the Journals, Feb. 5, 1781. The 
remainder of the letter is a discussion of the terms droit d'aiihaine and droit de detrac- 
tion used in the treatv of amitv and commerce with France (in the Journals, under Mav 4, 
1778). 

[560] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, SulHvan Papers; N. H. Hist. Soc, Sullivan Papers (copy). 

- The secretary of the French embassy was Frangois de Marbois, later known 
as Barbe-Marbois. For a sketch of him see Am. Hist. Rev.. XXIX. 725. The most 
noteworthy outcome of these queries, which were propounded to leading men in each 
of the states, was Jefferson's fam.ous Notes on Virginia. See Paul Leicester Ford's 
introduction to the reprint of the Notes, in Jefferson's Writings, vol. III., p. 68 et seq. 

The letter of John Adams to which reference is made is probably that of Sept. 25 in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 67. Adams's suggestion bore fruit speedily, for on Dec. 
29, immediately after the adoption of his commission and instructions as commissioner 
to the Netherlands, a resolve, introduced by James Lovell, was adopted that a com- 
mittee be appointed to collect and publish 200 copies of the Declaration of Independence, 
the Articles of Confederation, and the constitutions of the several states. The collec- 
tion was printed by Francis Bailey (Philadelphia) in 1781. See the Bibliographical 
Notes in the Journals for 1781 (vol. XXL), pp. 1200-1203; also Evans, Am. Bibliog., 
YI. 149. 



500 Continental Congress 

for these Services and asks no more than his Expences which are Indeed 
but Small. I wish the assembly to pass a resolve to allow them and to 
Let me know whether they will or will not That I may Direct him 
Accordingly — I know that a Delegate Less acquainted with publick Busi- 
ness would not be under the Same necessity but as I apprehend it was the 
Design of the assembly that I should Exert Every Talent Nature has fur- 
nished me with to Serve the Common Cause and as I now assure them 
that it is not possible for me to do it without an assistant to Copy my Let- 
ters reports etc., etc., I cannot persuade myself that the Honble. assembly 
of New Hampshire will refuse to allow him his Bare Expences for so 
Essential a Service. 

561. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

jj <-. Philadelphia, December 26th, 1780. 

Since my arrival here Congress have been mostly Employed about the 
foreign affairs and nothing material has happened that relates to our 
State. 

The Letters from Europe which we have Lately Reed, give us little hope 
of peace, altho' all the powers of that Country are taking measures which 
are Evidently against the Interest of Great Britain. 

The armed neutrality which has been so much talked of, is come into 
by all the neutral powers, and which will undoubtedly make very much in 
our favour." .... 

562. Thomas Burke to John Laurens.^ 

1 Qu: What Methods have been taken for raising men and what pros- 
pect of Success ? ^ 

Ansr. A Law is in force for raising men on a bounty of One prime 
Slave and a Tract of (I believe) 200 acres of Land to every Soldier for 
the War who shall compleat the term of Service, and to the family or 
representative of Such as may die in Service, besides this a bounty of 
money was appointed, but the depreciation has made it Inconsiderable. 

This Act has had little or no Success, nor do I expect any from that or 
any other Expedient for raising regular Troops so long as the Circum- 
stances of the war require so many of our Militia in the field, very few 
can at any time be found to inlist voluntarily, because landed property is 
very easily acquired, the Climate is mild, and the Soil either fruitful for 
agriculture, fit for raising Stock, or for producing Naval Stores, the 
War has exhausted all or most of the men who might be calculated upon 
for voluntary inlistments 

2 Qu: What methods for procuring Supplies ? 

Ansr. A specific Tax is laid, which, on the lowest computation, will 
yield 500,000 bushels of Indian Corn, or other provisions Equivalent. 

[561]'^ Clinton Papers, VI. 524. 

- Floyd mentions receipt of news of the defeat of Tarleton. 
[562]! Library of Congress, U. S. R. 

2 See the note to Laurens appended to this document. 



December, lySo 501 

besides this the Commissioners are authorised and required, if necessary, 
to take, for public use, one half of all the provisions which can be found 
in the State above what may be necessary for the Support of the Inhabi- 
tants. Powers are given for calling forth Teams etc. for transportation 
but this is a very difficult business, and destructive to the agriculture of 
the State. So many of our Wagons and Horses have been destroyed, dis- 
abled, or lost in the late afifair near Camden, and, before that, in the dis- 
tant Service to which the Militia were called, that the Country retains but 
a very scanty Supply for its agriculture for which they are Essentially 
requisite. Teams, however, and carriages have been supplied for the 
movements both of Militia and regulars, but in Consequence thereof the 
agriculture has been very much Neglected. 

Commissioners are appointed with ample powers for employing the re- 
sources of the State in the purchase of some amunition cloathing and other 
foreign Supplies. I cannot say I expect much from their Efforts, but rather 
wish these Supplies might be sent from abroad. A money Tax of 7^ per 
cent on the gross value of property valued at 7 for i on the specie price. 

^d Qii. What towards relinquishing Vacant Lands for the use of the 
United States? 

Ansr. This has never yet been submitted to the Legisla[ture] nor in- 
deed do I know upon what principle it is requ[ested] I believe it will be 
difficult to Convince the State that a [large] part of her property should 
be made Common Stock w[hile] others retain all their more Valuable 
property entire and unaffected by such a Contribution. This is Conjecture, 
the Question cannot be pointedly answered. 

Sir, 

In the foregoing you will find all that at present Occurs to me on the 
Questions propounded to me by Mr. Mathews on your behalf. I wish my 
answers could be more agreeable, but the truth must be told to you, and 
your prudence will best point out the use you may be able to make of it. 
If I can give you any farther Satisfaction I will do it with great pleasure.^ 

I am S'r with Regard and Esteem 

Your very obd. S't 

Thos. Burke 
Phila. 26th de'r 1780. 

3 Concerning the mission of John Laurens, see no. 539, note 5, ante. John Mathews, 
who propounded these questions to Burke respecting conditions in North Carolina and 
the measures pursued in that state in matters of special interest for Laurens's mission, 
was chairman of a committee (Mathews, Madison, Duane) appointed Dec. 23 to confer 
with Laurens on the subject of his mission. For the response to his questions relative 
to Connecticut see no. 513, post. Burke was chairman of a committee appointed Dec. 26 
to prepare additional instructions to Franklinon the subject of this mission and him- 
self drew those instructions (see the Journals, Dec. 27). Still another committee was 
appointed the same day to confer with the minister of France on the subject. Laurens 
was also instructed by Congress to confer with the commander-in-chief, the outcome of 
which was a series of observations which Washington drew up for his information and 
guidance. These (Jan. 15) are found in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 102, 
(ed. Sparks), VIL 368. See also Washington to Franklin Jan. 15 {ihid., p_. 378), and 
an extract from a letter of Vergennes there quoted. With some modifications Wash- 
ington's observations were embodied by Laurens in his memorial to Vergennes (Whar- 



502 Continental Congress 

563. Oliver Wolcott to John Laurens/ 

The Hon. Mr, Mathews has desired me to inform Col. Laurens ' — 

Wheither Connecticut will have for the next Campaign, their Line in 
the Army compleat, according to the Requisiton of Congress ? 

Wheither that State will furnish the Provisions for the Army, required ? 

Wheither that State has or will Cede the Unlocated Territory which 
they Claim, to the United States ? 

My Answer to the first Question is, That the State has offered a large 
Bounty to every Recruit who shall inlist in the State Line for three years 
or during the War. Besides this, by an Act of Goverment, each Town in 
the State is divided according to it's Taxables into as many Classes as 
they are deficient in their Quotas, which Towns and Classes are obliged 
under a severe Penalty to furnish their respective Recruits by the first of 
February. 

I am of Opinion that Connecticut will have their Line in the Army the 
next Campaign, as full as it has usually been. 

My Answer respecting Provisions is, That the State has by Law Obliged 
their Towns to furnish for the Army for the next Campaign, Salted Beeff, 
Salted Pork and Flour to the amount of about Six Thousand Barrells. 
These Provisions will be cheifly collected in Flesh — The Law ordaining 
this Supply passed but a little Time before I left the State. I am credibly 
informed that this Measure is carrying into the most cheerful and Vigor- 
ous execution. 

The large Demands for Provisions for the French Fleet and Army at 
Newport, and the alluring Pay which they make induce great Quantity, 
of live Beeff, to be sent there. This Circumstance I apprehend will render 
it more Dificult for the State to furnish this Article to the amount re- 
quired than it would otherwise be. But Notwithstanding I am of Opinion 
the Zeal and Vigor of the State will Surmount this Dificulty — and I am 
perswaded that shall the other States exert the same Vigor to furnish 
Men and Provisions for the next Campaign that Connecticut will, That 
even if no Success full efforts shall be made the next Campaign by our 
Ally; either by Cooperating with us to Suppress the Foe in America, 

ton, Rev. Dip!. Corn, IV. 318). See also Laurens to the President of Congress Jan. 3, 
Feb. 4. 7, ibid., pp. 225, 249, 252. and no. 611, post. 

In a letter to John Adams, Dec. 20, Burke commented upon the situation in the South 
after Gates's defeat and remarked: "Nothing can be a stronger proof of that deter- 
mined, unconquerable Spirit which animates all America than what appeared in the 

State of North Carolina immediately on the defeat of Gen. Gates near Camden 

But under all those circumstances the People, then laboring under all the distresses 
inseparable from an unprovided Soldiery, flew to arms with the greatest alacrity, resolv- 
ing that the Enemy should not find their Country an easy prey, if even they should not 
be able finally to withstand them. They had the success that such spirit in a people 

will always command The war may impoverish and distress us, we may be manj'' 

times unsuccessful, our Armies may be dispersed, our finances deranged, but a people 
pervaded by such a spirit as animates all America never can be conquered. I refer you 
to some other correspondents for details. The Spirit of the people appears to me, and 
I am persuaded to you also, of far more interesting consequence." N. C. State Recs., 
XV. 375. 

[563]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 643. 
~ See no. 562, ante. 



December, 1780 503 

or by deverting more effectually the War from this Country, But that 
the Main Weight of it must still be sustained by Us, That even in this 
Case upon similar exertions it will not be in the Power of the enemy to 
gain any material Advantages over the Northern and middle states more 
than they casually did before the Alliance. 

As to the third Question, Connecticut has ceded to the united States all 
their unlocated Territory West of what they call their Susquehannah Pur- 
chase, which if I rightly remember extends Two Degrees West of the 
Delaware. This Cession is made upon condition that the other states 
claiming unlocated Territory shall Cede proportionably according to their 
Claims. Connecticut are very sincere in Wishing that the unlocated Terri- 
tory, (except such Lands as are yet within their Susquehannah Purchase 
unlocated which they think it reasonable for them [to] retain) might 
become a common Interest. The State are disposed to have these Cessions 
made not from any apprehension that they cannot as well and even better 
support their Claims than any other State, when they consider that their 
Purchase can be well ascertained — and that the same Act of the Crown 
which constituted the once Colony of Connecticut with the Powers of 
Goverment Vested the Colony with the Fee of the Land which the State 
now Claims. But what influences the Conduct of the State in this par- 
ticular is a Desire to Adopt a IMeasure which might cement our L'nion, 
and Constitute an Estate for the Publick Seperior to what any other Na- 
tion possesses — and which if rightly managed, might be used for the 
Introduction of Millions of industrious Forreigners to become Purchas- 
ers and Sellers. The Avails of which Purchases made by Forraign Prop- 
erty would within a few years be more than sufficient to pay the whole 
Debt incurred by the War. 

As Col. Laurens will go to Boston or Newport in either Case it will be 
Very convenient for him to see Govr. Trumbull, from whom he can ob- 
tain more particular and perfect Information than it is possible for me to 
give him. 

Oliver Wolcott 
Philadelphia 27 Deer. 1780. 

564. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Please your Excellency, Philadelphia, Decemb'r 27th, 1780. 

.... Mr. H. Laurence is committed to the Tower on a charge of 
high treason. Mr. Adams is impowered to negociate the business in Hol- 
land which Mr. Laurence was to have done. Mr. Francis Dana is ap- 
pointed our Minister at the Court of Petersburgh to accede to the neu- 
trality and to negociate other business which may be beneficial to these 
States. Col. John Laurence is appointed to go to France to enforce the 
reasons for granting us the aid solicited from thence and to send over 
the supplies so much wanted for our army.- .... 

[564P Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 171. 
- See nos. 546, 547, ante. 



604 Continental Congress 

The system of government over these States as at present exercised is 
extremely defective. The sovereign power of war and peace, having no 
permanent funds in its possession, nor the means of estabHshing any, 
must feel itself weak and prevent or defeat almost every measure how'ever 
necessary and render the execution languid, tardy and oft times wholly 
abortive. The wealth of the States constitutes the great fund on which 
we must depend for credit abroad and for resources at home ; and while 
these are drawn forth at the volition of each State, by recommendatory 
requisitions only, it is in the power of any State to defeat the most impor- 
tant measure. The union of these thirteen States for their mutual interest 
and safety constitutes a republic of States or political persons, of which 
great republic each State constitutes one member or subject, over which 
Congress is appointed to preside, and it is as necessary that Congress 
should exercise the powers of coercion over the particular States for the 
general purposes of the confederacy, as it is that the confederacy should 
continue in its present form, or that each State should exercise such power 
over its particular citizens for the weal of the State ; and this power is so 
far from infringing upon the rights or sovereignty of the particular 
States that it is as necessary for the preservation of them as the union 
itself.^ 

The result of the Convention at Hartford has been laid before Con- 
gress and is committed. I flatter myself it will serve to facilitate some 
usefull and necessary regulations. The business of finance in the present 
scituation is distressing and extremely embarassed. Had all the States 
punctually complied with the resolution of the i8th of March, with respect 
to sinking the old bills and issuing the new, and had the new issued in the 
time, quantity and credit proposed, four tenths only is to go into the Con- 
tinental chest which would be a very inadequate supplie. But few of the 
States have issued any of the money, some have not taken resolutions even 
to comply,* and the new bills issue with an evident depreciation; besides 
I dont see how it will be practicable to sink the old bills by taxes on ac- 
count of the unequal manner in which they are distributed in the States. 
Some have a great surplus, while others lack of their quota. To stop the 
circulation by a resolve of Congress is a stroke of power which has been 
already but too often repeated for the credit of public bodies. It is easy 
to see how such an exertion of power must disagreably effect the credit of 
the new money, for individuals will distrust the faith of that body which 
in any instance makes use of its power to alter or rescind its engagements 
to their prejudice. By the system ten million of dollars only was to be put 
into circulation, one sixth to be sunk annually ; beside this the States must 
be taxed annually to raise the current supplies, the year is very far elapsed, 
the measure but partially executed in any and not even attempted in some. 
Query, will it be possible for the States now to carry this system into exe- 
cution and at the same time raise the necessary supplies for the next year ? 
The pay of the army w'hich is in arrear eight months will swallow up 
the A. 



' Cf. nos. 513, note 6, 518, 545, ante. 
* Cf. nos. 264, 272, 288, 314, 331, 396, 



397, ante. 



December, 1/80 505 

The resources of a country are to be estimated by the wealth of its citi- 
zens and the means estabhshed for drawing that weaUh into pubhc use. 
The ordinary method of doing this is by taxation ; and as this must be laid 
on by general rules in equal proportion scarce any State is able by this 
means to raise more than one half of what its inhabitants are able to pay, 
because while one part is oppressed the other scarcely feels the burden. 
Recourse ought therefore to be had to other means to releive the necessi- 
ties of the public by more equal exactions; and this, I think, may be done 
by duties and imposts in the Continental way, if judiciously laid and care- 
fully collected; for if they are laid by the particular States for their par- 
ticular benefit, it is easy to see that the collection will be vastly unequal. 
For one State may import for many others who consume the articles and 
of consequence pay the duties which the State that imports takes the benefit 
of, whereas if laid in a Continental way and for Continental use no State 
will pay for more than it consumes and none share in the profits beyond 
its just quota. Again if these duties are laid indiscriminately on all the 
necessaries of life it must distress the poorer sort which ought to be re- 
leived : but if they are laid upon luxuries and superfluities which are con- 
sumed only by the rich and opulent an amazing sum might be raised with- 
out distressing any body. But why do I trouble your Excellency with rea- 
soning upon a measure which is evidently out [of] our power to put in to 
practice.^ .... 

I have inclosed to your Excellency the Journals of Congress for Septr. 
and Octr.. being all that are printed, and the vol. of 1778, which Mr. Sher- 
man desired me to send by Brown, and several of the latest papers. I must 
ask your Excellency's pardon for troubling you wdth so long a scroll and 
which I had not time to copy. 

P. S. Genl. Clinton has wrote home to be recalled or reinforced with 
ten thousand men. 

565. Samuel Huntingtox to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^•^ Philadelphia, December 29, 1780. 

From the situation and disposition of the powers in Europe, Russia 
in particular, by the latest intelligence, Congress have thought it expe- 
dient immediately to send a Minister to the Court of Petersburgh, and 
for the sake of despatch, among other considerations, have appointed the 
Hon'ble Francis Dana, Esquire, (now in Europe and Secretary to Mr. J. 
Adams) to that important mission. The appointment ought not to be 
published at present, for obvious reasons 

From my present situation and engagements necessity obliges me to 
depend upon my colleagues to give your Excellency more particular and 
frequent intelligence than I can possibly do, which I have no doubt they 
will faithfully perform. 

^ See no. 529, note 2, ante, and no. 572, 608, 622, 638, post. 
[565]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 176. 



506 Continental Congress 

566. EzEKiEL Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Decem'r 30th 1780. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the Honour to receive your Excellency's favors of the 226. ult. 
and /th inst. by the last post. The President is informed that you had not 
received the Resolution recommending the six million Tax. But he says 
it went by the way of Boston, and thinks you have received it before this. 

In my last I informed you, of my intentions to return home, immedi- 
ately upon being relieved. But you will see by the enclosed Resolution 
of Congress, that I am elected as Commissioner of the Board of War.^ 
I confess I do not think myself fully justifiable in accepting the Appoint- 
ment without the Approbation of the State; whose directions I conceive 
myself bound to observe. As I did not solicit the appointment I flatter 
myself I shall be pardoned by my Constituents, and I have undertaken the 
task upon no other principle than that of serving my Country with honesty 
and faithfulness to the extent of my small Abilities. 

As no more expense will accrue to the State on account of my delega- 
tion, I have enclosed an account of my Expenses, and of the Moneys I 
have received, and will send the Vouchers by the first safe Conveyance. 

As I am now out of Congress, it is not in my power to give you a par- 
ticular detail of the transactions of that honorable Body. But I make no 
doubt you will receive the fullest information from Genl. Varnum whose 
pen is more able than mine. At the same time I shall continue to embrace 
every Opportunity in giving you every information that shall be for the 
Interest of the State, so far as shall come to my knowledge 

567. The President of Congress to John Laurens.^ 

Philada. January i, 1781. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed, a special Commission as Minister 
to the Court of Versailes, as also two letters under Seal addressed to his 
most Christian Majesty, with Copies of both Letters for your Information. 

[566]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 14; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 322. 

2 Cornell was appointed on the board of war as a member of Congress Nov. 21 
and was made a commissioner of the board (that is, as a non-member of Congress) 
Dec. 29. In October James ]M. Varnum was chosen to relieve Cornell as a delegate and 
took his seat Dec. 19. Although Cornell's seat was therebv' automatically vacated, 
nevertheless he was appointed by Congress on a committee the same day. He does 
not, however, appear to have attended Congress thereafter, although it was Varnum's 
desire, and apparently also that of Congress, that he should resume his seat upon the 
completion of the Confederation, in order that the state might not be left unrepre- 
sented. See no. 625, post. He continued, however, to write with such knowledge of the 
proceedings of Congress that extensive extracts from his letters during the next three 
months are included, although they have, with the exception of that of Jan. 7 (no. 577, 
post) been placed in foot-notes. 

[567]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 193. 



January, lySi 507 

Likewise Instructions for your Government on the Subject of your 
Mission of the 23d and 27th of December last, with Copies of Instructions 
to Doctor Franklin of the 28th of November and 27th of December Ulto. 
on the same Subject for your Information, and an Estimate of the Aids 
requested from his most Christian Majesty. 

My warmest \\'ishes for your Safety, Prosperity and Success attend 
you'' 

568. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. ist 1781. 

.... We have the Honor of transmitting to Yr. Excellency a Pro- 
posal from a Baron D'Arendt. He Speaks of a Commission with which 
he is charged but we have not yet seen his Commission or powers, we 
have seen Mr. Wm. Lees written request to him to endeavor to negotiate 
the Sending of Arms, Linen, etc. with Mr. Wm. Lee's promise to him in 
writing that if he Succeeded he sh'd be handsomely rewarded by the State 
of Virginia, but if not he shd. be Entitled to receive from that State 
twenty five Louis D'ors for his trouble; all these things we offer to Yr. 
Excellency at his request — (being ourselves Ignorant of the whole trans- 
action except as stated above) and wait your Orders thereon." .... 

569. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Jany. 2d, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We had it yesterday from under Genl. Washingtons hand that 
another embarkation is actually departed from N. York. amou[nting by 
best accounts] to abt. 2500 troops. There is little d[oubt] that they will 
steer the same course with the preceding detachments. Congress are under 
great anxiety for the States agst. which this accumulating force is to be 
directed, and the more so as the principal means of their defence is so 
little in their power. It is not so much the want of men as the want of 
subsistence arms and cloathing, which results from the want of money that 
gives the greatest alarm. A disposition appears to do every thing practi- 
cable for their relief and defence 

- See the Journals, Nov. 18, Dec. 5, 8, 11, 21, 23, 27, 28, nos. 539, note 5, 540, 546, 
547, 553, 563, ante, 572, 600, post. 

[568L Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Bland); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, I. 408 (part). 

-Baron d'Arendt's proposals, addressed "A L'Assemblee du L'Etat de Virginie", 
are in the Virginia State Library, Executive Papers, and are printed in Cal. Va. State 
Papers, 1. 408. Jefferson's reply to the delegates, Jan. 26, is in Official Letters, IL 302. See 
vol. IL of these Letters, pp. 22,, 25. Concerning the Baron's controversy with Congress 
over a related question, and also over the question of his pay as an officer, see no. 599, 
post. 

[569] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings (ed. Hunt), L 118. 



508 Continental Congress 

570. James Madison to Ambrose Madison.^ 

Philada. Jany. 2, 1781. 
Dear brother, 

.... The inclosed papers will give you the late proceedings of Cong's 
more fully tho' often very incorrectly, than could be done in a letter. The 
excise on spirits distilled in the Country will probably take place. In fact, 
considering the aversion to direct taxes and that the imports are already 
loaded, I see nothing else that can be done. Besides the duty on imported 
rum, requires a proportional one on Country rum, and this a duty on 
other spirits. The tax will I presume be so guarded as to operate on stills 
according to the quantity really distilled." .... 

Tell Capt : Dade that Gen. Knox has not yet reported on his case and 
that I will let him know the event of his claim as soon as it happens.^ 
Adieu. 

Yrs. aff'y 

571. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia January 2d 1780 [1781]. 
Dear General, 

.... Since Rivingtons publication I feel some reluctance at venturing 
my Letters by the Post. 

Your Excellencys Letter of the 27th Ulto. was Yesterday read in Con- 
gress and Refered to General Varnum myself and I think Colo. Bland. 
I shall call the Committee together as Soon as I receive the papers and 
Endeavor to have Some Rule adopted respecting promotions which will 
avoid the Difficulties Your Exc'y has been pleased to mention. I will En- 
deavor to Avail myself of Your Sentiments upon the Subject " 

I am much mortified that I could do nothing respecting the Jersey Line, 
the Jealosy of the States prevented any thing being done though often 
attempted by Mr. Clerk and myself. I could not Avail myself of Your 
Exc'ys Sentiments upon the matter as I had no right to Communicate any 
part of a Confidential Letter which Your Exc'y had honored me with.' 
I had much Difficulty to Save Colo. Smith who I know Your Ex'y would 
reluctantly part with. Mr. Duane was Indisposed and did not tend Con- 
gress Yesterday but a resolution for his being Continued was obtained by 

[570]^ IVritings (ed. Hunt), I. 119. 

- See the report of the committee for regulating the finances, Dec. 18, 1780, and 
the report of the committee of the whole Jan. 31, 1781. The subject can be followed in 
the Journals by means of the index reference " Impost ". 

3 Presumably Capt. Francis Dade. See Heitman, Hist. Reg. 
[571]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Two letters from Washington were read in Congress Jan. i, one dated Dec. 
20, respecting promotions of officers, the other dated Dec. 27, announcing the embarka- 
tion of the British fleet. It was that of Dec. 20 (Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 68) that is 
here referred to. The committee was Sullivan, Varnum, and Bland. See, further, the 
Journals, Mar. 8, 9, May 25, and no. 669, post ; also Sullivan's letters of Mar. 9, May 17, 
28, in the next volume. 

3 See Washington to Sullivan Dec. 17 (IVritings, ed. Ford, IX. 63, ed. Sparks, 
VII. 332) ; cf. no. 549, ante. " Mr. Qerk ", above, was of course Abraham Clark of 
New Jersey, but the name is clearly so written. 



January, lySi 509 

a very great Majority, a ^Motion was made this Day and warmly urged 
for reconsideration but did not prevail so a valuable Officer is Saved to 
the Army * 

I am not Certain but Dayton may yet be Saved by our Report on Your 
Exc'ys Letter of the 27th 

572. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Jany 2nd 1781. 
Sir, 

Probably you have heard that Mr. Dana is appointed minister to the 
court of Russia, Mr. J Adams, M P. to that of Holland, Col. J. Laurens, 
Minister for special purposes — vis to obtain supplies etc. to that of France. 
Instead of this last appointment, it was the opinion of a number of gen- 
tlemen, that our minister at the French Court ought to have been furnished 
with the aid of an active intelligent secretary, which would not occasion 
such disagreable apprehensions, which a measure of this kind would prob- 
ably excite.^ 

Mr. Williams has wrote that the reason why the clothing has not been 
sent, has been owing to a quarrel between Capt. Landais and some of our 
other officers. This account is not at present satisfactory. Mr. Williams 
says, that the supplies to the full amount expected will be soon here. 
Mr. Vergennes wrote to Mr. J Adams in regard to the act of Congress 
of the I2th [i8th] of March, and seemed to apprehend, that the act could 
not be justified; and supposed that the subjects of France, possessors of 
bills ought not to be affected by the act. Mr. Adams made a particular 
answer to this letter, and very justly stated the grounds on which Congress 
proceeded. W^ have not since heard any more of this matter, and prob- 
ably never shall. ^ 

The present French Minister at the head of the Maratime department, 
is said to be a gentleman, active and very friendly to the American inter- 
ests. A Mr. Cumberland secretary to Ld. G Germain, has lately been at 
Madrid. This is supposed to be a manoeuvre only, on both sides, for dif- 
ferent purposes ; and no great uneasiness is excited thereby.* The Span- 
ish Finances, are at present a little deranged ; so that no more bills at pres- 
ent will be drawn upon Mr. Jay. Not any very particular information has 
been lately reed, from him. Sir Harry Clinton has wrote for 10,000 addi- 
tional troops, to be sent over, this, the B. Court it is said, have agreed to. 
The object of future military operations will be, the Southern States. 

* See the Jourmls. Jan. i. The motion Jan. 2 to reconsider is not recorded in 
the Jourmls. This was Lieut.-Col. William Stephens Smith, who in July was made 
aide-de-camp to General Washington. See Heitman, Hist. Reg. 

[572]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. Ill (copy). 

2 See no. 567, ante, and no. 600, post ; also Jenifer to Franklin July 6, 1781, 
in the next volume. 

^ See no. 534, ante. 

* See no. 564, ante, and nos. 608, 622, 638, post. M. de Sartine, mijiister of marine 
(if it is he that is here referred to) , is not usually characterized as " active ". Cf. Perkins, 
France in the American Revolution, p. 301. 



510 Continental Congress 

G. Britain may not think it probable, that she will be able to prosecute the 
war much longer, and may hope, if she shall be successful, to settle the 
terms of peace upon an titi Posidetis. But this will not do. The terms 
upon which the war is to be carried on, or peace established, stand as they 
did 

As to the condition of the money here, the apparent discount is seventy 
five for one; according to the town agreement. This Convention occa- 
sioned an immediate rise upon the hard money price — the practical dis- 
count is loo for I. This has been principally produced by the vast influx 
of money from the Southward. This State has not only made their 
State['s] late emission, which had been reluctantly reed., of 40 for i, a 
tender, equal in value to specie, but have put the new bills, issued, according 
to act of Congress, upon the same footing. None of the New bills have yet 
been issued by this State, and they are not yet current here. The new bills 
have been brought from the Jerseys, who have also made them a tender, as 
Pensylvania has done. But the bills have not, or but in a sparing manner 
been reed. here. No new bills have been issued at the Southward from 
hence, that I know of. NC. have not adopted the money system. They 
have issued a large quantity of state bills, which pass cent per cent, below 
the old continental bills, although they are at a great discount. There is 
none of the 4/ios of the new bills been reed, by the Treasurer. Pensyl- 
vania are now collecting in due old bills, with a tolerable degree of 
industry. 

Bills upon France, drawn by Congress, sell at 75 per cent in currency, 
according to the stated rate of depretiation. They do not feel under any 
apprehension that they will not be answer'd. Congress have had it in con- 
templation upon a report of a committee which was long since appointed, 
to provide some means, extra to what has been already done, for supply- 
ing the treasury. The principal expedient proposed is an impost to be 
obtained of the States for 12 years, The duties previously to be ascertained 
by Congress. Nothing on this head is yet done, and it is easy to see, should 
Congress and the States adopt the measure it would be for a long time 
unproductive of any thing considerable.® It must give a considerate whig, 
deep chagrin, to know that a Country so fertile, as to furnish the Philadel- 
phia market weekly with provisions, collected within a small district, suffi- 
cient to support G Washingtons army upon their full establishment, and 
possessing almost endless resources, shall not adopt measures adequate to 
supply our wants. But I will make no observations. My letter is already 
too long. I will only say that we are embarassed by the currency, not of 
more value than half a million sterling, which it seems as though we could 
neither use nor get rid of. Will it not be necessary to put a period to the 
existence of these bills, by the first of next May, and that what shall not 
then be collected the possessors shall be paid specie for within a limited 
time after the war. 

^ See the Journals, Dec. 18 and Jan. 19 to Feb. 3; also nos. 514, 529, ante, and 
nos. 622, 623, 625-628, 633, 636, 638, 641, 642, post. 



January, 1/81 511 

573. James Lovell to Samuel Holten/ 

janry. 2d, 1781. 
Sir, 

Some days ago I got Sight of one of my Letters to Mr. Gerry published 
by Jemmy Rivington, but tho' I wrote to you on the same Novr. 20th 
I do not find thro' the same Chanel what was the nature of the Scrawl. 
I have, at some time, told you that I should aim to persuade my Colleagues 
to keep back the last Rule laid down by the Assembly for the Government 
of the Delegates of Mass : in Congress because from the very wording 
of the Resolve as well as from your Letter of a Date which I cannot now 
recollect, I am convinced that the intent was to oblige not more than 3 to 
attend on the Duties of the Delegation. I have so far prevailed as to get 
the Gentlemen to wait for some Explanation, but we have agreed to be all 
together punctual in attending to give our Voice, that we may not become 
culpable if such was the real intent on the Resolve ; but this very day proves 
what I before wrote, that I could be much more usefully employed in my 
Chamber than here in Congress, a packet boat being under absolute order 
for Sailing to France.^ 

The Paper of Dunlap is not a news Paper Today. 

Yours aflFectionatelv 

j:l. 

574. Joseph Jones to Theodorick Bland.^ 

Virginia, Jan. 2d, 1781. 
Dear sir, 

My ill state of health, and particularly a relapse that I was so unfor- 
tunate as to experience just after the receipt of your last favor, will I hope 
excuse me for not answering yours of the fifth ultimo. 

The subject of our claim to the free navigation of the river Mississippi 
is, in my opinion, a very important one to America, and ought not to be 
relinquished upon any consideration but absolute necessity, which alone 
can justify the sacrificing the clear and evident convenience and interest 
of a part of the states, for the advantage of the whole. The navigation 
of the Mississippi is of the first consequence to all the southern states, 
Virginia inclusive, and will be more so to those new states congress may 
hereafter carve out of the lands proposed to be ceded ; these are to be re- 
signed for an assurance of independence and subsidy; while Spain con- 
tinues to aid France, she as effectually aids us, as she would do, were we 
allied with her. If she is really in the condition with respect to her finances 
that she represents, what hope have we of obtaining a subsidy that will 
be regularly paid during the war ? and it is during that period our wants 
require her assistance. I have no apprehensions of the neutral powers 

[S73V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 224. 

2 See no. 550, ante ; also the Massachusetts resolve of Oct. 4, in the Journals. 
Jan. 2, and nos. 604, 668, post. 
1574]^ Bland Papers, II. 43. 

37 



512 Continental Congress 

interfering in our dispute, unless France shall appear disposed they shall 
do so; their professed object is very different, and the armed neutrality 
has been brought about more by French than by British politics. But why 
should Spain exact cessions from us, in our distress, or expect that we 
should sacrifice to her unwarrantable demands, essential interests, which, 
if yielded, can only lay the foundation of discontent, distrust, and unavoid- 
able quarrel in future? Let her act upon the same liberal footing with 
France, and treat upon principles of reciprocity. I like not, I confess, this 
buying her friendship. If it be done, it will be of short duration, and may 
in the future quarrel involve us in a disagreeable predicament with France. 
Those people who will settle on and near the waters of the Mississippi, in 
the United States, will use the river, and a rupture must inevitably follow ; 
better it would be for them and America, to settle the terms of this use 
now, so as to prevent future contest about it ; and harmony may thereby 
subsist between the natives a long time. If we give up our pretentions, 
nothing but power can regain them, and this struggle should if possible 
be avoided by the treaty now to be formed. Our appearing to relax in 
this claim serves to confirm and strengthen Spain in her hopes of success, 
so that we shall at last yield to her wishes. What may be the sense of the 
legislature, on this business, in its present state with Spain, I cannot say; 
but doubtless they will give their delegates their opinion for their conduct, 
if the question remains for determination. I have hopes that the assembly 
will take up the question of the back lands before they rise ; they promised 
to do so, if the members could be kept together, and I hear they had not 
broken up on Saturday." 

Our new levies I fear will be late in the field from the delay that the bill 
met with in the house. I have secured for the delegation a sum of money 
that will I hope serve them at least half the year, and shall when I come 
forward bring the bills with me. 

I hope to be able to do so about the 12th or middle of this month. 

575. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 4th 1781. 
Sir, 

The inclosed extracts, from Genl. Washingtons letters of the 13th and 
27th Ulto, and from Mr. Houston's of the 30th Ulto. and news papers will 
give you all the information from this quarter, worth communicating, 
except that, the fleet from New York is sailed ; what its destination is. we 
are at present uninformed, 'tis said Portsmouth in Virginia." 

There are now 1500 coats, some vests, and overalls, making up for the 
Southern army, and blankets are also procured for them : all of which 
will be forwarded without loss of time. And we hope with more care than 
has hitherto been done so as they may arrive safe. 

2 See no. 629, note 3, post. 
[575]^ William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 
2 See no. 595, post. 



January, I/81 513 

The resolve of Congress of the ist inst. is only the foundation of what 
is to be done for your department, the result, we will as early as possible 
inform you of. 

We are Sir with much Esteem and Regard 

Yr. most obedt. Servts. 

By Order of the Committee 

Jno. Mathews Chairman 

P. S. We will thank you for a copy of our last letter, having forgot to 
keep one ^ 

576. John Sullivan to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Bristol, January 6, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee of Congress being im formed that the troops are about 
to march to Trenton this night have concluded to remain at this place until 
they receive some intelligence from your Excellency; should you think it 
best we will set off immediately on the return of this express, or should 
• it appear most adviseable we will remain here till we receive further infor- 
mation from his Excellency." 

577. Ezekiel Cornell to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 7th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I observe in your Excellency ['s] letter of the 22d of November you 
mention that Mr. Howel had broke gaol etc. I can only say I never saw 
him or the other person you mention. And that I opposed the permit that 
was given him. the scim milk letters of last winter were too recent in my 
memory not to have my doubts on Mr. Howels honesty." 

We have undoubted inteligence from N. York that the Infamous Arnold 
saild from that place on the 22nd Ulto. with sixteen Hundred men under 
his Command his destination unknown but it is generally beleived to 
be to the southard. The southern part bring inteligence that there was 
between 40 and 50 sail of \"essels in Hampton Road or rather the mouth 

3 The last letter from the committee which has been found is that of Dec. 12 
(no. 542, ante). 

[576]! Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, II. 166 (signed, "by order of the Com- 
mittee", by Sullivan). 

2 Late in the afternoon of Wednesday, Jan. 3, information was brought to Con- 
gress of the mutiny of the Pennsylvania line, and a committee, consisting of Sullivan, 
Witherspoon, and Mathews, was appointed to confer with the executive council of 
Pennsylvania "on the subject matter of the intelligence received this day". Jan. 5 Atlee 
and Bland were added to the committee. It does not appear that Mathews ever took 
any part in the proceedings of the committee. See the Journals, Jan. 3, 5, 8, 10-12, 18, 
24, Feb. 2, and nos. 576-593, 596-598, 601-603, 605, 607, 609, 610, 614, post. 

[577] 1 Manuscripts of the late William D. Ely of Providence, R. I.; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., LIX. 289. 

2 See nos. 404, 409-412, ante. 



514 Continental Congress 

of James River, it is conjectured the above fleet is the one that Arnold 
sailed with. 

The Pennsylvania Line of the Army Mutinied this day week at their 
Hutts near Morristown.^ The officers attempted to quell the Mutiny but 
in vain, two of them a Major and a Capt. were killed in the affair, the 
Troops obliged all their officers to quit them and then Marched of [f] the 
ground takeing with them the Artillery and Commissary stores And ar- 
rived at Princetown on Thursday last where they still remain, they have 
promoted Two Sergt. Majors to B. gens, and other sergts. to other subor- 
dinate stations to whose government they submit and the greatest order 
is kept up among them, it is said not a single Inhabitant hath been plun- 
dered. On Saturday last the mutineers sent to General Wane Two spys 
they found in their Camp, which it seems Mr. Clinton had sent from 
N. York upon hearing of the Mutiny with proposals of their joyning him 
or at least to lay down their Arms and that he Mr. Clinton would pay all 
that Congress had promised, which Congress was neither willing or able to 
pay, all which they despised. The soldiers have many Complaints such as 
want of Cloathing pay etc. But one complaint that is singular to the line 
of Pennsylvania is that Many of them were Inlisted to serve Three years 
or during the War. the Officers determined they should serve during the 
War. I suppose these greaveances must be relieved before the Troops will 
return to their duty. The President of the State and a Committee of Con- 
gress consisting of five members are gone to princetown. I expect the 
affair will be accommodated and after discharging all those whose Inlist- 
ments come under the description I have mention [ed] the remainder will 
return to their duty. I fear the same disposition will soon appear among 
the Other Troops if they are not soon paid, where the Money is to come 
from I must leave, there is none at this place that Congress can command 
for that or any other purpose. 

A few days past the Noted Ma jr. Rogers was brought prisoner to this 
place having been taken on his passage from N York to S Carolina.* 

578. John Witherspoon to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Trenton, Jany. 7th, 1781. 
The Committe of Congress now at Trenton have received authentic 
information that Commissioners are sent to Amboy from N. York to treat 
with Pennsylvania Troops, (we suppose tis South Amboy that is meant 
but it would be prudent to have both the Amboys in View), the Com- 
mitte are of opinion you shd. take such measures as appear most prudent 
and practicable, to get possession of those Commissioners." 

P. S. The above is submitted to your Judgment according to the Situa- 
tion of Affairs and the other Intelligence you may have received. 

2 See no. 576, ante. 

4 Maj. Robert Rogers. See vol. I. of these Letters, pp. 201, 205, vol. II., pp. 6, 12. 
[578] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (signed, "In behalf of the Committee", by Witherspoon); Hazard, Reg. 
of Pa., II. 188. 

2 See no. 576, ante, and no. 579, post. 



January, ij8i 515 

579. John Witherspoon to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Trenton, Jany. 7th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee of Congress are obliged to your Excellencys Communi- 
cations by Col. Shield, we esteem it as a happy prelude to a return of the 
Troops to their Allegiance. We doubt not your Excellencys improving so 
favourable a Symptom to bring the matter to as speedy, safe and honor- 
able an Issue as possible. The Committee will wait here for your further 
Communications of the progress you make and prepare themselves for 
every Event, to aid your Endeavours and to give them all the success, that 
the Powers vested in them by Congress can enable them to do." In name 
of the Committee in Genl. Sullivan's Absence 

Jno. Witherspoon. 

580. John Witherspoon to the President of Congress.^ 

Trenton Jany. 7, 1781. 10 oClock. 
Sir, 

The Committee arrived here last night and met with Mr. President Reed 
who had been near Princeton and sent a Letter to General Wayne by two 
of his light horse." They were suffered to proceed to the Genl. with the 
Letter unopened. He at the Request of the Sergeants showed it to them 
and it was to be read to the whole this Morning. There were Symptoms 
that they would be content with the Proposals and make the Matter up. 
It appears from all Accounts that they have behaved with surprising Regu- 
larity in all Respects ftheir Revolt excepted) and seemed disappointed 
that Mr. Reed did not proceed and trust himself to them. He is this Morn- 
ing gone back and we are happy to inform you that Dr. Shields is just 
come in and says that a person from Gen. Clinton with another for his 
Guide had come to their Encampment and made them the Proposals of 
which the inclosed is A copy.^ They received it with so much firmness and 

[5791^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Hazard, -R^^r. 0/ Pa., II. 188. 

- The communications from Reed referred to in the beginning of the letter have 
not been found. See however Reed's letter written from Bristol Jan. 5, in Hazard, 
Reg. of Pa., II. 160 (" Direction lost ". but probably to the committee) ; his letter 
written from Trenton Jan. 6, "3 o'clock", and addressed to the committee (ibid., II. 
164) ; and his letter of the same day, " Past il o'clock at night", supposed to have been 
to Mr. Barclay, at whose house the committee were lodging (ibid., II. 165). The letter 
to the committee bears the note : " X. B. This letter was designed for the committee, 
but as they came over the river, I send it to you to save repetition " ; and the letter 
to Barclay begins : " The enclosed letter to the Committee of Congress, which was 
[made] unnecessar^'^ by their arrival at this place, will inform you of my proceeding till 
12 o'clock." This letter is also found in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1280 (p. 31), where 
extracts from a number of other letters pertaining to the mutiny are printed. All three 
letters are in Reed. Life of Reed, II. 319-323. See nos. 576, note 2, 578, 579, ante, and 
nos. 580-584, 589-591, post. 

[580]! Librarv' of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 447; Cal. Va. 
State Papers, II. 149. 

- See no. 579, ante. Two letters from Reed to Wayne, Jan. 7, are in Hazard, 
Reg. of Pa., II. 166, 167, and Reed, Life of Reed. II. 323-32^. 

^ The document referred to was Qinton's proposals to the mutineers. A copy, 
in Witherspoon's writing, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 449. A copy was 



516 Continental Congress 

Indignation that they not only rejected the Proposals but seized the two 
Agents and delivered them to General Wayne who sent them under a 
Guard and delivered them to Blair McLanachan and Alexr. Nisbet two 
of the Light Horse who have them now in Custody. The Committee are 
immediately to write to Gen. Reed and expect a speedy and happy Issue of 
this Affair. 

I am * in name of the Committee Genl. Sullivan being absent Sir your 
most obedt. humble Servant 

John Witherspoon. 

P. S. That you may not think the above is only Reports Genl. Reed 
saw and read the Paper and sent it on to us and kept the Prisoners with 
himself. Dr. Shields ^ saw them in Custody. 

581. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Trenton, January 7th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee appointed by Congress to quiet the disturbances of the 
Pennsylvania Line, etc., think it proper to inform your Excellency that 
they arrived at this place last night after dark; And that President Reed 
who acts in concert with us has proceeded to the neighbourhood of Prince- 
ton at which place those Troops are now posted. We are happy to inform 
your Excellency that some favourable appearances of a speedy and honor- 
able, as well as a safe accommodation, has appeared in their Conduct this 
Morning; as they have given an earnest of Their sincerity and intentions 
by no means equivocal ; by seizing a Negociator sent to them from New 
York, together with his Conductor, both of whom they delivered up to 
Genl. Wayne, and have sent them out under a Guard with their Papers. 
They are actually now in the Hands of President Reed, and we do our- 
selves the Honor of sending your Excellency a Copy of the Terms offered 
them in writing by those Emissaries. Shou'd your Excellency have any 
Communications to make to Congress relative to the present State and 
Temper of the Army, we request that you will be pleased to make them 
through us, and direct them to this place." 

enclosed in Madison's letter to Jefferson Jan. 9, and is printed in Cat. Va. State Papers, 
p. 149. It is also printed in Hazard, Reg. of Pa., II. 167. Various documents relating 
to the mutiny are ibid., II. 137-139, 158-160, 164-168, 188-190, 204-206, 218-219. See 
nos. 581-584, 589-591, 596-598, 601-603, 605, 614, post. 

•* The words " I am " are written over " We are ". The Virginia copy is 
" Signed in behalf of the Committee ". 

2 This was doubtless Dr. Hugh Shiell, a recent emigrant from Ireland, whose 
letter to the board of war (June 19, 1780) resulted in the resolution of June 30, 1780, in 
behalf of Lieut. Connolly Coan. The board refers to him as " Doctr. Shields ", but his 
letter is signed " Hu : Shiell ". The question had first been referred to Washington, who 
bad stated that the decision must rest with Congress (letter of June 25). Aug. 10 Shiell 
wrote to the President of Congress desiring permission to purchase a vessel in which 
to have his property conveyed from Ireland to the United States, and asked for an order 
of protection to the vessel and property. See the Journals, Aug. 10. In the Pa. Mag. of 
Hist, and Biog., XXXIX. 483, among some notes on " Pennsylvanians in Kentucky ", is 
an abstract of his will, dated Aug. 24, 1782. 

[581] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers (in the writing of Samuel J. Atlee, 
but signed by Sullivan) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks). III. 194. 

2 See nos. 576, 578-580, note 3, ante. 



January, 1781 517 

582. John Sullivax to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed)/ 

Philadelphia Jany. 8th 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee of Congress not having heard from your Excellency 
Since yesterday noon Despatch an Express to obtain IntelHgence where 
you are and what Success you have had. They wish to know whether any 
thing appears necessary for them to do respecting the afifairs as they wish 
to do Every thing in their power to bring this unhappy Dispute to a favor- 
able Issue." 

583. John Sullivan to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Trenton, Jan. 8, 1780 [1781]. 
Sir, 

The Committee of Congress have reed. yr. Excellencys favor of this 
Date with its Inclosures ■ and Send you herewith the Result of their De- 
liberation upon the Terms which they are of opinion ought to be held out 
to the Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line.^ 

[582]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Generals of the American Revolution, I. 21 
(signed "by order of the Committee" by Sullivan) ; Hazard, Reg. of Pa., H. 189. 

2 See nos. 578-581, ante, and nos. 583, 584, 589-591, 596-598, post. 

[583]^ Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1280, p. zZ'j Hazard, Reg. of Pa., II. 189 (signed "By 
order of the Committee, Jno. Sullivan"). 

- Reed appears to have written three letters to the committee Jan. 8. The one 
here referred to, evidently v^^ritten in the morning of the 8th, is in the Library of Con- 
gress (Cont. Cong., Misc.), printed in Bland Papers, II. 46. and Life of Reed, II. 327. 
With regard to the other two see nos. 589, 591, post. Still another letter of the 8th, 
probably to the executive council, is in Hazard, Reg. of Pa., II. 189. 

3 A text of the proposed resolutions follows the letter in Hazard, Reg. of Pa., but 
that given below, varying only in some minor particulars, is taken from the copy in the 
Washington Papers, transmitted by the committee with their letter to Washington 
Jan. 9 (no. 590, post). To the text in Hazard is appended the following: "Note in 
Gov. Reed's writing. ' Received after my proposals were made and accepted and there- 
fore not offered '." 

" In Committee of Congress, Trenton Jany 8, 1781 

" Resoh'ed, That all Soldiers who have voluntarily enlisted for the War or have 
received the hundred Dollars Bounty ordered by Congress shall be held during the War 
and entitled to receive the same Bounty as the New Recruits from the respective States 
only deducting therefrom the hundred Dollars at the real Value when received ; But as 
it may so happen that some Soldiers may be detained in the Service who have received 
the hundred Dollars contrary to their Inclinations all such who can make it clearly 
appear to Persons appointed for that Purpose as herein aftermentioned that they have 
been so detained shall be immediately discharged. 

" Resolved, That all Soldiers who are now held by Inlistments expressing the Term of 
Service to be for three Years or during the War and have not voluntarily reinlisted and 
received the hundred Dollars bounty shall be immediately discharged 

" The Committee trusting in the Sincerity and Attachment of the Pennsylvania Line 
to the american Cause and (notwithstanding the unwarrantable Steps they have taken) 
from the Moderation and Conduct in the Discipline and good Order they have observed 
and being convinced that their assembly was for the Redress of Grievances have further 
resolved that on producing Lists regimentally of those non commissioned Officers and 
Soldiers who fall within the different Classes of Grievances complained of with Regard 
to the Terms of Enlistment, Pay Bounty and Clothing that they will immediately 



518 Continental Congress 

P. S. It is the Decision of the Committee that you make use of the 
foregoing Resolutions only as you shall find them Necessary to answer 
the purposes in View. 

584. John Sullivan to the President of Congress/ 

Trenton, Jany. 8th, 1781. 
Sir, 

By Direction of the Committee I have the Honor to Inform your Ex- 
cellency That we waited at this place Yesterday in Expectation of hearing 
from President Read but received no Intelligence till This Day at noon, 
when he Informed us by Letter that upon his going into Town The Troops 
of the Pensylvanian Line Treated him with every mark of Respect. That 
after a Long conference with the Board of Sergeants he offered them 
Such proposals as he thought Reasonable and about Midnight returned to 
Maidenhead that he had been Informed by Straglers this morning that 
his proposals were in general agreable to the Troops — he requested the 
opinion of your Committee respecting the Terms which was immediately 
communicated and we flatter ourselves the Dispute will Soon be happily 
Terminated. The British Emissaries mentioned in our Letter of Yester- 
day were Delivered on Condition of being returned upon their Demand. 
This was a Circumstance not known to us when we wrote yesterday. They 
Demanded them Last evening but agreed that they should be forth Com- 
ing to the order of President Read. The Emissaries are now in Close 
Confinement. Another Invitation from the British was this morning 
found before the Colledge wrapt in Sheet Lead which they immediately 
Delivered to General Waine. 

They have in Every Instance Shown a Disposition to return to Duty 
upon receiving Compensation for their past Services and Justice being 
done to them respecting the term of their Inlistment and by no means to 
Join the British but upon a Conviction that Justice could not be obtained. 

But from the Positions they have taken, their Demanding a return of 
the emisaries and many other Circumstances it is evident they mean this as 
a Dernier Resort in case of their not obtaining Reasonable Terms. 

The Jersey Brigade and a Large number of the Jersey Militia are posted 
so as to prevent their Joining the Enemy in case Lenient Measures should 
not have the desired Effect. 

Since writing the above we have rec'd further Dispatches from presi- 
dent Read Copies of which are Inclosed which with General Waines Let- 
appoint Commissioners to examine and report thereon that full and ample Justice shall 
be done to the Claimants by discharging such as are entitled to their Discharge giving 
them Certificates of Pay and Clothing due to such as have Claims 

" The foregoing Terms being accepted the Committee resolved that upon the Soldiers 
of the Pennsylvania Line delivering up the british Emissaries sent to corrupt them 
and submitting to their proper Officers they will publish a free and general Pardon for 
all OflFence committed by the non commissioned Officers, and Soldiers of the said Line 
from the 31st of Deer last to this time" 

[584] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 455. 



January, 1781 519 

ter and the papers Inclosed will give you Every Information which we 
can give.'^ 

I have the Honor to be by order of the Committee Most respectfully 
Yr. Exc'ys most obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Sullivan 

2 See nos. 576, 578-583. ante, 589-591. 596-598, 601-603, 605, 614, post. In the 
Washington Papers are two copies (broadsides) of the proposals of President Reed and 
Brig.-Gen. James Potter to the mutineers (printed in Hazard, Reg. of Pa.j II. 138). They 
are as follows : 

"PROPOSALS 

" Made to the non-commissioned Officers and Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line, at 
Princeton, January 7, 1781. 

" His Excellency Joseph Reed, Esquire, President, and the Honourable Brigadier- 
General Potter, of the Council of Pemisylvania, having heard the Complaints of the 
Soldiers, as represented by the Sergeants, inform them, that they are fully authorized to 
redress reasonable Grievances, and they have the fullest Disposition to make them as easy 
as possible ; for which End they propose, 

" First. That no non-commissioned Officer or Soldier shall be detained beyond the 
Time for which he freely and voluntarily engaged, but where they appear to have been 
in any Respect compelled to enter or sign, such Enlistment to be deemed void, and the 
Soldier discharged. 

"Secondly. To settle who are and who are not bound to stay, three Persons to be 
appointed by the President and the Council, who are to examine into the Terms of 
Enlistment ; — where the original Enlistments cannot be found, the Soldier's Oath to be 
admitted to prove the Time and Terms of Enlistment, and the Soldier to be discharged 
upon his Oath of the Condition of the Enlistment. 

" Thirdly. Where-ever any Soldier has enlisted for three Years or during the War, he 
is to be discharged, unless he shall appear afterwards to have re-enlisted voluntarily and 
freely. — The Gratuity of Oiw Hundred Dollars given by Congress, not to be reckoned as 
a Bounty, or any Men detained in Consequence of that Gratuity. — The Commissioners to 
be appointed by the President and Council, to adjust any Difficulties which may arise on 
this Article also. 

" Fourthly. The Auditors to attend as soon as possible, to settle the Depreciation with 
the Soldiers and give them Certificates. — Their Arrearages of Pay to be made up as soon 
as Circumstances will admit. 

" Fifthly. A Pair of Shoes, Overalls and Shirt will be delivered to each Soldier in a 
few Days, as they are already purchased and ready to be sent forward, whenever the 
Line shall be settled. — Those who are discharged to receive the above Articles at 
Trenton, producing the General's Discharge. 

" The President hopes that no Soldier of the Pennsylvania Line will break his Bargain, 
or go from the Contract made with the Public^and they may depend upon it, that the 
utmost Care will be taken to furnish them with every Necessary fitting for a Soldier. 

" The President will recommend to the State to take some favourable Notice of those 
who engaged for the War. 

" The Commissioners will attend at Trenton, where the Clothing and the Stores will 
be immediately brought, and the Regiments to be settled with in their Order. A Field- 
Officer of each Regiment to attend during the Settlement of his Regiment. 

" Pursuant to General Wayne's Orders of the 2d Instant, no Man to be brought to any 
Trial or Censure for what has happened on or since New-Year's Day, but all Matters 
to be buried in Oblivion. 

Jos. Reed, 
James Potter." 

As printed the broadside, from which the text is taken, had " Trenton " in the date- 
line and "Governor" in the two paragraphs following the fifth article, but these words 
were corrected by pen to Princeton and President, respectively. See the propositions of 
the committee of Congress (no. 583, note 3, ante), also the committee's final report 
{Journals, Jan. 24). 



520 Continental Congress 

585. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. 8th, 1781. 
Please your Excellency, 

About 8 o'clock last Monday night the Pensylvania line mutinyed, the 
1st and 5th regiments remained on the ground, but were forced by the 
others to join, two Captains were killed, several subalterns and privates 
wounded in attempting to suppress them. They marched in a body to 
Prince Town, in spite of every efifort (of?) their officers to reduce them 
to order, where they remain under the command of the sergeants with 
guards posted, Genl. Waine, Cols. Steward and Buttler are at Princetown, 
to whom the mutineers have sent a guard. President Reed went to Prince- 
town last Friday and a Committee from Congress are at Trentown. 

Their grievances are, ist, that many of them enlisted for three years or 
during the war, and are held in service over the three years by vertue of 
such enlistment ; 2nd, that they have not received their pay or cloathing ; 
but what had great influence in raising the mutiny was, recruiting officers 
coming among them with hard money to enlist the seven months men who 
had received large sums for the seven months service. This was too much 
for them to bear. Last Saturday a spy with a guide from Genl. Clinton 
came into their camp with proposals a copy of which is enclosed; they 
took them both and sent them with the proposals to Genl. Wayne, who 
sent them to Trenton where they are safely lodged in goal." .... 

The time for paying the army is arrived; the plan of the i8th of March 
last is productive of very little money yet, and appears more and more 
dubious. I think there must be a total reform of the system. Congress 
must exercise the proper powers and establish all the necessary executive 
boards and offices ; and as the wealth of a nation is the aggregate wealth 
of its citizens, the spring of industry, and economy the prospect of advan- 
tage, which prospect will be more or less opperative according to the 
opinion the people have of the justice of the government under which they 
live, the security it affords to property, and the liberty it gives to every 
one to make the most of what they have to put off in an honest way; to 
remove therefore all fetters and embarrasments on trade, except with the 
enemy, omit to force upon any person paper bills for money, and to take 
measures to encourage industry and economy, and to revive the confi- 
dence of the people in the justice of their rulers, I think is the only natural 
and wise method to extricate ourselves from our present embarrassments 
into which we are bro't in some measure by unnatural expedients. 

This will lay a foundation to enable the citizens to pay largely for the 
public use, and give government firmness and support; but every expedi- 
ent must be attempted before we will consent to adopt those plain, easey 
and natural methods which are the only paths to wealth, peace and safety. 



[585]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 179. 

2 See nos. 576-585, ante, and nos. 587, 589-593, 596-598, 601, 602, 605, 607, 609, 
610, 614, post. 



January, 1/81 521 

Congress have passed a resolution directing retaliation to be made on 
the British troops in our hands for the barbarities exercised by them 
towards our people.^ 

Also have called upon the States to raise by the ist of March next 
80,000 dollars in specie for the support of the prisoners the quota as- 
signed to Connecticut is 9,855 do's.* 

This was done upon a representation that they were much in debt and 
suffered exceedingly for want of money. The Journals of Novr. are not 
out. 

586. James Lovell to Timothy Pickering.^ 

Jan. 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I see Jemmy Rivington has catched you. He is a Telltale Scoun- 
drel, is he not. You would smile to hear what Work Interpreters make 
here of my References to some Salt Mackrel which Gerry promised to 
send to Mrs. Clymar. And they make my Abreviation of Massachusetts, 
relate to romish Mass. Genl. Warren's Account with the Commercial 
Com'tee is mistaken for Something against Religion because his name was 
gutted Genl. W ' 

587. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia 8th Jan. 1780 [1781J. 
Sir, 

Was I to give you my Sentiments at large upon the Political situation 
of the United States, it would lead me into a Labyrinth of Deductions, 
too tedious for my present Leisure and too complicated for your Amuse- 
ment. Without entering therefore into the Infinity of Circumstances 
which at present form the Embarrassments of our Systems, it will be 
sufficient to observe, that the want of Money and Credit involve Congress 
in Perplexities which cannot be fully removed, 'till the Operations of New 
Plans, shall be equally felt throughout the Union. The want of a fixed 
Consideration frustrates almost every Measure, and the dull inergetic 
Mode of Procedure, resulting from the long Habits of insipid Formality, 
render our Efforts too feeble and dilatory to effect the greatest Objects. 
Party Intrigues have some Share in our Councils, but they are far from 
influencing in Matters of General utility. Whenever they are attempted, 
they appear rather under the Garb of expiring Struggles than in the Ex- 
pectation of Success. 

The Army have been without pay for a Long Time, which added to 
some other Causes, produced on the ist Instant, a general mutiny in the 
Pennsylvania Line. Two Officers were killed and two wounded. About 

3 See the Jminials, Jan. 5, and no. 588, post. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 8, and no. 588, post. 
[586]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVIII. 68. 

-See nos. 518, 550, ante, and no. 634, post. 
[587]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 105; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 324. 



622 Continental Congress 

six Privates were Slain, and the Insurrection is not yet quelled. Sir Henry 
Clinton sent an Emissary among the Mai Contents, with mighty Promises 
of Money, Protection, etc., etc. But the Lads, so far from being dis- 
affected with the American Cause, received his offers with Indignation, 
and sent the Spy with his conductor and a Copy of his Proposals to Genl. 
Wayne. The President of this State is with them, and a Committee from 
Congress in the Vicinity. The Militia of Jersey are in the Field, and I 
trust the matter will terminate happily in a short Time." We have Ac- 
counts this Day that Arnold, with about sixteen hundred Men, is in Chesa- 
peake Bay; and that the Inhabitants of Georgia have returned to their 
Allegiance, by opposing the British Government, under Governor Wright. 
We have been very successful to the Southward under Genl. Sumpter and 
others, but our situation in that Quarter is far from promising much to 
our Advantage. This Winter is big with Serious Events. Our resources 
are great, but we must exercise much wisdom and resolution to manage 
them with Propriety. General Cornell is elected into the Board of War, 
and therefore will not return this winter. Your Tickets, etc., are safe. 
I have the Honor of being Sir, with greatest Respect, 

your Excellency's most obedt. servt. 

J. M. Varnum. 

588. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Philadelphia, January 9, 1781. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed Copies of two Acts of Congress of 
the 5th and 8th Instant." .... 

It is presumed the Necessities of those Officers, the Distresses they have 
already suffered and the more disagreeable Situation they must yet be 
reduced to for Want of the Means of Subsistance unless those Supplies 
are obtained, will be sufficient to induce a Compliance with this requisition 
as speedy as possible. 

589. John Sullivan to the President of Congress.^ 

Trenton, Jany. 9th. 1781. 
Sir, 

Since our Last Dispatch by Mr. Duer forwarded this morning we have 
received further Intelligence from President Read Informing that the Pen- 

- See no. 585, note 2, ante. 

[588] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 203; Mass. Arch., CCIH. 204; Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, IX. 115; copy from 
original to New Hampshire, in possession of the Carnegie Institution; Pa. Arch., first 
sen, VIII. 702. 

2 The act of the 5th respecting proposed retaliation and that of the 8th respecting 
quotas for the benefit of officers in captivity at New York are summarized. See no. 
585, ante. To the Virginia letter is added a postscript, " I have been honored with your 
Letter of the 25th of November ". The Journals record, under Dec. 4, 1780, the receipt 
of a letter of Jefferson dated Nov. 26, but no letter of that date or of the 25th has been 
found. 

[589]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 461 (signed "by 
order of the Committee, Jno. Sullivan"). 



January, 1/81 523 

sylvania Line had in consequence of a recquisition for that purpose and 
the Terms offered them [agreed]" to March to this Town. They are now 
vis 2 o'clock within two miles of Town and Some of them are already 
arrived. We flatter ourselves that they will here receive their officers and 
that The unhappy Dispute will be brought to a favorable Issue. Should 
we be Disappointed in our hopes Yet the bringing forward the Troops to 
this place will be gaining a great point in Case other than Lenient Meas- 
ures should become necessary ^ 

590. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Trenton, Jany. 9th 1781. 
Dear General, 

I have the Honor to Inclose Your Exc'y by Direction of the Committee 
a Copy of a Letter from Govr. Read with Copy of the proposals made by 
the Committee to the Mutineers of the Pensylvania Line by which first it 
appears that they are Determined to Accept of the Terms offered and we 
flatter ourselves That this unhappy Dispute will Soon be brought to a 
favorable Issue ^ 

I have the Honor to be 

Most Respectfully, Yr Excys most obedt. Servt. 

Jno Sullivan 

591. John Sullivan to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed).^ 

Trenton, Jan. 9, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee was last evening honoured with your Excellency's 
favour and its inclosures dated at Maidenhead 7 o'clock P. M. copies of 
which have been sent to Congress," We now dispatch a Light horseman 
to know the present appearance of affairs at Princeton and whether the 
Troops are about to march for Trenton this morning. 

We do not understand the propositions of the Serjeants to be that any 
of their body were to sit with the commissioners; but they requested a 
voice in the appointment only. To this we have no objections. 

We wish matters may be brought to an issue as soon as possible, and 
that your Excellency will inform us by return of this express what pros- 
pects you have of bringing them to a conclusion from present appearances. 

- The word " agreed " was first written between " had " and " in consequence ", 
above, then erased, evidently with the intention of inserting it at this point. 

3 The intelligence from President Reed was doubtless the second and third 
letters of Jan, 8, that written at " half past 2 o'clock ", in Bland Papers, II. 44, Life of 
Reed, II. 326, and that mentioned in nos. 590, 591, post. See no. 583, note 2, ante. 
[590]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See nos. 583, 589, ante, and no. 591, post. 
[591]! Hazard, Reg. of Pa., II. 189. 

2 Reed's letter of Jan. 8 referred to is in Hazard, Reg. of Pa., II. 189, Bland 
Papers, II. 45, and Reed, Life of Reed, II. 327. See nos. 583, 589, ante. 



524 Continental Congress 

592. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

[Philadelphia, January 9, 1781.] 
Sir, 

The inclosed extract of a letter from Genl. Washington, No i, will give 
your Excellency a more particular account of the late embarkation from 
N. York, than has been before obtained." 

On Thursday ^ last Congress were informed by General Potter and 
Col : Johnston who came Expresses for the purpose, that a general mutiny 
of the Pennsylvania Line stationed near Morris Town, apart from the 
rest of the Army, had broken out on the morning of New Year's day. 
Every effort was made by the Officers to stifle it on its first appearance, 
but without effect. Several of them fell victims to the mutineers. The 
next information came from Genl. Wayne who wrote from Princeton, 
whither the troops had marched in regular order on their way to Philada., 
as they gave out not to lay down their arms nor return to their obedience 
'till their grievances should be redressed. They did not suffer any of their 
officers to remain with them except Genl : Wayne, and Cols : Stewart and 
Butler, and these they kept under a close guard, but in every other respect, 
treated with the utmost decorum. The greivances complained of were 
principally a detention of many in service, beyond the term of enlistment, 
and the sufferings of all from a deficient supply of cloathing and sub- 
sistance, and long arrearage of pay. Several propositions and replies on 
the subject of redress passed between a deputation of Sergeants on the 
part of the Troops and General Wayne, but without any certain tendency 
to a favorable issue. The affair at length took a very serious aspect, and 
as a great proportion of that line are foreigners and not a few deserters 
from the British Army, and as they showed a disposition to continue at 
Prin[c]eton from whence a refuge with the Enemy, who it was said were 
coming out in force to avail themselves of the situation of things, was 
very practicable, it was thought necessary to depute a Committee of Con- 
gress with powers to employ every expedient for putting a speedy end to 
it. The President of the State with a number of Gentlemen from this 
place also, went up to interpose their influence. The inclosed Copy of a 
Letter from the Committee No 2, with the paper No 3, referred to in it, 
are the last accounts received of the matter.* The manner in which the 
offers and emissary of Clinton were received and treated, is a very auspi- 
cious circumstance, and will probably in its impression on the Enemy fully 
balance the joy and encouragement which this event tended to give them. 

Col : Bland being one of the Committee does not join me in this. 

[592]! Co/, j/a. State Papers, II. 148. 

- The extract is from Washington's letter of Jan. 2, read in Congress Jan. 8 
{Writings, ed. Ford. IX. 85, ed. Sparks, VII. 346). 

3 Evidently Wednesday ; a special session of Congress was convened at six 
o'clock to consider the matter of " the intelligence received this day ". See no. 576, 
note 2, ante. 

4 The committee's letter is no. 580, ante ; the enclosure No. 3 was Clinton's 
proposals, there cited. 



January, 1781 525 

593. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton/ 

Philada. Jany. 9th, 1781. 
D'r S'r, 

. . . .■ By a letter from the Committee who had proceeded as far as 
Trenton reed, the evening before last, it appears that the President who 
was ahead and had written on to Genl. Wayne was likely to have a con- 
fidential reception. The Committee write that an Emissary of Clinton had 
appeared among the soldiers with a paper setting forth the folly and dan- 
ger of adhering to a cause which had already brought so much misery 
upon them, promising a protection under the British Govt., a body of 
troops to cover their escape, and payment of all arrears due from Con- 
gress, was siesed and given up to Genl. Way[n]e who handed him with 
his guide over to the President of this State, who placed them under the 
custody of his light horse. This circumstance not only presages a fortu- 
nate issue to the Mutiny, but is such a proof of attachment to the Country 
in the most trying situation as must effectually repress the joy and encour- 
agement which the Enemy had taken from this threatening event. The 
late detachm't from N. York which a letter from Fred'ks[burg] says is 
in the Chesapeek is abt. 1600 strong and commanded by Arnold. 

594. Oliver Wolcott to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelp'a, 9th Jany. 1781. 
Sir, 

I enclose to your Excellency an order of Congress for printing the 
civil constitutions of the several States 

I will observe to your Excellency that this present measure has been at 
this time adopted, upon the recommendation of Mr. J. Adams, for for- 
eign information, and that most of the constitutions of the States are now 
ready for publication, and that therefore unless the acco. of the constitu- 
tion of Connecticut is soon had it will occasion a delay. 

The condition of the money here continues much as it was when I did 
myself the honour to write last to your Excellency. None of the new bills 
of the i8th of March have been yet issued in this State. By Act of gov- 
ernment the bills which shall issue upon the credit of this State are made 
a tender at 75 for one. The old currency which has yet been brought into 
the Treasury of this State has issued to procure supplies. The new bills 
cannot be said to have a currency in this city. A clothier from Jersy a few 
days ago brought a large sum of the new bills of that State here to lay 
them out to procure supplies, but could not purchase with them the sup- 
plies wanted. A very few of the new bills have issued in Maryland. That 
State gave liberty to any person to exchange the old bills for the new at 

[593]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 108 1 ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), 
I. 77; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 120. 

2 To this point the letter is nearly identical in language with the letter to Gov- 
ernor Jefferson, no. 592, ante. 

[594]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 183. 



520 Continental Congress 

333/3 for one. This Act is said now to be altered and the exchange is at 
40 for one. I shall make no observations upon these facts, only observe 
that unless the United States as such can establish a fund, and possess the 
sole power of regulating whatever can be called money within all the 
United States, I do not see how any kind of publick credit can be sup- 
ported. A superintending power destitute of any estate, any funds, any 
power to establish such, or to controul or regulate the money of a country, 
is perhaps a novelty in the history of mankind. Congress have been fre- 
quently considering the subject of their finances. They have adverted lately 
to the subject, and this perplexing affair will be probably farther reviewed. 
To obtain a cession from the States to regulate all foreign commerce, to 
impose such dutys on trade as Congress shall think proper pro bono pub- 
lico, to call upon the States for their plate, and an unequivocal cession of 
their unlocated territory, will probably be the principal objects of delib- 
eration ; and in the mean time to devise some expedient for the immediate 
pay of the army. At present we have no certain prospect of being able to 
answer this last most pressing demand so soon as we wish for, as the calls 
of the army are very urgent 

595. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 9th 1780 [1781.] 
Sir, 

We are desired by Congress to transmit you the inclosed resolutions. 
Nothing new has transpired since we last wrote, informing you of the 
departure of the British fleet from New York, except that in less than 
forty eight hours after their sailing, there was a most violent storm, which 
we have the best reasons to imagine they had to encounter. This circum- 
stance we flatter ourselves, will be attended with many advantages, as it 
will necessarily cause delay on their part, and give the longer time for your 
reinforcements coming in. And further, that our Express will reach you 
before they can, and although the notice of their approach may be short, 
yet it will be of consequence.^ 

We are Sir with much Esteem and regard 

Yr. most Obedt. Servts. 

In behalf of the Committee 

Jx. Mathews Chairman 

596. John Sulli\^\n to the President of Congress.^ 

Barcleys House Jany. loth, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to Inform Your Exc'y by Direction of the Committee 
That the Insurgents marched into Trenton Yesterday and are now in Con- 
ference with President Read who has the proposals of Your Committee 

[595]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See no. 575, ante. It is not certain what were the resolutions enclosed, 
[596] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 465. 



January, 1/81 627 

to Communicate, and there Seems Some Prospect of bringing the Dis- 
pute to a happy Issue. Every measure has been pursued by the Committee 
to Accomplish the Business Intrusted to them - 

I have the Honor to be with the most perfect Esteem 

Yr. Exc'ys Most obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Sullivan 

597. JoHX Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Barclay's House (near Trenton) Jany. loth 1781, 

8 o'clock, Even'g. 
D'r S'r, 

We are Happy to inform Your Excellency that the terms offerd to the 
Pennsylvania troops are at length finally and as we believe cordially and 
satisfactorily agreed on, and to morrow we expect the Pennsylvania line 
will be arranged in its former order. Constitutionally, no Concession has 
been granted them that the critical Situation of our affairs did not War- 
rant and Justice dictate." 

As an earnest of their Sincerity they have this night sent to us under a 
strong guard, the two spies sent out by S'r Harry Clinton with offers of 
terms to them, who are now in this House under a Guard of the Philadel- 
phia Light Horse, and a Court, Consisting of Genls. Wayne and Irwin, 
Cols. Butler and Stewart and Ma jr. Fishburn at this Moment determin- 
ing their fate. Several other Emissaries have been sent out by S'r Harry, 
who have more prudently delivered their Credentials to us ; whether more 
Honestly time will determine. In short the whole progress of this affair 
except the first Tumult has been conducted on their part with a consis- 
tency, firmness and a degree of Policy mixed with candor that must aston- 
ish every theorist on the nature of the American soldiery; and cover 
S'r Harry with Shame and Confusion, if not stigmatize him with the ap- 
pellation of the Prince of Blunderers, for having so illy succeeded in 
essays of this kind. 

Commissioners appointed by the Committee of Congress Consisting of 
Colo. Atlee, Genl : Potter, Mr. Blair McClanaghan, and Capt. Morris, of 
the Philadelphia Li't Horse will proceed tomorrow to adjust their Claims. 

Jany. nth, 8 of Clock, A. M. The British Emissaries are condemned, 
and will be executed this morning at nine. The Commissioners are now 
Setting to Determine which of the Troops ought to be Discharged and 
which to remain and we Trust this Day will Compleate the Business.^ 

- See Reed's letter to the committee Jan. 9, in Bland Papers, II. 49, Lije of Reed, 
II. 329. Letters of Reed to others than the committee, Jan. 10-13, are in Hazard, Reg. of 
Pa., II. 204, 206, 218-219. See nos. 580, 583, 589, ante, 597, 598, 601, 602, 605, 614, Post. 

[597]^ Librar>- of Congress, Washington Papers (signed, "by order of the Committee", 
by Sullivan) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 198. 

- See no. 596, ante, and no. 598, post. 

3 The postscript is in Sullivan's writing, the body of the letter in another hand. 

38 



528 Continental Congress 

598. John Sullivan to the President of Congress/ 

Barcleys House Jany nth, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to inform Your Excellency by Direction of the Com- 
mittee That the Two British Emessaries who were yesterday Delivered 
up by the Pensylvania Troops have been Tryed and Condemned by a Board 
of officers and will be Executed This morning This Cuts off all Prospects 
of a reconciliation between the Troops and Sir Henry Clinton. The Com- 
missioners appointed to Determine who ought to be Discharged are now 
Sitting. Genl. Waine has gone to Penny Town to bring in the Com- 
manding officers of the Respective Regiments to Take their Command 
and we flatter ourselves that This Day will Terminate the affair. They 
have not as yet Dissolved their Board of Serjeants Though it is probable 
they will do it upon the arival of their Officers.^ 

I have the Honor to be with the most perfect Esteem 

Your Excell'ys most obedient Servant 

J NO. Sullivan 

599. The Secretary of Congress (Charles Thomson) to 
Richard Peters.^ 

Sir, 

Baron d'Arendt preferred a memorial to Congress, desiring to have an 
act passed approving the reasons of his absenting himself over the time 
allowed by his furlough. This was referred to the board of War. He now 
complains that the board has not reported on that matter and he desires 
to know whether Congress will continue him in service and employ him 
in negotiating between the United States and the court of Prussia or in 
the line of the Army or in both. As to the matter of negotiat'g the Baron 
having no letters of credence nor other documents to prove that he is au- 
thorized to act in behalf of his court I believe Congress will not deign to 
take any notice of his pretentions. As to his staying over his time and 
being employed in the Army they expect a report from your board. He 
claims to be paid for the time he was absent in silver or bills of exchange. 
You can easily judge whether the situation of our affairs and the justice 
due to the officers who have been exposing their lives in the service while 
he was absent will admit of a compliance with this demand." .... 

Jany. 11, 1781. 

[598]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. IX., f. 469. 

2 See nos. 596, 597, ante, and nos. 601, 602, 605, 614, post. 
[599]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Wayne Papers. 

2 Cf. no. 568, ante. Baron d'Arendt's memorial was read in Congress Dec. 5, 1780 
(cf. Vergennes to Franklin May 11, 1780, and Franklin to Congress May 22, in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 671, 697). There was a report Jan. 5, by the commercial com- 
mittee, on another memorial, but it was not until Feb. 13 that the board of war brought 
in its report. Meanwhile other letters from the Baron had been laid before Congress 
(see the Journals, Jan. 10, 29, Feb. 5, 13). His problem had in fact several phases and it 
labored for a good many months. See, further, the Journals. Feb. 21, 27, Apr. 26, May 11, 
June I, 26, July 7, 11, Sept. 11, 21, 28, 1781, Feb. 11, 18, 1782. 



January, lySi 529 

600. The President of Congress to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (John Hancock)/ 

Philadelphia January 12, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copy of the 26th 
Ulto. that Congress request the Assistance of the Executive of Massa- 
chusett[s] if necessary, in manning, and fitting for Sea the Alliance, with- 
out Loss of Time. It was supposed the Board of Admiralty had for- 
warded a Copy of the enclosed soon after the Date, which I find probably 
not to be the Case 

It is proper to acquaint your Excellency, (though it should not be made 
public at present) that Col. John Laurens is going to France in the Alli- 
ance, and his Mission is of such Importance and requires such Despatch, 
that the Frigate ought to sail for that Purpose as soon as possible 

I have taken the Liberty to trouble your Excellency with the enclosed 
Packet addressed to Mr. Laurens. It is expected he will be in Boston ( Via 
Newport) by the Time, or soon after this reaches you ^ 

601. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Trenton Jany. 13th, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have only time to Inform Your Exc'y by Colo. Smith that the British 
Spies have been Executed. The Commissioners are now Busy in adjusting 
the Claims and redressing the Grievances of the Pensylvania Troops and 
we Trust That Every Danger of Defection is past.^ 
I have the honor to be Most respectfully 

your Exc'ys most obedt. Servt. 

By order of the Com'te 

Jno. Sullivan C'mn 

602. John Sullivan to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Trenton, January 13, 1780 [1781]. 
Sir, 

The dispute with the Pennsylvania Line being happily terminated, I 
take the liberty of giving your Excellency a short account of the rise and 
progress of this unexpected and surprising revolt. 

Many of the men were held by enlistments which expressed the time of 
service to be for three years or during the war. As the three years began 
to expire about the first of January they inquired of their officers whether 
they were to expect their discharges at the end of that period. The officers 

[600] 1 Mass. Arch., CCIII. 206; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 208, 
2 See the Journals, Dec. 26, 1780; also no. 539, note 5, ante, and no. 610, post; also 
John Laurens's letters to Congress Feb. 4, 7, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 249, 252. 
[6oi]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See nos. 596-598, ante, and nos. 602, 605, 614, post. "Colo. Smith" was 
presumably William Stephens Smith, aide to Washington. 
[602] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Sullivan. 



530 Continental Congress 

in general supposed the term of enlistment was not to expire but with the 
war. This construction gave them much uneasiness which was increased 
by some arrearages of pay which they were to have received from the 
state not being furnished; and though the state had taken measures for 
paying these arrears unfortunately the intelligence had not reached them 
previous to the first of January. These were the real sources of the mutiny ; 
for though there were some other grievances common to the American 
as well as other armies they have never mentioned these as having any 
weight in their proceedings. The two first affected a great part of the 
divisions, who used every art to induce others to support them in their 
intended revolt, which they vv^ere the more encouraged to attempt as they 
were sixty miles distant from the main army. 

The affair was conducted with so much secrecy that the officers had not 
the most distant suspicion of it till the evening of the first of January, 
when hearing that the troops were in arms, they repaired to the parade and 
not supposing it was general exerted themselves to quell the mutiny. The 
soldiers showed no disposition to injure their officers, though some who 
were intoxicated with liquor discharged their muskets, killed one officer, 
and wounded three or four. Part of the divisions moved a few miles that 
evening and the remainder followed them. The next morning when the 
whole assumed a military order under the command of their sergeants 
and marched without offering the least insult to the inhabitants except in 
one instance, for which the culprit was immediately apprehended and de- 
livered over to the court of civil power. The inhabitants say that on their 
march they never suffered the soldiers to enter their houses, even for 
water; nor was any article taken from them during their march. Upon 
their taking post at Princeton it began to be suspected that their intention 
was to join the enemy but they persevered in declaring their detestation 
of the British and their attachment to the cause of their country. They 
said they were only seeking a redress of grievances, which when obtained 
they would cheerfully return to their duty, and if the enemy appeared in 
the interim, they would fight them with desperation. This however was 
not fully credited until they seized and brought to Gen. Wayne who with 
Col. Butler and Stewart remained among them without command two 
British emissaries from Sir Henry Clinton with a written invitation prom- 
ising them great rewards if they would march to South river about twenty 
miles distant from Princeton where he would cover them with a body 
of British troops. The spies were delivered over to General Wayne 
and after Governour Read's arrival, to him. But afterward at their request 
returned to them. The board of Sergeants who had assumed the com- 
mand issued orders next morning, stating the facts and declaring that 
the Pennsylvania line despised a treachery and meanness like that of 
Benedict Arnold's — that their views were honourable and their attachment 
to the cause of their country unalienable and that they were only seeking 
redress of grievances from men of honour. When Governour Reed came 
to Princeton they received him with every mark of respect and esteem. 
They mentioned to him the ground of their complaints, which were prin- 
capally the two first mentioned. He made them some proposals and com- 



January, lySi 531 

municated some from the Committee of Congress which were readily 
accepted. They were then requested to march to Trenton which they 
agreed to and deHvered to the Committee of Congress the spies sent from 
[Sir] Henry CHnton who were tried by a board of officers, condemned and 
executed on the nth instant. The committee of Congress have appointed 
Commissioners to determine respecting their enlistments, to discharge 
such as are entitled thereto and to give them the necessary certificates. This 
seems to be perfectly satisfactory to them and many of those discharged 
are now offering to reinlist upon having a furlough for a short time. 

Thus sir has this surprising affair been brought to a happy issue. 
Perhaps history does not furnish an instance of so large a body of troops 
revolting from the command of their officers, marching in such exact 
order, without doing the least injury to individuals and remaining in this 
situation for such a length of time without division or confusion among 
themselves and then returning to their duty as soon as their reasonable 
demands were complied with. 

This conduct ought to convince the British how much they mistake the 
disposition of the Americans at large when they assert that they would 
willingly join them if not overawed by their tyrannic rulers. Here was 
a large body composed as well of foreigners as natives, having no officer 
to command them and no force to prevent their joining the enemy for 
which they had repeated invitations ; yet though they well knew they were 
liable to the severest punishment for their revolt, they disdained the Brit- 
ish offers (with a firmness that would have done honour to the ancient 
Romans [ ) ] ; and through the whole have shown the greatest respect to 
the Committee of Congress, to the Governour and members of the Coun- 
cil from the state of Pennsylvania and expressed the highest confidence 
in the justice of their civil rulers, and have not through the whole devi- 
ated from that order and regularity, which upon other occasions, must 
have done honour to military discipline.' 

I have the honour to be with the most perfect esteem, your Excellency's 
most obedient servant. 

Jno. Sullivan. 

603. James Madison to Nathanael Greene.^ 

[January 13, 1781.] 
I enclose you an extract of a letter from General Washington of the 
2d instant, giving a more precise account of the embarkation from New 
York on the 20th ulto. than has been before obtained. On the night of the 
1st instant a mutinous spirit which had been for some time working in 
the Pennsylvania Line of the Army broke out with such violence that the 
utmost efforts of the Officers were insufficient to suppress it. Two of 
them unhappily fell victims to the fury of the Mutineers, after completely 
shaking of [f] all military authority they proceeded in an entire body and 

2 See nos. 576, 578-584, 589-591, 596-598, 601, ante, 605, 614, post. Cf. the report 
of the committee, in the Journals, Jan. 24. 
[603]! Henkels, Catalogue, no. 988, item 699. 



532 Continental Congress 

in regular order to Princeton with an intention as they gave out to come 
on to this city and with a determination neither to lay down their arms nor 
return to their obedience until their grievance should be redressed. These 
consisted principally in the detention of many in service beyond the term 
of enlistment, and the sufferings of all from deficient supplies of cloathing 
and provisions, and the long arrearage of pay, contrary to their first plan 
they declined coming to this place and established their encampment at 
Princeton, where they entered into negotiations with Genl. Wayne, Lt. 
Cols. Stuart and Butler (the only officers they suffered to remain among 
them and whom they kept under close confinement, although in every other 
respect they treated them with the utmost decorum) on the subject of 
redress. The nature of some of their demands and the manner of their 
proceeding gave at length a very serious countenance to the affairs, and 
as the proximity of Princeton to a place of junction with the Enemy was 
surmised to be the probable motive of their stopping at that place, as it 
was confidently alleged that the Enemy were coming out in force to avail 
themselves of the event, and as many of the troops were foreigners and 
not a few deserters from the British Army it was thought best to appoint 
a Committee with full powers to take the necessary steps for quieting the 
disturbance as speedily as possible. In consequence of the appointment 
the Committee judged it advisable to proceed immediately to meet the 
Troops. The President of the State with several other Gentlemen from 
this place had set out for the same purpose a little time before then. The 
information since received both from the former and the latter is, that 
the President had met with a confidential reception from the troops, that 
they had given up to him and Genl. Wayne, an emissary and guide from 
Clinton with a flattering invitation to them to take sanctuary from their 
miseries and the resentment of those who had usurped the public authority, 
under the British Government, that they had been prevailed on to come 
forward as far as Trenton where an accommodation on principles of equity 
was pretty far advanced and in a sure train of being soon completed, and 
that the emissary and guide were under sentence of death, and would be 
executed yesterday morning.^ 

604. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry.^ 

Jan. 15, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I take it for granted that Rivington's Publication of my Letter to you, 
with some explanitory notes of some virulent Refugee, will make not a 
little Talk. I feel no anxieties about the Consequences but I have a Curios- 
ity to know the Operations generated by it in your Quarter." 

You can have little Idea of what we suffer here from Want of Money: 
it is immensely more than what you knew sometimes from the Sluggish- 
ness of the Press-Handle when it worked only at single Tides. 

2 See nos. 589-593, 596-598, 601, 602, ante, 605, 614, post. 
[604] 1 Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison, of Harvard University. The 
letter is addressed : " Honble Elbridge Gerry Esq : Boston By Mr. Braylesford." 

2 The reference is to his letter of Nov. 20 (no. 518, ante). See also no. 634, post. 



January, lySi 533 

You will be fully allarmed by the Letter of Genl. Washington to the 
Governor of Mass : Heaven prosper you on your Committee of Ways 
and Means. 

To say nothing of the Hardship of 3 attending to give a Voice when 
only 3 attend on the Duties of the Delegation, the Vote of the State hangs 

on the Health of the Labourers too much. Mr. A is too unwell 

today to be abroad : and be assured that the Health of all of us is precari- 
ous indeed, if quiet minds are essential to the Soundness of our Consti- 
tutions.^ 

I wish to hear as often from you as possible and I promise a Return 
alike conditionally. 

Yrs. 

JL 

605. TOHX SULLIVAX TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Trenton Jany, 15th 1781. 

We have hitherto given Your Excellency Intelligence from time to time 
of the state of things respecting the Pennsylvania line, and have now the 
pleasure to Inform you, that the terms agreed on by the Committe from 
the Executive Council of Pennsylvania with them are now carrying into 
Execution, in as peaceable and Quiet a manner as could possibly be ex- 
pected, two Regts have been already settled with, with regard to their 
terms of Enlistments and for want of their Enlistments and attestations 
being produced a great proportion of them have had Certificates to be dis- 
charged. They on their part have delivered up the spies sent from S'r 
Harry Clinton, who have been both Executed, by the Sentence of a Board 
of officers composed of Genls. Wayne, Irwin, Cols. Butler, Stewart and 
Majr. Fishbourne 

We Inclose Yr. Excellency a Copy of the terms which are the Grounds 
on which their Claims are to be adjusted, and we have remain'd here to 
Interpose the Authority or Judgment of Congress in case of necessity shd 
it have been found necessary in the Course of adjusting them, but have 
hitherto kept that Influence as much as possible in reserve altho by being 
on the spot we have shewn that it is the disposition of Congress to do them 
strict Justice. Their Board of Sergeants still Continue to sit and Issue 
orders, and absolutely refuse to give up their authority to their officers, 
untill the whole matter is finally settled indeed there seems to be an in- 
superable breach between the Men and their officers, and a Total want of 
Confidence in them " 

We are Yr. Excellency's Most obedt. Sevts. 

by order of the Committee 

Jno Sullivan 

3 See no. 550, 573, ante, and no. 668, post. 
[605]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 
2 See nos. 581, 590, 597, 601, anie. 



534 Continental Congress 

606. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee/ 

Philada. Jany. 15th 1781. 
My dear Sir, 

Your second Letter came to hand in due Season. My much Esteemed 
Friend Mr. Arthur Lee will take the Charge of this. I will say to you as 
I have said to my Boston Friends, who are sollicitous to know what Treat- 
ment he meets with here, The more I have conversed with him, the more 
I have been confirmd in a good opinion of him, and lamented the Mis- 
takes and Prejudices of some Men and the Wickedness of others. His 
Enemies, I think, dare not openly attack his Reputation or Conduct. But 
the Whispers of Envy and Malice, have sometimes Influence enough to 
prevent the Justice due to the virtuous Citizen. When this is the Case, 
it affords a Symptom of the Decay of publick Spirit, more threatning to 
the Liberties of a Common Wealth than Hosts of foreign Enemies. 
Monarchs have their Favorites who serve as Pimps on their honest Sub- 
jects. But Republicks should examine the Conduct of their Servants with 
an impartial Eye ; and it discovers the Want of publick Virtue, as much, 
to withhold their Smiles from the wise and good as to bestow them on 
the wicked and unfaithful. Mr. Lee has as yet had neither Smiles nor 
Frowns. I am still in hopes, he will meet with the Rewards which I am 
sure he would have received if he had returnd a few years ago. He will 
have them, when the Trustees of the Publick shall have Fortitude enough, 
to be uninfluenced by great Names and Characters given to Men of base 
and depraved Minds. You will ask, when that will be. Perhaps not in this 
Age. But the Historian will in some future time draw forth the Proofs 
of his Patriotism, and unprejudiced Posterity will acknowledge that Arthur 
Lee has borne a great Share in defending and establishing the Liberties 
of America I say Posterity; for I believe that a wiser Generation will 
enjoy the Fruits of the Toil of Patriots and Heroes in the present Day.^ 



607. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, January i6th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I have no Doubt but that you have had an account of the Mutiny which 
has lately happened in the Pensylvania line. We were at first under great 
apprehensions that their Designs were to go over and Joyn the Enemy, and 
that they had given other Reasons as austensible merely to cover their 
Real Design. But they have given Convinceing proofs that their only aime 
was a Redress of grievances ; for General Clinton from New York sent 
out two persons among them while they were at Princetown, with pro- 
posals and Invitation to come over to him; the terms which he offered 
were very plausible, and generous, and was sufficient to try the virtue of 

[606] 1 Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 239. 

2 Arthur Lee's accounts had recently been before Congress for adjustment. See 
the Journals, Oct. 19, 30, Nov. 6, Dec. 2, 11, 15, 28, 1780, Jan. 2, 3, 8, 16, 1781. 
[607]! Clinton Papers, VI. 378. 



January, 1781 535 

Troops who had suffered much less than ours. But after Reading them to 
the Hne at large, they Rejected them with indignation, Siezed the Spies 
who brought them, and Delivered them over to General Wane to be Dealt 
with as should be proper, and who last week had an Enquiery on them 
and Executed them. I have not learned their names; the one we under- 
stand was a Sergeant in the New Levies. Congress sent a Committee with 
President Reed to hear their Complaints, and to Redress their Real griev- 
ances which I am happy to inform you they have Effected to the Satisfac- 
tion of the Soldiers who have Rec'd their officers and Returned to their 
duty. 

By what I can understand the principle Reason that gave Rise to the 
mutiny was that many of the Soldiers of that line, who were Inlisted for 
three years or during the war, were detained in Service after they had 
served three years, which they Considered as unjust, not doubting but 
that they ought to be discharged at the end of either period which should 
first happen. The Exact terms upon [which] they have settled the matter 
I am not able to give you but one of them is that all those who were held 
under the above Circumstance are now discharged. But I understand that 
this State has Collected a sum of hard money which the president has on 
the spot, and that for a small Bounty in Specie many of them have Re- 
inlisted.^ .... 

Congress are Endeavouring to devise some mode to pay for the flour 
seized by virtue of your Excellency's warrant for that purpose to our state 
agent, and communicated to Congress by General Washington. However 
desireous they may be to make Compensation for the provisions thus ob- 
tained, yet they are put to difficulties to know from whence the money 
can be obtained for that purpose.' 

By a Circular Letter from Congress which you will Receive about the 
time you'l receive this, your Excellency will discover the Embarrased Cir- 
cumstances of America, and it is to be hoped that the delinquent States 
when they see the danger which awaits them, and the Continent in general, 
by Reason of their neglect or inattention, that they will be Induced to 
Exertions beyond what they have yet made.'* 

Congress are fully sensible of the Exertions of the State of New York 
in this Contest, but as that Letter is Circular, it is proper that our State 
should receive one. 

608. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

r.. Philadelphia, 16 Jan'ry, 1781. 

Your Excellency will receive a circular letter from the President of 
Congress, the principal object of which is to obtain pay for the army. In 

2 See nos. 576, 577-585, 587, 589-593, 596-598, 601-603, 60S, ante, and nos. 609, 610, 
614, post. 

8 The matter came before Congress Dec. 29, 1780, through a letter from Wash- 
ington dated Dec. 22, enclosing an extract of a letter from Governor Clinton of Dec.^ 15. 

4 The circular letter is in the Journals, under Jan. 15. Copies of it exist in a 
number of repositories. 

[608] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, III. 187 (signed by Wolcott and 
Root). 



536 Continental Congress 

it also the States are requested to furnish provisions according to the 
former resolutions of Congress.^ The disappointment of pay, together 
with the deficiency of the supplies of provision and cloathing, accompanied 
with some other unhappy circumstances, has produced such discontent in 
the Pennsylvania line as has finally occasioned a considerable number of 
them to be discharged from the service. Such an unhappy event, it is hoped, 
will not take place with regard to any other line, but we certainly ought as 
speedily as possible to remove every cause which has produced it. The 
provisions for the army are expected to be derived from the several States 
according to former requisitions. The reason why the cloathing has not 
been reed, which was to have been sent from France is not yet fully known, 
in all probability there must have been some great neglect in those charged 
with the shipping of it. But it is said that it may be soon expected. 
The pay of the army was expected to be made by the new bills, and which 
are now most urgently called for. But shall these bills seasonably issue 
and obtain all the credit expected from them they will probably be found 
very insufficient to defray the expences of the next campaign, including 
the large sums now due in arrears, even should the usual mode of taxation 
be augmented as farr as can be reasonably expected. In this veiw an 
application will be renewed for a foreign loan. But the success of this 
measure to us appears too precarious to be relied upon, and indeed the 
utility of the measure we apprehend may very justly be doubted, when we 
consider the vast resources of this country, which might be drawn forth 
adequate to our wants (except cloathing and military stores which we can 
obtain from abroad) in case our revenue was but proportionably increased. 
Wheither this cannot be effected we conceive demands the most serious 
attention, and likewise to consider wheither some funds for the use of the 
United States as such cannot be established. The last year has given us 
the most distressing experience that there are many national expences, 
which the States individually cannot discharge, nor, by reason of the un- 
certainty and deficiency of the sums paid into the Continental chest by the 
usual modes of taxation, can any confidence be placed upon their being 
paid. The existence of a power (if it can be called such) constituted for 
national purposes, especially for directing the affairs of a war, not pos- 
sessing any constitutional authority to command the smallest portion of 
property, is scarcely conceivable. We apprehend that over and above such 
taxes as shall be collected from particular States, for general uses, grounded 
upon regular estimates, and which taxes granted for such purposes ought 
to be regularly paid and strictly appropriated, that there ought also to be a 
power vested in such as superintend national affairs to raise a revenue 
from such property as cannot with convenience nor advantage be subject 
to the controul of any particular State, and thereby extend the publick 
credit by establishing a revenue purely national. 

We cannot say but that sentiments of this kind may be tho't improper. 
But when we find ourselves charged in our political capacity with the vio- 
lations of ingagments, and feel the loss of national credit, these senti- 
ments appear to us just. What has been principally talked of and expected 

- The circular letter is in the Journals, Jan. 15. 



January, ijSi 537 

to obtain this end has been a cession to the United States of their unlocated 
territory, and that the States vest Congress with exclusive powers to regu- 
late foraign commerce and to lay reasonable dutys upon imports and ex- 
ports. This is a measure not yet agreed to, and we cannot say what will 
be done in regard to it.^ 

Before we close this letter we cannot but express our grief that a people 
who generally possess the most ardent desires to establish their libertys 
upon the fullest conviction of their high importance, that a country abound- 
ing with men and supplies, yet from a defect in their constitution or coun- 
cils or both of them, should not seem to have it in their power to call 
them forth with more advantage. And altho our past experience has 
proved to us that our exertions have been aided by the Almighty, and 
that our cause is supported by two of the belligerent powers of Europe. 
and countenanced we believe by all the rest, except our open and professed 
enemys, yet we seem to be in a condition as if we did not possess those 
advantages. This strange situation can hardly be otherwise accounted for 
than that the national principles from whence union and force are to be 
derived are not properly established, and it may with equal propriety be 
said that proper arrangements to ascertain and check the publick expendi- 
tures have not yet been made, and that there is a general defect in the 
establishment of the civil executive departments acting immediately under 
Congress. These objects are likewise in contemplation and may possibly 
be put upon a more advantagious footing.* 

We have no intelligence to communicate to your Excellency but what 
you will find in the publick papers. 

609. Oliver Wolcott to Tappixg Reeve.'- 

Philadelp'a 16 Jan'ry 1781. 
Sir, 

The unhappy Disturbance in the Pensylvania Line is quieted. Many 
of them are Discharged, especially such as claimed to be dismissed as 
they had inlisted for three years or during the War. This Ambiguous 
Inlistment has been the Occasion of much Dificulty — besides this the State 
hired Men lately at the Incampment of the Line to inlist during the War 
by a Bounty of Nine pounds in Specie. Those circumstances, attending 
such as have been common to the other Lines. Viz. the Want of Pay and 
proper supplies, seems to have been the principal causes of the late Dis- 
turbance. The Line discovered their abhorrence of entering into the Brit- 
ish Service by their rejecting very alluring offers and by their delivering 
up to be executed the Emissarys Sent out by the British Commander to 
seduce them from their allegiance." 

Every Principle of Justice as well as Prudence dictates the Necessity 
of paying the Army. And Congress have called again upon the States to 
enable them to effect it. To Pay and Provide for the Army ought cer- 
tainly to be the primary Objects in every Deliberative Council. 

3 See nos. 564, 572, ante, 617, note 2, 622, 625, note 3, (i26, 628, (ij,2„ (>Z(^, 638, post. 
* See no. 621, note 2, post. 
[609] 1 Boston Public Library, Chamberlain Coll., Ch. E, 9, 53. 
- See no. 607, note 2, ante. 



538 Continental Congress 

You will Perceive by the enclosed Paper that the Enemy have begun 
to Ravage Virginia. We have no very late News Southward of that State 
But what you will probably see in your own Papers. The general state 
of affairs in Carolina and Georgia seems to be that the enemy are exer- 
cising the greatest severity upon the Inhabitants, and that the People 
especially in the Northern parts of those States are taking every oppor- 
tunity in which they are frequently successful to repel the Violence. 

We have no very late Intelligence from Europe. 

The New Money of the State is but just coming out, so that it cannot 
yet be said, what will be the Degree of Credit which it will obtain. But 
it will soon be in Circulation, wheather the Tender act of this State will 
accelerate the circulation cannot now be ascertained 

6io. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada., Jany. i6th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have yet received no official report of the result of the 
conciliatory measures taken with the revolted soldiers at Trenton. From 
oral and circumstantial evidence there is no doubt that they have been 
successful. A discharge of a part from the service and a supply of cloath- 
ing and money to the rest is the price of their submission. This much, 
considered in itself was required by justice and is consequently consistent 
with dignity. But considered with respect to the circumstances attending 
the negotiation, there is but too much ground to suspect that it will be 
attributed to our fears, and is therefore not a little mortifying. Happily 
the example, as we understand by a letter from Genl. Washington reed, 
yesterday had not infected the other parts of the Army. As the same 
causes however which engendered this malignant humour in the Pennsyl- 
vania line are known to exist in the other lines, we cannot be sure that 
the same effects will not yet take place in the latter unless they be speedily 
removed. As one step towards it Congress are endeavoring to profit by 
the Alarm which this event must have excited in the States by calling upon 
them for the means of immediately furnishing some pay to the troops of 
their respective lines. ^ 

You ask me what I think of the Delegate Extraordinary to Congress? 
I wish you had told me what you think of such an appointment. It is pretty 
certain I believe that people in general will not consider it as a proof of 
confidence in the ordinary Delegation. As Mr. Jones who I believe pos- 
sesses the confidence of his Country and I am sure will have as much 
weight in Congress as any man that will be sent on such an occasion, will 
come about the same time, and having attended the Legislature will be as 
well informed in every point of view I cannot deny that the appointment 
appears to me to be, at least a supernumerary one. I wish the good effects 
of it may show that I am mistaken.^ 

Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), 
[. 122. 
- occ iiu». ut/:), uu/, injte 2, ante, and no. 614, post. 

3 Concerning the special envoy to Congress see no. 540, ante, and nos. 647, 
649, 652, 660, 661, post. Joseph Jones, in attendance upon the Virginia assembly at Rich- 



[6io]i Library of Congress, Madiso 
I. 79; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 122. 

2 See nos. 605. 607, note 2, ante, and no. 614, post. 



January, lySi 539 

The trade of this City has just suffered a very severe blow. No less 
that [than] seven fine Vessels have been taken out of an Outward bound 
fleet and carried into N. York. 

[P. S.] The Emissary from Clinton and his guide were executed on 
Saturday morning last. 

6ii. The North Carolina Delegates to John Laurens^ 

(-,. Philadelphl-v Jany. i6th 1781. 

A particular knowledge of the state of the country which we have the 
honor to represent in Congress being so necessary for enabling you to 
give a just Idea of the situation of the affairs of the united states to his 
most christian Majesty and his Ministers, and your own attention having 
been so much engaged in the business of the field as probably to have 
prevented your attending to the acquiring of such knowledge, we presume 
our Ideas will not be entirely useless and therefore we oft'er them to you." 

Thus Sir, you see we are in a very ill condition to oppose an enemy who 
can convey their supplies up the rivers of South Carolina near to the 
scene of action, while ours are at a prodigious distance, widely scattered, 
capable of transportation only by land, and the means of that transpor- 
tation extremely deficient. 

From this view you will clearly percieve how important an object it is 
to attack the enemy on the Sea coast in such force as to oblige them to 
withdraw their troops from the interior country, and this under the 
auspices of a naval superiority. The scene of war would then be removed 
to a country where positions could be taken with advantage and supplies 
furnished in abundance through the navigable rivers, bays an[d] sounds 
of Virginia, North and South Carolina. 

mond (though temporarily absent on the occasion to which he refers), wrote to Madison 
Jan. 2 : 

" It seems there was a ballot for a person to repair to Congress and the General, 
in consequence of the resolution I before mentioned to you, the day Braxton wrote, and 
the House having divided between the Speaker and R. H. Lee, the question could not 
be decided. As the Speaker being the person in question could not [vote] in his own 
case, after much debate and perplexity Lee withdrew his pretensions, so that Harrison 
stood elected. Braxton says the old fellow was so disgusted with the vote that he believed 
he would resign his appointment. Should that be the case I question whether any one 
undertakes the embassy, especially as it is in great part superseded by Col. Laurens 
appointment. No doubt but the delegates in Congress by proper instructions could 
have done everything this agent can do, but as he is to attend the governor and our 
delegation thin, it was thought best to appoint some person not of the delegation, as he 
would necessarily be absent for some time on the visit to Head Quarters. I told Mr. Henry, 
the father of the proposition, I had no doubt but every proper measure was already taken 
and that I did not believe any good would result from it, further than might be expected 
from the state the Commonwealth could give of its ability to comply with the requisi- 
tions of Congress ; that if more was laid upon her than she could bear some other course 
might in time be taken to supply what she would likely fall short, but this could be 
done by a representation of the matter by the Executive to the Delegates as well as in 
any other way." Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 65. 

[6ii]iN. C. Hist. Comm., Samuel Johnston Papers, 1763-1803. The letter is signed 
by Burke, Sharpe, and Johnston, and is endorsed, " Copy of Letter from No. CaroHna 
Delegates to Colo. Laurens at Boston from whence he is soon to set sail for France". 

2 The unfavorable agricultural conditions in North Carolina are set forth with 
some particularity. See nos. 562, 563, ante. 



540 Continental Congress 

612. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

r.- Philadelphia January 18, 1781. 

Your E'xcellency will receive enclosed a Resolve of Congress of the 
17th Instant, requesting the Executive of the State of Maryland to liqui- 
date the Account of Mr Baker Johnston for fifty two Pair of Leather 
Breeches which he purchased for Lt Colo. Lee's Partizan Corps on Ac- 
count of the L'nited States ^ 

613. The Secretary of Congress (Charles Thomson) to the 

Secretary of the Maryland Council 
(Thomas Johnson)/ 

Secretary's Office of Congress 
Sir^ Jany. 20th, 1881. 

Yesterday a letter under your signature, directed to the Secy of the 
Board of Admiralty was put into my hands requesting a supply of Com- 
missions etc. for armed Vessels ; from which it appears that you have not 
yet been made acquainted with the alteration which Congress by their 
act of the 27 July last have been pleased to make as to the mode of issuing 
such commissions in future." 

In a letter which I had the honor of writing to his Excellency the Gov- 
ernor of your State on the 28th July last I enclosed the act of Congress 
above mentioned together with 15 blank Commissions and informed him 
that it was the Intention of Congress that all commissions and instructions 
in force on the 2nd of May last should be cancelled as soon as possible and 
the new ones substituted in place thereof. I have not yet been favor'd with 
an answer to my letter and as you seem to be Ignorant of its contents take 
the liberty of Enclosing a copy thereof, also 40 blank commissions etc. 
for armed Vessels. You will please to return the bonds when executed; 
when more are wanted for your State they shall on the first notice be for- 
warded by 5JJ. yQ^jj. humble servant 

Cha Thomso-n Secy 

614. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech \\^eare).^ 

Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany. 21st, 17S1. 

I did myself the Honor of writing you from Trenton Last week respect- 
ing the Revolt of the Pensylvania Troops and I now take the Liberty of 

[6i2]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 125. 

2 The resolve of Jan. 17 is recorded in the Journals as offered by the board of 
war, except that the words " fifty two Pair of Leather breeches " are erased, and the 
word " cloathing " substituted therefor. The copy of the resolve certified by Secretary 
Thomson, which accompanied the President's letter, has nevertheless the original wording. 

[613P Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VHI. 46; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 49, f. 535- 

2 Johnson's letter, dated Jan. 10, is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIIL 45. 

[6i4]iN. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 52; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXV. 169. 



January, ijSi 541 

Inclosing you Copy of my Letter to the Minister of France which Contain 
a Narrative of the whole affair." I sent This State of Facts to him Lest 
a Rumour of this Mutiny should reach Europe and make some unfavor- 
able Impression respecting America. I knew he would Send a Copy of it 
immediately to France which would be published and prevent any ill 
Effects which might arise from false or Exaggerated Accounts. I submit 
to your Judgment whether altering the First Paragraph and Publishing 
it as a Letter from me to you will not answer a good purpose. I have no 
objection to my name being put to it if you think it will have more weight 
than an Anonymous Letter would be Likely to have, my wish is to have 
the Facts Stated as they really were and this Event will not appear of that 
alarming kind as at first was apprehended. I have been particular in Stat- 
ing facts as they really were and so as Every person must allow them to 
be without any false Coloring 

I wrote you in Several Letters for money. Congress have resolved that 
members shall not Draw from the General Treasury ^ and I must Live by 
borrowing or do worse. I have Drawn Some money from the Continental 
Treasury but can Draw no more. I have used every oeconomy in my 
power and can Truly Say that I never Lived so Sparingly in my Life Yet 
I am ashamed of the nominal Expence. that you may form Some Judg- 
ment I will give you the price of wood which is by far the Cheapest Arti- 
cle I know; this Costs Six hundred and thirty Dollars per Cord. I am 
Convinced that three hard Dollars would in the year 1775 purchase more 
than a Thousand Continental Dollars will now do. 

The Southern Post has this moment arrived but brings no further In- 
telligence from the Southward. 

615. John Sullivan to John Wendell.^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 21 1781, 
Dear Sir, 

I am honored with your favor of the 26 Ulto 

I have but Small hopes of Gaining any Compensation from Congress 
respecting the Losses you mention. 

Capt. Simpsons affair Shall be particularly attended to." I have the 
Same opinion as you have respecting the Confederation and am as much 
Surprized as you can be that the Defects you mention and a number of 
others were not Discovered previous to its passing. I wish it was Con- 
sistent with your Interest to become a member of Congress 

2 No. 602, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 29, 1780. 

{615]! N. H. Hist. Soc. (copy; original in possession of Mrs. Barrett Wendell). 

2 Oct. 17, 1780, a memorial of Captains Abraham Whipple, John Peck Rathburne. 
Samuel Tucker, and Thomas Simpson had been laid before Congress and referred to 
the board of admiralty, and on Feb. 9, 1781, another memorial from the same men was 
laid before Congress and referred to a special committee. No report on either memorial 
appears of record in the Jmirnals, The question was one pertaining to their pay. 



542 Continental Congress 

6i6. James Lovell to Samuel Holten/ 

Jan. 23d, 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

You will have found, on seeing Mr. Gerry that I endeavor to economize. 
I told him that " mr. Dana had a Commission " for Russia, and I referred 
him to my " Scrawl to you " for other Points. Maryland confederates,^ 
Virginia seems to give away Something for the good of the Union and 
recommends to others to do the like.^ I will aim to get the Act long enough 
to find Time to copy it, if Mr. Otis does not leave this City today. The 
Com'tee of April loth, 80 on Depreciation for the Staff was filled up 
Jany. 5th, 81 and the Instructions to the Delegates of Mass: were re- 
ferred.* Money is exceedingly scarce here yet Exchange is from 100 to 
115 old for Silver. Loaf Sugar 2 .?• 6 or 36 dollars pr. lb. I pay 200 for 
Stockings and the same for Shoes. Compulsion is urged as a congressional 
measure by Jersey and Pensylva. but I think we are become too wise. 
Things appear to Mr. J. Adams Oct. 24 to indicate a malignant Continu- 
ance of War on the Part of Britain. 

I should have mentioned that Maryland has limited the Time beyond 
which she will not receive the old money. I wish I could purchase up all 
your new. It will most assuredly be high in Credit soon, tho' it seemed a 
little while ago as if the other States meant not to act in concert upon the 
Plan of the 18 of March. 

We are determined it shall have its Chance of Success ; We, mighty Men, 
totally dependent upon 13 Legislatures different in Views, for Support in 
our smallest Endeavors to carry on the War. Indeed, my dear Sir, we are 
in a Condition as to payment of our Debts that is most tormenting. All 
our Creditors must loan to us, and I suppose most of them would willingly 
do it if they saw their interest certain against the due Day. I wish you wd. 
tell me upon what Resolve it is that our Court have acted in Regard to 
advances to Allen the Indian Agent. I can only find Jany. 8 and May 13 
1777 which my Colleagues say is not what they have supposed to be at all. 
I will continue my Search.^ Mr. Gerry had a memorand'm of the secret 

[eie]"^ Essex hist. Hist. Colls., XIII. 225. 

2 The Maryland act authorizing the delegates of the state to subscribe to the 
Articles of Confederation was passed by the House of Delegates Jan. 30 and by the 
Senate Feb. 2. While it was of course possible that news of the contemplated action 
of the Maryland assembly might have reached Congress a week in advance, it is prob- 
able that the date of this letter is wrong, since there is no other mention of the Mary- 
land decision until the 29th. See nos. 622-629, 633, post. Lovell's remark concerning the 
Virginia cession suggests that he was writing on the 29th, not the 23d, for it was 
on the 29th that Jefferson's letter of Jan. 17 (Official Letters, II. 284) was read in Con- 
gress. The Maryland act was laid before Congress Feb. 12, when Daniel Carroll attended 
as a delegate from that state, but as the act required the signatures of two delegates for 
ratification it was not until the coming of John Hanson, Feb. 22, that this could be 
effected. On that day accordingly Congress set Thursday, Mar. I, as the day for the 
completion of the Confederation (see also the Journals, Feb. 24). 

2 See nos. 623, 629, post. 

4 See Lovell to Holten, Mar. 23, in the next volume. 

^ Lovell is alluding to a letter from the governor of Massachusetts Dec. 22, read 
in Congress Jan. 8. Action was taken on the letter Feb. 15. Concerning John Allan, 
Indian agent, see the Journals, Jan. 14, 15, Apr. 24, 29, May 6, 1777. Besides the resolu- 
tions mentioned by Lovell (Jan. 8 and May 13, I777), cf. the Journals, May 21, 1778, 
Apr. 7, I77Q. 



January, 1781 643 

Resolves of all the years. We have some cold Weather at last, but it is 
more wholesome than the past wet warm Season. I hope you have Health. 
I wish you that and every Happiness. 

Aflfectionately J. L. 

617. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Jany. 23d, 1781.^ 
Dear Sir, 

I have nothing new this week for you but two reports : the first is that 
very great discontents prevail in N. York among the German Troops for 
causes pretty similar to those which produced the eruption in the Pennsyl- 
vania line. It is further said on this head that a party of 200 have deserted 
from Long Island and gone to Rhode Island. The other report is that the 
British Minister either has or proposes to carry a bill into Parliam't 
authorising the Commanding officer in x-Xmerica to permit and promote 
a trade with us in British Goods of every kind except Linens and Woolens. 
This change of system is said to be the advice of some notable refugees, 
with a view to revive an intercourse as far as possible between the two 
Countries, and particularly to check the habit that is taking place in the 
consumption of French Manufactures. Whatever their public views may 
be it is certain that such a plan would open fine prospects to them in a 
private view. 

We have reed, no fresh or certain information of the designs of F. and 
Spain in assembling so great a force at Cadiz. There does not appear to 
be any object in that Quarter except Gibraltar. Should the attempts be 
renewed agst. that place, it will prove that the former has not that abso- 
lute sway in the Cabinet of the latter which has been generally imagined. 
Nothing could have prevailed on the French to recall their fleet from the 
Islands at the time they did but the necessity of humouring Spain on the 
subject of her hobby horse 

[617] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings (ed. Hunt ), I. 125. 

2 Following are extracts from a letter of Ezekiel Cornell, recently a delegate from 
Rhode Island, but since Dec. 2g, 1780, on the board of war as an outside member (see 
no. 566, ante). The letter, dated at Philadelphia, Jan. 23 (copied from the original, then 
in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia), is addressed to Gen. Nathanael 
Greene : 

" Dear S'r, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the recept of your favour of the 29th. 
From the present appearances I think it is probable Dr. McHenry will soon be promoted 
in the Army, if not (as I am out of Congress) General Sullivan hath undertaken to get 
his affair accomplished agreable to your wishes 

" I am now one of the Commissioners of the Board of War, but do not expect to 
remain there long. Congress is about to put the Boards on a new footing, each_ Branch 
to be conducted by a minister who are to be great men. the publick expectations are 
raised high on the Occasion, I hope they may not be disappointed. Whither Congress 
can vest them with powers sufficient is a doubt with me. 

" It appears to me the time is not far distant when a New mode of carrying on the 
War must be adopted, the present one is too expensive unless we had some more regu- 
lar and effectual mode of raising money for publick use 

" Congress are deeply engaged in Finance, Among which Imposts on Imported articles 
comes under consideration. It is proposed to lay a duty of four pr. Cent, how it will 
suit the genius of the several states I will not tmder take to say. I will say no more only 
add one sentiment of my Own which is that the united states as a publick Body are as 
poor as Job. But their Inhabitants are rich, more so then when the war commenced. 
While that is the case it is impossible they can be conquered." 
39 



544 Continental Congress 

6i8. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia January 24, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Letter of 15th Instant x^nd am directed 
to acquaint your Excellency that the Line of Conduct you thought proper 
to adopt on receiving Intelligence of the late Disorders of the non Com- 
missioned Officers and Privates in the Pennsylvania Line, and the Rea- 
sons you have assigned for remaining with the Army stationed at and 
near West Point, meet with the entire Approbation of Congress 

Your Excellency's Sentiments relative to the Subject of removing the 
french Troops are such as might be expected from the Nature and Cir- 
cumstances of the Case and seem to have given universal Satisfaction.^ 

619. The Board of War to the President of Congress. '^ 

War Office Jany. 25th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The board have been honored with a referrence from Congress of the 
Memorial of the Officers of the five Companies of the German Reg't be- 
longing to Pennsylvania, upon which they are directed to take order for 
causing three months pay to be paid to each of the Memorialists. 

They would beg leave to inform Congress that there are now in Phil'a 
a great number of the discharged soldiers from the Pennsylvania Line, 
who have rec'd but one month's pay, and who are so clamorous for more, 
that great part of the time of the board is employed in quieting their com- 
plaints — the Office is scarcely ever clear of them, and yesterday, twenty 
or thirty ]\Ien of the German Reg't invested the doors in rather an hostile 
manner, and could not be satisfied, 'till they were assured that their Officers 
were in no better situation with respect to pay than themselves ; indeed the 
board have more than once experienced the force of this Argument. 

Under these circumstances the board are apprehensive that paying the 
Memorialists will be productive of greater clamour, and more riotous 
conduct in the soldiery, than they have yet exhibited in the City, and they 
have therefore ventured to suspend a compliance with the order of yester- 
day 'till they are informed of the sentiments of Congress, after this repre- 
sentation." 

[618] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 223. 
2 Washington's letter of Jan. 15 was read in Congress Jan. 23, but no action on 
it is recorded. The letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. no, (ed. Sparks), VH. 374. 

[619]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 148, vol. L, f. 295 (signed by 
"Ben Stoddert, Secy."). 

2 Orders, countermands, resolves, and repeals in the case of the German regi- 
ment followed close upon the heels of one another. See the Journals, Jan. 13, 16, 20, 24, 
25. The resolve of Jan. 25, approving the board's suspension of compliance with the 
order of Jan. 24, was transmitted by Richard Peters to General Irvine, Jan. 26, with 
the following note : 

" I send for your private Information Copy of the Resolve just received relative to the 
Matter I spoke to you about." Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers. 



January, lySi 545 

620. The President of Congress to the States from 
Pennsylvania to New Hampshire.^ 

Philadelphia, January 27, 1781. 
Sir, 

Enclosed is a Copy of a Letter from Colonel Blaine, Commissary Gen- 
eral, which I am directed to transmit to the several States from Pennsyl- 
vania to the Eastward." 

By this you will be informed of the critical Situation of the Army re- 
specting Provisions and other Supplies. 

Congress have no other Means on which to place their Dependance at 
present to supply the Army but a Compliance on the Part of the States in 
furnishing their respective Quotas agreeable to former Requisitions for 
that Purpose. 

It is therefore most earnestly requested that they use every possible 
Exertion in procuring the Provisions and Supplies requested of them 
respectively. 

621. Jesse Root to William Williams.^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 29th 1781. 
D'r Sir, 

I refer you to my letter to his Excellency for Sundry matters which I 
shall not repeat in yours. 

Congress have agreed to appoint a Minister of foreign affairs, a Minis- 
ter of finance, and there is a report upon the table for appointing a minis- 
ter of War, and a minister of the Marine, the two latter are to Supersede 
the board of war and of admiralty as the minister of finance is the board 
of Treasury." the new Continental money makes its entrance into the 

[620] 1 Mass. Arch., CCIII. 218; N. J. State Lib.; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 224 ("To the supreme Executives from Pennsylvania to New Hamp- 
shire inclusive") ; Clinton Papers, VL 598; Pa. Arch., first ser., VIIL 719. 

2 Blaine's letter, dated Jan. 19, is in Pa. Arch., first sen, VIIL 705. See the 
Journals, Jan. 27 ; cf. ibid., Jan. 20. 

[621]! Conn. Hist. Soc, William Williams Papers. 

2 See no. 514, note 3, ante, the Journals, Jan. 6, 10, 13, 17, 18, Feb. 6, 7, and nos. 
623, 625, 627, 630, 637, 639, 642, post. A committee to report upon a proper arrange- 
ment of the department of foreign affairs had been appointed May 15, 1780, and had 
made a report June 12, but it was not until Dec. 15 that consideration of the report finds 
record in the Joxinials. See nos. 514, 552, ante. The resolution to create a department 
of foreign affairs, with a secretary for foreign affairs at the head of it, was adopted 
Jan. 10, but it was not until Aug. 10 that a secretary, Robert R. Livingston, was chosen. 
Livingston's acceptance, dated Sept. 17, was read in Congress Oct. i. See also the Jour- 
nals, Jan. 17, Feb. 9, June 13, 1781. 

If Root is correct in his statement that Congress had at this time resolved to appoint 
a minister of finance, such a resolution was not given record in the Jonrnals. The reso- 
lution creating the office of superintendent of finance, as well as those of secretary at 
war and secretary of marine, was adopted Feb. 7 (see also the Journals, Feb. 6) and the 
salaries fixed Feb. 9 (altered Oct. i following). Feb. 20 Robert Morris was chosen 
superintendent of finance, and, after much discussion in Congress over the conditions 
upon which he insisted, accepted May 14 (see the Journals, Mar. 14, 15, 20, 21, 29, 31, 
Apr. 20, 21, 27, May 14, and nos. 623, 661, post). 

Feb. 27 Alexander McDougall was elected secretary of marine. He did not however 
accept, for the reason that Congress declined to agree to certain conditions which he 
stipulated with regard to retaining his rank in the army (see the Journals. Mar. 12, 29, 
30; also the letter of the Virginia delegates, Apr. 17, in the next volume). An effort 
was made July 6 to set a date for the election of a secretary of marine, but failed. It 
was then proposed (July 18) to appoint an agent of marine, and on Aug. 29 that office 



546 Continental Congress 

world under many disadvantages. Massachusetts has Issued theirs i for 40, 
Pensylvania and Jersey have Issued theirs i for 75. the other day an 
apphcation was made to Congress to exchange with the loan officer the 
money of other States for that of Pensylvania as the money of other 
States would not pass in Pensylvania — a Resolve passed accordingly, in 
less than 24 hours we were alarmed that all the money of massachusets 
would be bro't in for Exchange Soon if the resolve was Continued, upon 
which it was rescinded as hastily as it passed.^ in short we know not what 
to do. the new money of the different States is neither equal to Silver nor 
to itself. Maryland has opened an Exchange at the treasury and offers 
one dollar of the new for 40 of the old but the people will not exchange 
at that rate. Newyork have represented to Congress that they have not 
the old Continental in their State to answer their quota, that the Com- 
missary and Quarter Masters Certificates to a very large amount are in 
the hands of their people which must be taken in taxes, that although there 
are quantities of flour etc. in their State to Spare there is not money to 
purchase it. 

is not this a wonderfull paradox — that there is in the States, for its so 
in this State, Such a plenty of money that it is worth nothing — at the same 
time a vast plenty of provisions and goods and yet no money to purchase 
them — and the people Complaining they Cant pay their rates, these things 
Cannot Stand togather, too much money Certainly there is here in Cir- 
culation, and thats the source of the mischeff. Call that into the Treasury, 
and enable the public to pay their debts and the people Can then pay their 
rates, besides it would force people to bring what they had to market to 
get money to pay their taxes — in short it would make the money valuable 
and the prices reasonable and of Consequence more plenty for the plen- 
teousness of money does not depend on the nominal amount in Circulation 
but on the real amount in value and the proportion it bears to other things, 
pardon this hasty Scroll and accept my respectfull Compliments to you 
and your lady and believe me to be, with much respect 

Your most obedt. humble Servt. 

Jesse Root 

622. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull). '^ 

Philadelphl\, Jany. 29th, 1781. 
Please your Excellency, 

Virginia has ceded to the United States a large territory of country 
lying northwest of the Ohio, extracts of which I enclose to you. Mary- 
was created. On Sept. 7, however, the duties of the agent of marine were vested in the 
superintendent of finance, chiefly because of the diminution of marine business. 

Feb. 28 the election of a secretary at war was postponed until Oct. i, but, while action 
was taken respecting the office on the day set, there was no election of a secretary until 
Oct. 30, when the choice fell upon Gen. Benjamin Lincoln. Nov. 26 Lincoln signified 
his acceptance. 

The subject is treated at large by J. C. Guggenheimer, "The Development of the 
Executive Departments ", in J. F. Jameson, Essays in the Constitutional History of the 
United States. 

3 See the erased resolve in the Journals, Jan. 22. 

[622]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, IIL 190. 



January, lySi 547 

land, we are very credibly informed, has acceded to the confederation, 
tho no official accounts have yet arrived." 

every day's experience convinces us of the miseries that flow from want 
of system in government, of proper arrangement in our finances, and in 
almost every department, and of that ruinous policy which influenced 
Congress to divide out to the different States the prosecution of the war. 
The new money, so far as it is issued, has been issued by the States at 
different values. Some at i for 40, by others equal to silver, and passes 
under all the disadvantages of State emissions, one State refusing to take 
the bills of another, and the bills of Pensylvania which were issued equal 
to silver, and have a tendry law to support them armed with dreadful! 
punishments, suffer a discount of 25 pr. cent. I wish we may grow wise 
by the things we experience; natural laws uniformly produce the same 
effects and to follow where reason and nature points is the perfection of 
humane policy. The greatest difficulties we have to encounter arise from 
measures, from having governed too much in particular matters, more 
than from any other cause, for many particular regulations have certainly 
increased the difficulties they were designed to prevent. Sir, my ideas of 
this business differ from most people. I consider the aggregate wealth 
of the individuals as the wealth of the nation, and would give full scope 
to their wishes and exertions to acquire wealth in a lawfull way, cautiously 
guarding against any illicit trade with the enemy, and would fix certain 
modes of calling into public use so much money as they were able to pay 
and the public wants required ; this would be the best way of establishing 
funds, and as the resources of our country would be almost inexhaustable 
under the smiles of heaven, if properly encouraged and cultivated in this 
way, I think we should soon become formidable not only to our enemies 
but to all the world. Congress are about to recommend to the States to 
lay duties to the amount of four pr. cent on all articles of foreign growth 
and manufacture imported into these States for the purpose of a revenue. 
Although I like the thing I dislike the mode. I think that Congress alone 
can regulate the trade and with success can lay duties on imports for the 
purpose of raising a revenue, and I think they ought to be invested with 
powers for this purpose, and the States might grant to them the avails 
for any limmitted term of time, or for a particular purpose, as they should 
judge proper.^ .... Your Excellency will pardon the free manner in 
which I write, as it is in confidence, and proceeds from an anxious mind, 



2 See no. 616, ante, and nos. 623-629, 633, post. For the interrelation of these 
two facts see H. B. Adams, Maryland's Influence upon Land Cessions to the United 
States, pp. 22-38. For an account of the proceedings in Maryland see E. S. Delaplaine, 
Life of Thomas Johnson, pp. 361 ct scq. 

3 See nos. 608, 617, note 2, ante, and nos. 626, 628, 633, 6z(>, 638, 641, 642, post. 



548 Continental Congress 

623. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Jany 29, 1781. 
Dear General, 

.... I know it is a Trying time with the Americans in General but 
above all I Lament The Tryals you are compelled to go Through. But 
I am Convinced we Shall Soon be in better Circumstances, our Political 
Disorder has in my opinion Come to a Crisis and the next Campaign we 
Shall See the Republick rising into Action with new vigor we are now 
making Some Arrangements which Evidence the Recovery of our Rea- 
son. A Minister of Foreign Affairs, one of Finance, a Minister of War 
and of Marine are to be appointed.^ Maryland has Acceeded to the Asso- 
ciation. Virginia has granted Congress all the Lands west of the Ohio ^ 
our Plan of Finance is Nearly Through we mean to try for a Loan of 
Coined Specie and Plate from Individuals in which I Doubt not we Shall 
Succeed as we Mean to Convince them that they will be repaid in Specie 
by this Means we Intend Establishing a Bank to Support Paper for though 
paper Bills may well Enough Represent Silver and Gold That really does 
Exist yet when they are used as a Circulating Medium to represent Silver 
and Gold which does not Exist and probably never may this medium is but 
the Shadow of a Shade.* If the Loan, can be obtained and Colo. Laurens 
Should be Successful in France I am Convinced we Shall be in a very 
respectable Situation next year and Even if he is unsuccessful, in a much 
better than we have been for years Past. I promise myself much from 
our Present and past Distresses. I find that Congress and assemblies be- 
gin to Rouse from their Slumber and Individuals are now alarmed for 
the Publick Safety who have for years past been Employed in amassing 
wealth. America has undoubtedly abundant Resources but we Seem to 
have had neither Efficient Powers or skill to call them forth. I wish Your 
Excellency would be so oblidging (when you have Liesure to favor me 
with another Letter) as to give me Yr. opinion with respect to Colo. Ham- 
ilton as a Financier. 

Your Excellencys Letter with a Flying Seal was Delivered to the Presi- 
dent and immediately read in Congress and I think you may rest assured 
that Every Exertion will be made to prevent Similar Disturbances.^ I am 
happy to find that amidst all the Disorders in the Pensylvania Line they 
gave Such undeniable Evidence of their attachment to the Cause of their 
Country even if it answered no other purpose but those of preventing 
unfavorable Impressions in Europe. I have the Honor to be very respect- 
fully 

Dear General Your Excellencys most obedient Servant 

Jno. Sullivan 

[623]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 621, note 2, ante. 

2 See no. 616, note 2, a)ite. 

■* See nos. 625, note 3, 626, post; also the Joxirnals, passim (index, "Finance"). 
Washington's reply to this letter, Feb. 4, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 131, (ed. 
Sparks), VII. 399. 

5 Washington's letter of Jan. 23, read in Congress Jan. 29. See no. 625, note 4. 
post. 



January, i'/8i 549 

624. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Jany. 29th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I find that the State of Maryland has acceded to the association and 
when this comes officially to Congress New Hampshire can be no longer 
represented by one member. Virginia has given to Congress sixty million 
Acres of land on the west side of Ohio River. ^ .... 

The plan of finance as also the determination of the afifair of Mr. 
Delatour ^ have been delayed for many reasons one of which was my being 
sent to quiet the disturbances in the Pensylvania line. I hope they both 
will be compleated in a short time. 

625. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, 29th Jan'ry, 1781. 
Sir, 

The State of Mary Land have acceeded to the Confederation, reserving 
to herself a Common Right on the Wild Lands. Virginia have ceded to 
the United States all their Claims west of the Ohio, including nearly sixty 
millions of Acres.' These Events will doubtless soon introduce the Prin- 
ciples of the Confederation in their fullest Extent; should that be the Case 
no State can be represented in Congress by one Member only, wch. will 
make it expedient for the State of Rhode Island to find another Delegate, 
or reinvest Genl. Cornell with their authority to take a Seat.^ To prevent 

[624]! N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, IX. 60. 

2 See no. 616, note 2, ante. 

3 See nos. 539, 559, ante, no. 635, post, and the Journals, Feb. 5. 

[625]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 21; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 325. 

2 See nos. 616, note 2, 622, ante. 

3 See no. 617, note 2, ante. Cornell himself wrote to Governor Greene the same 
day : 

" Congress have for some time past been busily imployed in a Committee of the whole 
on the affairs of our Finance. The subject of duty on Imported Articles have hither 
to ingrosed their chiefest attention. It is reported they are generally agreed to recom- 
mend to the several states that they pass Laws laying a duty of four pr. ct. on Imported 
Articles some few Excepted. 

" Reducing the Commissioners at the several Boards to a Single Member each is much 
talked of in Congress. I believe it will take place. I hope it will be for the better, 
they are to be great Ministers of State, and ought to be men of the first abilities in the 
Nation, as much is expected from them. 

" Congress have resolved to appoint a Minister to reside near where Congress shall 
sit, to conduct their foreign affairs, he is to have a Salary of four thousand specie dol- 
lars per annum exclusive of Office rent etc. Robert R. Livingston and Arthur Lee are 
in nomination both have their admirers, but I am not certain either of them hath suf- 
ficient in Congress to be appointed. 

" A Resolution hath passed the Assembly in Maryland by a Majority of thirty-three 
to seven, Impowering their delegates to Confederate. It had not passed the senate, but 
it is supposed it will without much difficulty. 

" Virginia hath passed a Law Ceding all her teritorial claim beyond the Ohio to the 
thirteen states, Upon conditions the whole shall agree to and sign the Confederation, and 
allot the Ceded Lands into Governments of a Moderate size." R. I. Arch., Letters to 
the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 22; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 326. 



550 Continental Congress 

Misfortune, I shall take the Liberty of inviting him to join me, should it 
become absolutely necessary, till the Orders of the State shall arrive. The 
differences in the Pennsylvania Line are settled. Another Mutiny has 
taken Place in the Jersey Line, but has been quelled. The particulars I am 
not fully ascertained of.* .... Congress is very incessant upon the most 
important Objects, wch. If fully adopted and firmly executed, I hope will 
re-establish public Credit and give Consistency and Vigor to our future 
Operations 

626. John Mathews to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. 29, 1781. 
Sir, 

Congress have been for the last ten days seriously and industriously 
engaged in ways and means for establishing a permanent fund on which 
they might be enabled to build a future credit. It seems past contracts is 
here a secondary consideration. Perhaps you may say a previous and 
equitable adjustment of this point would have been as substantial a foun- 
dation on which to build a credit as any that could have been devised. 
This problem I leave for wiser heads than mine to solve. However after 
the most mature consideration Congress have agreed to call on the states 
to grant to the United States a duty of four per cent, to commence on the 
first day of May next, on all foreign commodities imported into the states, 
to be estimated on the vendible price within the states respectively ; also a 
like duty on the sale of all prize goods, and one eighth of a dollar per ton 
on all shipping from foreign ports. This impost to continue until the debts 
already contracted or that may be hereafter contracted by the United 
States, shall be finally discharged. Thus far we have proceeded, but alas ! 
what does all this amount to ? It is computed to produce about 6 or 700,- 
000 dollars specie per annum, when the interest alone of the debt already 
contracted amounts to two millions of dollars annually. Thus you will 
see, Sir a great deal remains to be done.' .... 

In a letter lately received by Congress from Mr. Dumas (a private 
agent employed by them in Holland) he says, the British Minister at the 

4 See no. 623, ante. Washington wrote Jan. 21 to General Sullivan " 6r to a 
Committee of Congress " and Jan. 2.3 to the President of Congress respecting the mutiny 
of the New Jersey line. The letter of Jan. 23 was read in Congress Jan. 29, the day 
on which Varnum's letter was written. See also Washington to Gen. Robert Howe 
Jan. 22, and a circular letter of the same date to the states of New Hampshire, Massa- 
chusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and New York (JVritings, ed. Sparks, VH. 380, 
381). Letters from Colonels Shreeve (Jan. 20) and Dayton (Jan. 24) and General 
Howe (Jan. 27) concerning the episode, together with the general orders to the army 
Jan. 30, are ibid., pp. 560-566. A letter from Washington to Congress Jan. 31 (read 
Feb. 5) announced the suppression of the revolt. 

[626]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49> vol. HL, j). 216. 

2 Concerning the committee to arrange the finances, etc., appointed Nov. 7, see 
nos. 514, note 6, 623-625, ante. The report is in the Journals. Dec. 18, but with the 
exception of some discussion Dec. 22, it was not actively considered on the floor of 
Congress until Jan. 18. From that time until Feb. 3 it was under almost daily discus- 
sion (see the further action Feb. 7), The rate of duty, first recommended at four per 
cent., was afterward changed to five. See the report of the committee of the whole 
Jan. I. See also nos. 529, 623-625, ante, and nos. 627, 628. 633, post. 



January, 1/81 551 

court of Petersburgh has offered on the part of his master to accede to the 
Northern Convention, provided the United Provinces were excluded. 
This has alarmed their High Mightinesses not a little, and I fancy will 
produce an immediate recession in their demands of a guarantee of their 
East Indie possessions. 

Be pleased to make my compliments of [sic~\ Mrs Livingston, and the 
young ladies. 

I have the honor to be with the highest respect and regard 

Your Excellency's most obedient Servant 

Jno. Matthews. 

P. S. Maryland has a[t] lenghth agreed to confederate. This may be 
relied on. 

627. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 29th January, 1781. 
My dear General, 

I had the Honour of writing to you last by our Friend the Marquiss 
de lafayette intending before this to have followed it by some Information 
on the Subject of cloathing for the army. I have taken pains to investi- 
gate it fully and you have the best Right to the fruits of my Enquiry: 
It does not appear that there has been any Inattention in the Body of Con- 
gress to this essential Article : that there have been faults and probably 
frauds in the Execution of their orders is too Justly to be apprehended : 
but the principal disappointment is to be ascribed to a series of real mis- 
fortunes. I have not time to enter into a detail of Facts. If the publick 
business sho'd permit I still propose to undertake the Task; if not it shall 
be reserved for a personal Interview. It will not, I flatter myself, be long 
before I enjoy that Satisfaction. There are some political Regulations of 
great Importance which I have exceedingly at heart and which are now 
drawn near to a Conclusion. My Anxiety to see them finished delays my 
Journey which General McDougald's presence here renders practicable. 
The principal Measures to which I allude are the Establishment of Execu- 
tives or Ministers in the departments of Finance, Wrt, the Marine and 
foreign affairs, the accomplishment of the Confederation : the procuring 
to Congress an augmentation of power and permanent Revenues for 
carrying on the War." 

The day is at length arrived when dangers and distresses have opened 
the Eyes of the People and they perceive the Want of a common head to 
draw forth in some Just proportion the Resources of the several Branches 
of the federal Union. They perceive that the deliberate power exercised 
by States individually over the Acts of Congress must terminate in the 
common Ruin: and the Legislature, however reluctantly, must resign a 
portion of their Authority to the national Representative, or cease to be 
Legislatures. 



-fc>' 



[627]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Bancroft, History of the Forma- 
tion of the Constitution, I. 283 (extracts). 
2 See no. 626, note 2, ante. 



552 Continental Congress 

The sufferings and the discontents of the Army, in the mean time, gives 
us infinite disquiet. Woud to God it was in our power to provide an in- 
stant and adequate Remedy ! but this as your Excellency will observe by 
our late address must depend on the Exertions of the States. The Insur- 
rection of the Pensylvania line, however deeply to be regretted, was ac- 
companied by Circumstances which afford some Consolation. The Enemy 
at New York on receiving the Information were elated beyond all bounds, 
and gave way to the most extravagant Expectations : but when they learned 
that the Spies were executed, they were sunk into dejection; and sullen 
silence succeeded their short lived Triumph! This Information we have 
by a young man who left that City a week ago. It was with singular 
pleasure that we observed your Excellency's Resolution to remain at West 
Point which entirely corresponded with the opinion and the wishes of 
Congress. The weighty reasons which inclined you to that determination 
were presupposed : but the hazarding your Authority among a Soldiery 
who had suffered real grievances, and were enflamed by Incendiaries, woud 
alone have been decisive at least untill every other means had proved 
ineffectual. 

You will be pleased to hear that our worthy friend Mr. Jones of Vir- 
ginia has resumed his Seat in Congress. That State has relinquished for 
the common benefit all her Claim to the Westward of the Ohio ; and Mary- 
land has acceded to the Confederation: At least I have read the Act or 
Resolution of their House of Delegates to that purpose only seven Mem- 
bers being in the Negative; and Mr. Jones was assured from good Au- 
thority that the Senate had concurred.^ These are Events of infinite Im- 
portance and will put a new Face on our Affairs at Home but much more 
so abroad ; They will refute the Misrepresentations of our Enemies, and 
convince our Friends of our perseverance and fixed Resolution to main- 
tain our Liberties at every Hazard. The large Cessions of Territory for 
the use of the Federal Union which will be yielded by the respective States 
must with wise management lay a foundation for reestablishing publick 
Credit. This subject, as it ought, employs our unremitted Attention, and 
it is become practicable to introduce System and Oeconomy since the na- 
tional debt and the Expenditures of the War can be viewed on a specie 
Scale. The fluctuation of our paper money beggard all calculation — de- 
feated all Estimate. I have endeavoured to make myself Master of this 
intricate Business. We can now form a Judgement of what we owe, and 
what we want, and it is my opinion that if we can draw from the States 
a solid and permanent Fund which will produce 2,000,000 specie dollars 
annually to be appropriated to the payment of Interest on the debts we owe 
and ten millions of Dollars which we propose to borrow : If the States 
will contribute in equitable proportions their internal Resources ; and 
there is Oeconomy in the Expenditures : We may hope with the aids 
granted by our Ally, and expected from Spain and Holland, to carry on 
the war more effectually: But before these measures can operate such is 
the emergency of our Affairs that on a punctual Compliance with the 

3 See no. 616, note 2, ante, and nos. 628, 629, 633, post. 



January, ifSi 653 

Requisitions from the States the very Existence of the Army depends; 
and we feel with the utmost Concern the distresses which their backward- 
ness occasions. 

But let us quit this painful Topic and devote this day to Joy and Con- 
gratulation since by the accomplishment of our federal Union we are 
become a Nation. In a political view it is of more real Importance than a 
Victory over all our Enemies. We shall not fail of taking advantage of 
the favorable Temper of the States and recommending for ratification 
such additional Articles as will give vigour and authority to Govern- 
ment.* .... 

Be pleased to present my most respectful Compliments to Mrs. Wash- 
ington and the Gentlemen of the Family; and to believe that your Glory 
and your Happiness are among the Objects nearest to my Heart ; for I am 
with the warmest Affection Esteem and Attachment 

My dear General 

Your Excellency's most Obedient and most humble Servant 

Jas. Duane 

P. S 

628, John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. 30th, 1781. 
My dear sir, 

As the intelligence received yesterday may not be conveyed to you 
through any other channel at this time; and being well assured it will 
afford you much satisfaction to be informed of it; I have therefore taken 
the liberty of communicating it to you. Tho the information does not 
come officially from the state, yet it comes in such a manner that it is to 
be depended on — That Maryland has at last agreed to Confederate. We 
have the resolves as they passed the lower house, which have since passed 
the upper house.^ This is a most important circumstance and comes very 

seasonably to our relief ; for C have been disputing for a long time 

past, what powers were necessary to enable them to prosecute the business 
intrusted to them, and were at this moment, as far from agreeing about it, 
as when we began. I hope now we have some certain principles to act 
upon, we shall be steady and decisive. Tho' the powers of the confedera- 
tion are very inadequate to a vigorous prosecution of the present war, yet 

■* Cj. no. 669, post. 
[628] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 218. 

2 The Maryland act is in the Journals, under Feb. 12. The date of its passage 
in the lower house appears there as Jan. 30, the concurrence by the senate as Feb. 2. 
Cf. no. 616 (note 2), ante, and nos. 629, 633, 639, post. In Henkels, Catalogue, no. 969, 
item 87, is the following extract from a letter of William Floyd to an undesignated 
correspondent : 

" It is with great pleasure I can inform you that the State of Virginia has Ceded to 
Congress for the use of the United States all those Claims to that Tract of Country to 
the westward of the River Ohio, And that the Legislature of Maryland has Agreed to 
Ratifie the Confederation, this we Consider as a most Capitol Event in favour of this 
Country and have Every Reason to Expect that many Good Consequences will Result 
from it." 



654 Continental Congress 

we must endeavour to make the most of them we can, and it is better to 
have some authority to regulate us, than, (as for some time past has been 
the case, ) to have none. 

Virginia has agreed to a cession of their back lands, with some reser- 
vations.^ This is also a very important matter, our present circumstances 
considered. I flatter myself it will give us some credit, which we stand 
much in need of, and may possibly give a spring to our affairs. 

Congress have been seriously engaged for the last ten days in a com- 
mittee of the whole, considering of ways and means for defraying the 
expenses of the present year. They have agreed to call upon the states for 
a duty of four per Ct. on all goods imported, the like duty on all prize 
goods, and one eighth of a dollar per ton on all foreign shipping. This it 
is computed will produce about 6 or 700,000 specie dollars. This is but a 
trifle when compared with our wants, but however we are going on.^ 

629. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philada. Jany. 30th, 1781. 
Sir, 

We were honored yesterday with your Excellency's favor of the 15th 
inst: inclosing Mr. Anderson's explanation of his letter to Capt. Trott, 
and that of the i8th enclosing instructions as to the Mississippi request- 
ing sundry military supplies, in promoting which no exertions shall be 
omitted on our part. Your Excellency's letter to Congress on the subject 
of the Convention Prisoners and the unequal apportionment of the gen- 
eral resources with respect to the two great Departments was also re- 
ceived yesterday and referred to a Committee.^ The Resolutions of the 
General Assembly ceding the Territory N. West of the Ohio to the United 
States was laid before Congress at the same time. Although nothing has 
been yet done declaratory of their sense of them and although they are 
not precisely conformable to the recommendation of Congress on the sub- 
ject, we flatter ourselves that the liberal Spirit which dictated them will 
be approved and that the public will not be disappointed of the advan- 
tages expected from the measure.^ We have pretty good though unau- 

^ See no. 629, post. 

* See nos. 622-627, ante, and nos. 633. 638, 641. 642, post. 
[629]! Libran' of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., Misc. (signed by Jones, Madison, and 
Bland) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, I. 475- 

2 Jefferson's letter respecting Mr. Anderson and Captain Trott (see no. 541. 
ante) is in Official Letters, II. 276; Writings (ed. Ford), II. 420. That to Con- 
gress respecting the Convention prisoners, also dated Jan. 15, is ibid., p. 413 (see also 
ibid., pp. 391, 415). It was read in Congress Jan. 29. That of the i8th, transmitting the 
instructions of the assembly with regard to the navigation of the Mississippi, as well as 
requesting sundry military supplies, is ibid., p. 424. The letters are also in Official 
Letters, II. 276, 278, 285. 

The Virginia instructions, which authorized the delegates to waive the right of navi- 
gation of the Mississippi in the event that the interests of the United States demanded 
it, were adopted in response to a letter from the delegates Dec. 13. 1780. See nos. 521, 
522, 533, 543, 548, ante, and no. 661, post; also the Journals, Feb. 15 (the motion of the 
Virginia delegates, presented Feb. i and postponed). Mar. 24, May 28, Aug. 11. 

» See nos. 422, 430, 443, 477, 486, 519, 521, 616, 623, 624, 628, ante. The resolutions 
of the Virginia assembly Jan. 2, 1781, ceding the territory northwest of the river Ohio 
on condition that the states should have ratified the Confederation, were enclosed in a 



January, lySi 555 

thenticated information that Maryland has already acceded to the federal 
Union.* 

Since the extinguishment of the Mutiny in the Pennsylvania line, some 
commotions founded on similar complaints have taken place in that of 
New Jersey. But we have the pleasure to inform you that the prudent and 
seasonable remedies applied have re-established order and discipline among 
the troops. 

630. Thomas Burke to William Bingham/ 

Philada. January 30th 1781. 
D V Sir, 

I shall not fail to make the Enquiries Necessary for enabling me to 
answer the Question you ask me relative to the Minister for foreign Af- 
fairs, nor to communicate the result to you as soon as my own mind shall 
be satisfied As in my Judgement you are the most proper person I can 
think of for that department, you may rely on my best endeavours to im- 
press on other Gentlemen Sentiments Similar to my own.' Your Conduct 
in the departments you have hitherto filled gives every reason for relying 
on you in future, and has proved your abilities to be equal to the most 
arduous and delicate affairs. If you are appointed to this new office I shall 
consider it an acquision \_sic^ to the public Service and believe me. Sir, 
it will give me much pleasure, Since at the same time that the public will be 
well served my private feelings \\\\\ be gratified. 

I am with sincere regard and Esteem 

your very obt. Servt. 

Thos. Burke 



letter to the President of Congress Jan. 17 {Writings, ed. Ford, II. 423; Official Let- 
ters, II. 284), read in Congress Jan. 29. The Virginia cession, together with similar acts 
of New York and Connecticut, were referred Jan. 31 to a committee, to whom were also 
referred (Mar. 12, May 25, June 26) some memorials of the land companies. The com- 
mittee brought in a report June 26, and a day was set for its consideration, but there 
is no record of any action until July 24, when, upon the appearance of another memorial 
(from William Trent, representing the Indiana Land Company; see also the Jourtials, 
July 23), a date was again set for the consideration of the cession. Nevertheless the 
matter does not appear to have been taken up until Oct. 2. See, further, Bland's letter 
of Mar. 5, 1781, and that of the Virginia delegates, Oct. 9, in the next volume; also 
Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams, Feb. 5 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 213). 

* Cf. nos. 616, 622-628, ante, 633, post. 
[630]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 621, note 2, ante. On Jan. 17 the election of a secretary for foreign 
affairs was set for Monday, Jan. 22, and Robert R. Livingston and Arthur Lee put in 
nomination for the office. The election did not however take place on the day appointed. 
Feb. 7 Richard Law was placed in nomination, and Feb. 9 the election was set for 
Monday, Feb. 12, but if the question was brought up at all the Journals make no 
mention of it. In a letter to Bingham a few days later (see no. 637, post) Burke explains 
why he was not nominated. See, further, nos. 636, note 2, 639, 661, post. 



556 Continental Congress 

631. The President of Congress to the Quartermaster-General 

(Timothy Pickering)/ 

Philada. February 2, 1781. 
Sir, 

You will receive enclosed, a Resolve of Congress of the 25th Ulto, by 
which you are directed to procure a sufficient Number of Horses to re- 
mount such of the Cavalry as are destitute of Horses, agreable to Direc- 
tions to be given by the Commander in Chief, for the next Campaign, 
and Colonel Armand's Legion is to be furnished with its Proportion out 
of the Number so procured. 

This Resolve would have been forwarded at an earlier Day, but hath 
been delayed on Account of a Motion before Congress proposing an Al- 
teration which finally did not take Effect.^ 

632. James Duane to the Lieutenant Governor of New York and 

THE Speaker of the Assembly.^ 

Philad. 3d February 1781. 
Honorable Gentlemen, 

We are duly honourd with your dispatches by Barclay and they are now 
under Commitment. There is no difficulty of convincing Congress of the 
distresses of our State and if it is in their power you may depend upon 
Relief. The want of money is the only impediment but that is a want 
which presses us hard from every Quarter. The Committee have not yet 
made their Report tho' they have had several meetings ; As soon as Con- 
gress come to a determination it shall be forwarded. In the mean time is 
it not possible to obtain an Account of the money due to our State on 
Commiss. and Quarter Master's Certificates ? Our Exertions and Suffer- 
ings coud in that Case be stated in detail : at present unable even to con- 
jecture the Amount, we are under great and evident disadvantages. We 
shall soon have the Honour of discussing this Subject and of stating the 
publick Affairs more particularly waiting the Event of your Representa- 
tion to Congress.^ .... 

With all possible Respect and Attachment I have the Honour to be 
Honorable Gentlemen 

Your most Obedient and very humble Servant 

Jas. Duane 

Honorable Piere Van Cortlandt Esqr. Lieut. Governour and 
Honorable Evert Bancker Esqr. Speaker of the Assembly 

[631]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 228. 

2 The resolve referred to was adopted Jan. 23, not 25 as here stated. On the 
same day Congress approved a proposition of Armand that he go to France for the pur- 
pose of procuring equipment for his legion, and a further letter from Armand Jan. 24 
brought some phases of the matter again under consideration. This no doubt accounts 
for the delay and the consequent probability of an alteration as mentioned by President 
Huntington. See the Jotirnals, Jan. 23, 24, 25, 30, Feb. 6. 

[632] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Legislative Papers, no. 598. 

2 See the Jotirnals, Jan. 29, Feb. 14, 28. Mar. 2. 3. 6, 7, 9;//- no. 639. post. The 
letter from the lieutenant governor and speaker, dated Jan. 17, is in Clinton Papers, VL 
580. 



February, lySi 557 

633. Thomas ]\IcKean to the Speaker of the Delaware Council 

(Thomas Collins).^ 

Sir, 

The General Assembly of Maryland have at length acceded to the Con- 
federation and Perpetual Union of the United States of America; and 
the Delegates of that State, which has been unrepresented in Congress for 
months, are expected here every day with ample powers to compleat this 
business. \^irginia has ceded to the United States all their pretensions to 
the lands on the West side of the Ohio : Cessions of the like kind have 
been made by New-York and Connecticut, and are expected from other 
States." 

On this occasion a new Aera will commence, and it is now become neces- 
sary that Delaware should have two Delegates at least in Congress, other- 
wise after the arrival of the Maryland Delegates it will have no voice 
there ; and there never was a period when a Representation was more 
essential to it ^ from that time, by the 8th Article, all the expences of the 
war and for the general welfare are to be supplied by the several States in 
proportion to the value of the improved, granted or surveyed lands within 
each, which value is to be estimated and fixed by the United States in 
Congress assembled 

Congress have agreed to make a requisition of the several States to 
grant them a duty not exceeding five per Centum from the first of May 
next on all imports Prizes and Prize goods ad valorem at the time and 
place of Importation, which they are to levy and collect in such manner 
as by experience from time to time shall be found most beneficial, or tend 
least to the discouragement of trade.^ This resembles the poundage-duty 
in England, France, Spain, Holland etc. but will be vastly short of the 
like duties imposed in any of those Countries. Any additional duties on 
Imports, as well as all duties on exports must be referred to the respective 
States. The credit which Congress may derive from this Grant, having 
the exclusive collection and appropriation of it, and also from the Confed- 
eration being compleated, added to the lands ceded to them, it is to be 
hoped will in a great degree retrieve the character of and give new confi- 
dence and importance [to] the United States. You may expect to receive 
this requisition in form in a few days. This Letter, I know, will of course 
be communicated to the hono'ble House of Assembly; and therefore I 
shall not write a Duplicate to them. 

Philadelphia, Feb'ry 3d 1781. 

[633]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 41 (draft). 

2 See nos. 616, 622-629, anie, and nos. 636, note 2, 639, 6i;i, 643. note 2, post. 

3 C/. no. 648, note 4, post. Van Dyke wrote McKean Feb. 14 that he did not 
expect to attend Congress before March (Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 43)- 

4 See the Jmmtals, Feb. 3, 7, Mar. 16, 22; also nos. 626-628, ante, 636, 638, 641, 
642, post. 



558 Continental Congress 

634. James Lovell to Timothy Pickering/ 

Philada. Feb. 5th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favor of Janry. 31st reached me this Morning. I shall see Col. 
Miles, and will deliver to him what Journals he has not already reed, for 
your own Use. I will also endeavour to fulfil yr. Wish in regard to 
Col. Hughes, remarking, however, that the weekly Publications of 1779 
are broken to Peices by the Spirit of those Times, some Members send- 
ing away Dozens of one Week while they cared not what became of the 
next. 

Particular Classes are marked out by Congress to the Secretary, to 
whom he is to transmit the Journals. I do not think he can thereby send 
them to yr. Deputies : but I will endeavor to accommodate the matter. 

I am particularly touched where you say you found at Hd. Quarters 
that the General had been not a little agitated with the Paragraph of my 
Letter published by Rivington in which I speak of Genl. W. You add 
" He mentioned Col. Lauren's Explanation of it as given by you, but, 
thought it seemed far-fetched " ^ 

[634]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVIII. 72- 

2 C/. no. 586, ante. Lovell's intercepted letter, Nov. 20, 1780, is no. 518, ante. 
Following is Gerry's explanatory letter to Washington there referred to. The text has 
been courteously furnished by Hon. E. A. Armstrong of Newark, N. J. The letter, 
which is entirely in Gerry's writing, is endorsed, " Copy of a Letter to G Washington on 
Mr. Lovell's intercepted Letter Feby. 7 1781 ". 

" Dear Sir, 

" Having lately seen an intercepted Letter of the 20th of Novr. last, written by 
Mr Lovell, and published in Rivington's Gazette, I wish to be indulged in making a few 
observations on the Subject. 

"When General Knox was here, he informed me, that the paragraph, of the Letter 
which respected a person's being " Popular ", was supposed by some to refer to your 
Excellency: but the Date of the Letter from whence Mr Lovells quotation was made, 
being a few days after the general Election of the Commonwealth, must, I think con- 
vince every attentive Reader, that the paragraph related to a civil officer who was then 
elected. This will more fully appear to every person acquainted with the Circumstances 
of the Election itself, the popularity of the officer mentioned, and the preference I 
publickly gave to his Competitor. If however I could conceive, that your Excellency 
viewed the paragraph in the Light first mentioned, I would desire Mr Lovell, as I have 
not a Copy of the Letter, to send you the original : but should be exceedingly mortified 
to find, that any Transaction of mine had produced in your Excellency's Mind a Doubt 
of my Friendship towards you 

" Mr Lovell promised in a former Letter, to send me a curious Motion made by a 
Gentleman lately from the Army, whom I then supposed to be G Sullivan ; but no men- 
tion was made of the purport of the Motion, or that it respected your Excellency. 

" The Paragraph in Mr Lovell's Letter subsequent to the Motion, is so enigmatical, 
that I have no Idea of his Intention, whether favorable or not. indeed, I have no 
Reason to suppose the latter from his former Conduct, which has ever appeared to me 
both friendly and respectful to your Excellency ; but admitting that he has otherwise 
expressed himself in the intercepted Letter, surely the Direction of it to a person unac- 
quainted with the Contents should not infer a Suspicion of his Want of Friendship to 
your Excellency. And here a question may arise, whether it is inconsistent with Friend- 
ship to receive a confidential Letter containing Strictures on the Conduct of a Friend? 
the person in this Case who receives the Letter is in a delicate Situation, for by reject- 
ing the Letter, he looses one friend, and by receiving it may disaflfect the other, is it 
not the most eligible Mode of Conduct, under such unfortunate Circumstances, to hear 
confidentially what one Friend has to say against another, and to endeavour to cure the 
Animosity by a candid Consideration and State of the Facts? I must confess this has 



February, lySi 559 

Can such a Temper as mine prevaricate? I am perhaps too Httle dis- 
posed to a near fetched Explanation where Offence is imjustly or Hghtly 
taken against Me. 

I cannot give you the Print, but you will believe I give an honest Copy 
as herein inclosed. 

Present my aft'ectionate Compliments to your Family as your and their 
Friend 

James Lovell 

635. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Mesh EC H Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 5th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I am honored with your favor of the 20th of Jany. with Governor 
Wentworth's Commission Inclosed I find you Send it without requisi- 
tion at which I am much Surprized as repeated requisitions ought to have 
reached you months Since for I wrote you repeatedly on the Subject but 
my Letters (it seems) did not Come to hand. I am rejoiced to hear that 
you have Chosen two other Delegates and beg you will notify them both 
to Come on as I wish to be relieved immediately. 

You know with how much reluctance I accepted the office you Entrusted 
me with. I assigned many reasons; I had many more which I did not 
think proper to Communicate at that time. 

I find your People have been amused by a Colo. Olcutt " to whom I paid 
very Little attention when here as I found, by a Secret Channel, he was 
much in favor of New York ; and you may rely on his being Deeply in 
their Interest; but this time will Discover. I find that I am or have been 
Charged in your House of assembly, with not getting a Decisive answer 
respecting Vermont; that I said I was Sorry to Differ in opinion from 
those who Instructed me ; and that I had much rather it Should be a Sepa- 
rate State than not; and that I had taken a grant of Land from Vermont 
as a Bribe, to all these I reply with that Spirit which " injured innocence 
Inspires " ; that they are all False and malicious. I rejoice Sir that no part 
of my Publick Conduct can Cause a Guilty Blush to possess my Cheek, 
nor have I Ever wished to Conceal my Publick Sentiment as to getting a 
Decisive answer respecting Vermont. I Ever Endeavored to do it ; but in 

been my practice, and it has frequently afforded me an opportunity of restoring the 
Confidence of contending Parties, if nevertheless any person however friendly to me, 
was publickly to reflect on the Character of another Friend, I should think it my 
Duty as publickly to resent such Conduct. 

"I have been thus explicit on the Subject, because I should be exceedingly unhappy to 
find, that the intercepted Letter had produced in your Excellencys Mind any unfavorable 
Sentiments respecting myself ; but should this be the Case, I shall still continue to main- 
tain that disinterested Friendship and Respect, and that afi^ectionate Regard, which I 
have ever entertained for your Excellency 

"I remain sir with every Sen[timen]t of Friendship and Esteem your most obed. and 
very hum ser 

" Elbridge Gerry " 

[635]! N, H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 64; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
N. H. Records, Council Corn, 1780-1781 ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXV. 121 
(part). 

~ Peter Olcott. See the Journals, Feb. 7, Aug. 2, Sept. 19. 

40 



560 Continental Congress 

the way pointed out in the Confederation vh by appointing Commission- 
ers. New York urged Congress to Decide upon it themselves. The Least 
attention to the Confederation will Show you, whether I was right. I 
moved repeatedly for the Commissioners to be appointed but did not then 
prevail, in the Course of the Argmt I urged the inconvenience of Con- 
gress undertaking Such a Lengthy tryal, at a time when the army was 
Dissolving, the Enemy making rapid Conquests and the Independance of 
America tottering to its Base and Even when a Decision was given it 
could not be binding as it would be Contrary to the Confederation and not 
warranted by the Acts of New Hamps'r or N : York. Instead of Saying 
That I was Sorry to Differ from my Constituents, I Said that New Hamp- 
shire did not Expect Congress to Decide on it as a Body; and Even if 
they did I should Differ from them in Sentiment. You must remember 
Sir that the Committee of Safety Informed me that they did not expect 
any thing further would be Done This time than to appoint Commission- 
ers ; So that I did not Differ in Sentiment from them as to the mode of 
Tryal. with respect to Saying That I would rather it Should be a State 
than not : I Deny it Totally in words I often Said I had much rather it 
Should be a Seperate State than Joined to New York. I also when Con- 
versing with People who were intimate with Mr. Allen and others who 
were in town threw out Sentiments to Show that New Hampshire did 
not wish to persecute the people of the Grants with that violence, that 
the People of New York had done, you cannot forget Sir that in Con- 
versing upon the matter The Committee Instructed me to Conduct myself 
with Such address, as not to appear violent agt. the People of the Grants, 
that they might when they found themselves unable to obtain their Claim 
of being an Independ't State throw their weight in the Scale in favor of 
N Hamps'r and that if it could not be Secured to New Hampshire, to use 
my Influence for its being a Seperate State, in preference to its being 
annexed to New York. How Injurious then must it be to receive a Cen- 
sure for Complying with the Verbal Instructions I received. As To my 
receiving a Grant of Land from Vermont as a Bribe; I am happy in the 
reflection that no bribe of any kind Ever was received by me upon any 
occasion. I never Spoke to a man who belonged to the Grant Except 
Olcutt and a man that was in Company with him. Since I Left New Hamp- 
shire nor did I Ever hear of any grant of Land being made to me by them, 
and I will venture to assert that there is not a man on Earth, villian 
Enough to Say that I had Ever the most Distant hint of Such a Thing 
Allen and others when here ^ avoided coming near me, or Speaking to me, 
and I thinking I had no Business to intrude on their Delicacy or unneces- 
sary Caution never Spoke a word to Either of them. I shall now follow 
the Instructions you Inclosed me. one part of them I See is agreable to the 
Sentiments of Colo. Olcutt which he Borrowed from the Delegates of 
New York This has been urged by them with violence namely for Con- 
gress to Determine first whether it Shall be an Independent State. I am 
Surprized that no man in the assembly has Discovered the Design of this, 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 12, 15, 19, 26, 1780; also nos. 438, 452, 461, 473, 475, 513, 
539, ante, and the letter of the New York delegates Mar. 11, in the next volume. 



February, lySi 561 

if this is first Determined, the Decision of the King and Council Takes 
place immediately and the Grants fall under the Same jurisdiction they 
were by the Edict of 1764 they will then Delay a final Decision by Every 
possible artifice till they get the mind of the people reconciled to their 
Government — permit me Sir to ask you ; if this Question was Determined 
to morrow, and Vermont Should Submit ; under whose Jurisdiction, would 
they [be] previous to a final Determination? would they be at Liberty 
to Chuse for themselves? or come under the Jurisdiction that held them 
previous to the Decision of the King and Council? or would they be under 
the Jurisdiction which held them by the Last Judgment given between the 
Contending States? if the former was to take place the Judgment would 
have no Effect, Except that of producing Endless Confusion if the 
Second it would be to annull the Judgment of the King and Council with- 
out a Tryal and this cannot be Expected ; then Sir the Latter must take 
place of Course, and the wish of New York will be Compleated. This 
they have been aiming at from the beginning and I am Sorry to find that 
Colo. Olcutt has brought the assembly of New Hampshire to assist them. 
I never Supposed it could or ought to be made a Serious Question whether 
this Tract of Country had a right to be a Seperate State, now Let us 
Suppose for a moment that Congress were to try this Question and De- 
termine it to be a Seperate State, are not New Hamps'r or New York or 
both Strip'd of their right by this Decision? Then Sir Examine the Con- 
federation and See whether Congress have any Such power : you will find 
that they have no authority to Determine or to try but by Commissioners. 

The regular mode in my opinion is this ; as the Lands are Claimed by 
two States (to one of which it most assuredly belongs) Congress are to 
appoint Commissioners and if they Determine it to be within the Limits 
of Either There never can be a Question whether it is an Independant 
State. 

I only mention those things for the Consideration of the assembly be- 
fore whom I wish this Letter to be Laid for their information. I shall 
follow the Instructions I have received Let the Consequences be as they 
may. 

Sir you cannot Suppose me Chagrin'd at being recalled from Congress 
as I Petitioned for it Long Since; but I feel myself hurt at being almost 
pressed to undertake in behalf of the State, and then to have a Tryal upon 
me and a Condemnation to take place without my being heard I have 
now given the motives of my Conduct to my Constituents ; and I am as- 
sured they will approve them. I wish the Gentlemen appointed may Serve 
you with more abilities ; but with more Integrity I am Sure they cannot. 
I Shall not however repine at the Efifects of Art or malice ; I am not the 
first man who has Suffered for being a faithful Servant to the Publick. 
I Shall (however Severely used or indelicately Treated) attend to its true 
Interests with that Disinterested openness, which I have Ever Done. 
Though my feelings may be wounded, my Integrity cannot be Shaken, 
and whenever my Country in General or New Hampshire in particular 
call for the Exercise of those inconsiderable abilities which I possess they 
Shall be Exercised with uprightness and Integrity. I want no post I 



562 Continental Congress 

Solicit no office I never did and am Convinced I never Shall when my 
Country Demand my Services they Shall not be withheld, when they are 
not wanted I Shall be happy in retirement. 

I Inclose you the opinion of Congress respecting Mr. Delatour/ and 
am with much Esteem and respect your most obedt. Servt. 

Jno Sullivan. 

PS I will forward the Commission as Soon as possible. 

Feby. 6th 8 o C A: M: The Secretary has this moment Informed me 
that he reed, your Letter and will forward the Commissions by this Days 
Post. 

636. Theodorick Bland to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

,, , c^, Philadelphia Feby. 6th 1780 [1781].^ 

My dear S r, y / l / j 

.... Congress have come to a resolution to demand of the States, 
power to lay Duties not exceeding 5 p Ct. on all foreign Imports, to raise 
a fund for a loan for carrying on the war, the necessity of which is ap- 
parent, and, that it be general is not less so. tis for this reason Congress 
desire to have the power vested in them to avoid procrastination and par- 
tial impositions.^ .... 

637. Thomas Burke to William Bingham.^ 
D'rSir, _ [February 6? 1781.]^ 

I find upon making my observations that the Election of A Minister 
for foreign affairs will probably fall upon Mr. Madison from Virginia. 

■* See the Journals, Feb. 5, and nos. 539, 559, 624, ante. 
[636] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

- A letter from Joseph Jones to Governor Jefiferson the same day is in Cal. Va. 
State Papers. I. 492. Ezekiel Cornell wrote to Governor Greene of Rhode Island, Feb. 6, 
relative to Maryland's acceptance of the Confederation : " I have now the pleasure to 
inform you from undoubted authority that the Senate have concurred, the Law is com- 
pleat, their Delegates are on their way to Congress, immediately after their arrival I 
expect to see the Confederation compleated." He added : " I shall say nothing on the 
affairs of Congress, Gen. Varnum is able to give you a much better account than I can. 
The change in the several Boards I mentioned remains as it did. But every day seems 
to produce new Evidence that the Measure will shortly be adopted. There are many 
Gentlemen talked of to fill those great offices of state. As to their abilities, their [sic] 
is a great division of sentiment. I hope they may hit upon the best — they will have a 
large field before them, but not to stand still in. Either honor or disgrace will attend 
whoever undertakes." R. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 28; Staples, 
R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 325. 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 3, 7, Mar. 22; cf. nos. 628, 629, 633, ante, and nos. 639, 642, 
643, post. 

[637]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. 

2 This letter, evidently the result of the inquiries promised in Burke's letter to 
Bingham Jan. 30 (no. 630, ante), was doubtless written very shortly afterward. The date 
is conjectured to have been Feb. 6 because the nom.ination of Richard Law Feb. 7 suggests 
that that day may have been assigned for nominations, at least that Burke had reason for 
anticipating some action on the following day relative to the election of a secretary for 
foreign affairs, hence requested Bingham's decision " in the morning ". 

In Arch, of Md., XLV. 317, is a letter from the Maryland council, Feb. 19, replying to 
a letter of Feb. 6 from Samuel Adams on behalf of a committee of Congress. It is not 
certain for what committee Adams was writing. 



February, ifSi 563 

he is a young Gentleman of Industry and Abilities, but I fear a little defi- 
cient in the Experience Necessary for rendering immediate Service in 
that department, however his local Situation makes him more desireable 
to the Southern Gentlemen, and every one to whom I have spoken of you 
have expressed themselves handsomly, but objected to the chusing so many 
Officers in One State of the Union, this is the only objection, and in a 
New Jealous republic it is impossible to surmount such objections. I 
would not venture to Nominate you unless upon knowing my Opinion of 
your Success you may desire it, for tho it is my own wish that it might 
fall upon you yet I would not venture to make the experiment unless I had 
pretty clear ground to hope that you might be appointed. 

If you wish to be Nominated let me hear from you in the morning. 

I am D'r S'r your obt. St. 

Thos. Burke 

638. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philada. February 8, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, two important Resolves of Con- 
gress of the 3d and 7th Instant 

Recommending to the several States, as indispensably necessary, that 
they vest a Power in Congress to levy, for the Use of the United States, 
a Duty of five per cent, ad Valorem at the Time and Place of Importation, 
upon all Goods, \\^ares and Merchandize of foreign Growth and Manu- 
facture, which may be imported into any of the said States, from any for- 
eign Port, Island or Plantation after the first Day of May 1781, except 
Arms etc. as therein expressed. Also a like Duty on all Prizes and Prize 
Goods 

The Monies arising from the said Duties to be appropriated to the Dis- 
charge of the Principal and Interest of the Debts already contracted or 
which may be contracted on the Faith of the United States for supporting 
the present War ; and the Duties continued until the said Debts are finally 
discharged. 

You will observe from the Tenor of the Resolves that if any one or 
more of the States immediately pass a Law vesting in Congress the Pow- 
ers requested, it cannot take Effect or operate to any Purpose until all the 
States, that are not prevented by the Events of the \\'ar, shall have passed 
similar Laws. That is, at present, all the States except South Carolina and 
Georgia, and when all the States have passed the necessary Laws, the 
Monies arising from the Duties are to be applied to their Benefit, exclusive 
of the remaining States unless such States shall pass similar Laws the 
first Session after the Events of the \\'ar will admit of the assembling 
their Legislatures, and Congress have not the least Doubt of their Com- 
pliance as soon as Circumstances shall put it in their Power 

[638] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 229. Texts of this circular 
are found in a number of different repositories. 



564 Continental Congress 

The Necessity of the Duties and Imposts being raised under one general 
and uniform Direction, is an Idea that will readily suggest itself. 

I am specially directed to urge the Necessity of immediately calling the 
Assembly, if not already convened, for the Purpose of vesting Congress 
with the Powers mentioned in the enclosed Resolutions 

Although it may be improbable any Person not particularly acquainted 
with the daily Business in Congress should have an adequate Conception 
of the Difficulties and Embarrassments that arise for Want of some per- 
manent Fund to support the national Credit and cement more effectually 
the common Interest of the United States ; yet, I doubt not, the Wisdom, 
Knowledge and Penetration of the respective Legislatures will view those 
Embarrassments as very great. 

It ought to be rememb[e]red that Loans are not to be obtained without 
some certain and permanent Fund established at least to discharge the 
annual Interest punctually. That, in the present State of our Finances 
the Army must be in a great Measure supported by the States separately, 
in a precarious Manner and perhaps very unequally : and a Train of Em- 
barrassments, too tedious to need Enumeration, must ensue which have 
already been felt in a Degree and must greatly increase 

I have only to add that it will be of Importance to transmit to Congress 
the Acts that may be passed in Consequence of the enclosed Resolves as 
soon as possible. 

639. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Feby. 8th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have, from a conviction of the impossibility of their 
doing the whole of the business of this Continent within themselves, 
agreed to appoint a person at the head of each great department ; that is, 
a Financier at the head of all matters that relate to the Treasury, a Secre- 
tary of Foreign Affairs, a Secretary of War. and a Secretary of Marine; 
these officers are each to take the charge of their respective departments, 
and to be accountable. I expect we shall in a few days proceed to the ap- 
pointment of men to fill these offices, and I fear we shall not be able to 
get persons who are properly qualified for the purposes. These are all 
very important appointments, and require men of great abilities, great 
integrity, and great industry, and they should be men who possess the full- 
est confidence of the people.' .... 

The letter we reed, lately from the President of Senate and Speaker 
of the x\ssembly is with a committee who are endeavoring to devise ways 
and means for the relief of our State; and I am convinced that Congress, 
as they are fully sensible of our distressed circumstances will afford any 
relief in their power.^ .... 

[639]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 157. 
2 See no. 621, note 2, ante. 
* See no. 632, ante. 



February, I/81 565 

640. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

Feb. 8, 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Speech of the King of Engl'd to his Parhament, and the 
narrative of Brigadier Morgan's Success shall be inclosed for your Infor- 
mation. At the latter you must rejoice with Fear As to the King 

of England's Speech it may be construed for War or Peace ; for, the only 
Thing that can be gathered from it is that he thinks he had got a Parlia- 
ment absolutely devoted to his Will. It is that which gives him more than 
ordinary Satisfaction. 

Our Prospects as to Money do not brighten. You may be assured that 
115 were yesterday given for i and this at a time when every Body com- 
plains of the Want of Old Bills. I think much of this Harm arises from 
the Tender Acts of this State. It is supposed that the next Publication of 
Exchange will be at 100 this is the Story propagated as the foundation 
of demanding upwards of 100 for i. But, why should I say any Thing 
on this Head. You well know the People here and their vile Practices. 

641. Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 8th 1781. 
D'r Sir, 

.... Congress have asked the States to impower them to lay duties 
and Imposts on imported articles to the amount of five pr Ct. the neces- 
sity of a revenue, the ease of raising a Small sum in this way, and the 
utter impracticability of its being effected in any other manner must Strike 
every person with Conviction of the propriety of the measure. 

I dont think the rule proposed for laying on the duties is the best but it 
is the best Congress would do at present. I think the duties ought to be 
varied according to the nature and usefulness of the articles. Some arti- 
cles will bear a very high duty while others will bear but little or none, 
but it is to be observed, that the duties of 5 pr Ct. will rise higher upon 
articles of luxury than others in proportion as they are dearer.^ .... 

642. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Feby. 9th, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have considered it to be indispensibly necessary that 
they have some established funds on which to depend, and among the ways 
and means of effecting this none appeared more natural, easey, and equita- 
ble than imposts and duties on articles imported into the country, provided 

[640] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 226. 

[641]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 623. 
2 Cf. nos. 633, 638, ante. 

[642] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 198 (signed by Huntington, 
Wolcott, and Root). 



566 Continental Congress 

they are imposed by one rule and take effect at the same time in all the 
States, and the avails are appropriated for a revenue to the United States. 
This will prevent any jealousey from arising between the States, all will 
be subjected to the duties alike, none will pay ultimately any more than 
they consume of the articles, and each will receive its quota of the avails ; 
wherefore Congress have requested the States to invest them with a power 
of laying a duty of five pr. cent ad valorem on all prize goods and other 
articles imported for the purpose of revenue, to be exercised as soon as 
all the States, who are in a capacity, shall consent to the same. The rea- 
sons which shew the necessity and propriety of this measure are so ob- 
vious, we need not trouble your Excellency with a recapitulation of them, 
for a moment's reflection will evince that this is the only way in which 
the United States can derive any revenue from imposts and duties. This 
will be in aid of the taxes and a means of rendering the burden of the 
war more equal. We shall be happy to find that the measure meets with 
the approbation and ready concurrence of your Excellency and the General 
Assembly.' 

Virginia has ceded her claim of territory lying northwest of the river 
Ohio with some savings, extracts of which have been transmitted to your 
Excellency. Maryland has acceded to the confederation; although no offi- 
cial accts. are reed., yet the fact is unquestionable.^ 

Congress have newly arranged their Executive departments and estab- 
lished the following offices (vi:s) Minister of Foreign Affairs, Superin- 
tendant of Finance, Secretary of War, and Secretary of Marine.'* .... 

643. Theoderick Bland to the Goverxor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 9th 1781.^ 

The Delegates some time ago transmitted to Your Excellency officially 
an acct. of their application to the Minister of France to interpose his 
interest with Monsr. de Ternay to induce him to detach a frigate of the 

2 See nos. 633, 638, 641, ante. 

3 See no. 628, 629, ante, and no. 643, post. 

* See no. 621, note 2, ante, and no. 661, post. 

[643] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, I. 500. 
2 Ezekiel Cornell wrote to Governor Green of Rhode Island Feb. 9: 

" I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency two hand bills that were published 
yesterday. The inteligence from the Southward hath carried much joy in this place. 
It came to hand very seasonable, as our affairs were gloomy. Maryland have passed 
a Law directing their delegates to sign the Confederation. Mr. Carrol one of their 
delegates came into City last evening, and was so kind as to shew me the Act of the 
Assembly. Mr. Hanson is expected every Hour, when the Confederation will be com- 
pleated." R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 27; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 328. 

The handbills were probably the resolves of Feb. 3 and 7 relative to the impost. See 
Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals under Feb. 3. 

Carroll first attended Congress Feb. 12, when he presented the act of Maryland direct- 
ing the delegates of that state to sign the Confederation. Hanson did not attend until 
Feb. 22. Cf. nos. 616, 622-629, 633, 642, ante, and nos. 648, note 4, 659, 662, 663, 669, 672, 
post. 



February, lySi 567 

Fr : Squadron at Rhode Island, to convey the Arms belonging to our State 
which came in the Comite, thither in safety. Since which my Personal 
application, singly, has been unremitted to prevail by the same Channel, to 
have a line of Battle Ships and one or two frigates sent into our Bay. but 
I have redoubled these applications and enforced them with the strongest 
Arguments I could adduce ever since the Sailing of Arnold from New 
York, having been always apprehensive that his design was on our Coun- 
try. I am now happy to inform your Excellency, that in Consequence of 
our Joint application the Arms are on boa[r]d a frigate intended to be 
sent as above mentioned ; and of enclosing you a Copy of a letter from the 
Count De Rochambeau which was this day received by Congress, through 
Genl. Washington ; besides which the Minister of France has communi- 
cated to me, and Charged me with Secrecy to every Soul, but your Excel- 
lency, with whom he wishes it to remain inviolate untill executed, that 
M'r Des Touches the Present Commr. in Chief of the French Fleet, has 
determined to put to Sea (in consequence of the disaster that has hap- 
pend to the British Fleet, which gives him a Superiority) and either Give 
Battle to. or Block up the British fleet in Gardner's Bay in either of which 
cases he is determined to send one or two Ships of the line and two frig- 
ates into our Bay. an Express being about to set off tomorrow I thought 
it necessary to give your Excellency this Intelligence, that every prepara- 
tion might be made by land, as well as that Pilots might be orderd with 
the Utmost secrecy and dispatch to attend at the Capes for their arrival, 
should fortune favor us in this Critical and interesting affair as we expect. 
Your Excellency will be not less aware of the importance of being pre- 
pared on land to co-operate with these vessels shd. they arrive, than of 
sending on board proper pilots and Conductors, with every necessary in- 
telligence of the Situation, state and strength of the Enemy by land and 
Sea as also the most convenient stations and Harbors for the Ships of our 
Ally in Case of necessity.^ 

I cannot conclude my letter without taking notice how much we are 
indebted to his Excellency the Cheval'r de La Lucerne for the frankness 
with which he has Concurred and the cordiality with which he is inclined 
to promote every measure that we have Jointly, and I have individually 
had the honor to propose to him for the good of the common Cause, and 
for the particular benefit and relief of our States. I have the honor to be 
with the greatest Sincerity D'r S'r 

Yrs. most affectionately 

Theok. Bland 

3 Feb. 10 Joseph Jones wrote to Governor Jefferson relating further news con- 
cerning the French and British fleets, particularly the disaster suffered by the latter. 
He added : " Whether We shall receive any assistance in consequence of this Event 
will soon be manifest. I could not avoid giving you this information that measures may be 
concerted on our part for cooperation if an opportunity shall be offered us" (Cat. Va. 
State Papers, I. 503). Feb. 13 Jones and Bland transmitted definite information of the 
British loss, as obtained through General Varnum. " It is moreover added ", they remark, 
" that on hearing the above the Enemy at N. York sent orders to Arnold to retreat from 
Virginia. Heavenly Storm" (ibid., p. 511). Cf. no. 647, post. 



568 Continental Congress 

644. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. loth 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favor of the 23d ulto. by Majr. Giles," for which I ac- 
knowledge myself very much obliged to you. The intelligence it contained 
was a most healing cordial to our drooping spirits. It was doubly welcome 
as it was so very unexpected. It seems to have had a very sensible effect 
on some folks, for as this is a convincing proof that something is to be 
done, in that department, which for some time past had appeared to be 
almost annihilated, and forgot, they seem at present to be well disposed 
to give it every possible aid, in order to restore it to re-existence, and 
vigour; and give it a fair chance to distinguish itself. I can assure you, 
that could we command the means, to put you in the most respectable 
situation you could desire, it would be done. But alas ! the spirit is willing, 
but the flesh is weak. Indeed the distresses of every department is at pres- 
ent past discription. A want of money totally unhinges every thing. 

In the committees letter you will see what is sent, and sending forward, 
and this day Congress passed an order for £10,000 specie, for a variety of 
necessaries for your department, which I can assure you is stretching a 
point, the state of our coffers considered.' Congress have lately passed an 
act for establishing a permanent revenue, to be at their entire command 
which if agreed to by the states, will certainly give us a tolerable credit — 
however, this will be a work of time.* .... The act is transmitted of 
[to ?] Govr. Rutledge, and as he is with you, I thought it unnecessary to 
send it, as he will of course communicate it to you. I am very happy to 
find you are not disappointed in the character I gave you of Mr. Rutledge, 
and I am convinced, the more you know of him, the greater reasons you 
will have for admiring his many amiable qualities, and extensive abilities. 
Both his heart, and his head are sound, and you will find him one of those 
characters, who improve on acquaintance. 

The Minister communicated to me this day in confidence, and in the 
same manner I convey it to you, that a part of the french fleet will soon 
make their appearance in your quarter. They will first [ma]ke an attempt 
on Gardners bay. if nothing is to be done there, the next object will be 
the fleet in Virginia, and then to make a feint on Chs. Town. I give you 
the hint, you know how to improve it. That is to say, if you shd. be in 
capacity to take advantage of it. At any rate it will most probably draw 
of[f] a part of Cornwallis force towards C. T. which will give you a 
breathing spel {sicl. 

Rest assured My Dear Sir, that nothing, which can be done for your 
support, will be neglected. 

[644] 1 William L. Qements Library, Greene Papers. 

2Maj. Edward Giles, who brought the despatches of General Greene read in 
Congress Feb. 8. See, further, the Journals, Feb. 17, Mar. 9. 

^ The committee on the letters of Generals Greene and Morgan, appointed Feb. 8, 
received additional instructions Feb. 9 and oflfered a report Mar. 8, which was acted upon 
Mar. 9. Another measure relative to the Southern army was reported Feb. 20, by a 
committee appointed Feb. 13. Cf. nos. 655, 656, post. 

•* See the Journals, Feb. 3, 7, and nos. 622, 638, 641, 642, ante. 



February, lySi 569 

I am sensible that your time must be very much occupied, by the im- 
portant cares which have devolved on you, but whenever a leisure moment 
offers, believe me, none of your friends will receive more satisfaction in 
hearing of your welfare, than 

Yr. most affect, and Obedt. Hmbl. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews. 

645. Samuel J. Atlee to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed).^ 

„, „. Philada. Feby. nth, 1781. 

U r bir, 

Every exersion in my Power has been employed in the important Office 
Councill were pleased to entrust with me, I flatter myself with full Satis- 
faction to that Honorable Board. It will give me infinite pleasure to find 
any Gentleman Councill shall please to appoint as my Successor in Office, 
shall perform the Duties with greatest Satisfaction to the Publick and to 
the Board for [from ?] whence he derives his Powers 

646. A Committee of Congress to the Assistant Quartermaster- 
General (Charles Pettit).^ 

^^. Philad. 12 Feby. 1781. 

Congress have appointed a Committee to state the publick debts. Those 
which are due in your Department, and especially on Certificates for sup- 
plies ought to be provided for, as the last are a great Obstruction in col- 
lecting the Taxes. 

I am directed to apply to you for a general Estimate founded on the best 
materials and Information in your power, distinguishing the debts due 
on Certificates and to request it may be furnished as soon as possible. If 
you should be unable to comply you will be pleased to assign the Reasons 
for the satisfaction of Congress.^ 

I am Sir Your most Obedt. Sert. 

Jas. Duane 

for the Committee 

647. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

r. f,. Philada. Feby. [12], 1781. 

Dear Sir, 

I have your favor of the 5th instant by the post. Col. Harrison ^ arrived 

here yesterday, and as he mentions no circumstance which indicated an 

[645]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

[646]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 4184; William L. Qements Library (con- 
temporary copy). 

- See the Journals, Feb. 7, 17, 19, Apr. 18. 

[647]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings (ed. Hunt), L 126. 

2 Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, who had been 
sent to Congress on a special mission. See nos. 540, 610, ante, and nos. 649, 652, 660, 661, 
post; also Jefferson's letter to him Jan. 29 {Writings, ed. Ford, H. 438; Official Letters, 
II. 304). Harrison wrote to Governor Jefferson Feb. 12, "I arrived at this place late in 
the evening of yesterday" {Cal. J'a. State Papers, I. 509). 



570 Continental Congress 

intended departure of the Enemy I am afraid your intelligence on that 
subject was not well founded.^ Immediately on the receipt of your former 
letter relating to an exchange of C. Taylor I applied to the Admiralty 
department, and if such a step can be brought about with propriety, I hope 
he will be gratified, but considering the tenor of their treatment of naval 
prisoners, and the resolutions with which it has inspired Congress,* I do 
not think it probable that exchanges will go on easily, and if this were less 
the case, a mere passenger under the indulgence too of a parole, can 
scarcely hope to be preferred to such as are suffering the utmost hardships 
and even made prisoners in public service/ .... 

648. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Dear S'r Philadelphia February 13th 1781. 

I did myself the honor yesterday to address a few lines to you by 
M. de Marbois, and the Counts Charlus and Dillon." A vessel from Cadiz 
arrivd here the day before yesterday: The president received by this 
opportunity letters from Mr. Carmichael, the last dated the 24th of Deer, 
none from Mr. Jay.^ .... The dificulty about the navigation of the 
Mississippi remains : It will I believe be remov'd on our part in a few 
days. Preparations were making in England to send more troops, sup- 
pos'd to be destin'd to fix a Post at Portsmouth, and a part for Charles 
Town. He hopes our Ally will frustrate their design. I will endeavour to 
be more particular on this head by Col. Forrest who will leave us in a day 
or two.* .... 

3 Pendleton's letter of Feb. 5 is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., 
XIX. 122. See no. 643, ante. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 5, 29. 

^ Pendleton's earlier letter respecting Craddock Taylor has not been found. In 
the letter of Feb. 5 he wrote : " Our friend Craddock Taylor wishes to know if there 
are any hopes of his speedy exchange. There are some seamen at Winchester who 
would answer the purpose, if they can be applied to it, but that you know best." 
[648]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 58. 

2 Frangois de Marbois (secretary to the French minister), the Comte de Castries 
de Charlus, and Comte Robert Dillon. 

3 Letters from Carmichael Nov. 28 and Dec. 19 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 
164, 198) were read in Congress Monday, Feb. 12. That of Dec. 24 is not mentioned in 
the Journals and seems to have disappeared. See the letter of Jan. 4 {ibid., p. 227) ; cj. 
nos. 649, 651, post. 

4 Lieut. -Col. Uriah Forrest, then in Philadelphia to offer his resignation and 
obtain an adjustment of his half -pay allowance (see no. 666, post), wrote to Governor 
Lee Feb. 12 : 

"It is impossible to say how much Injury may arise from Maryland not being rep- 
resented in Congress ; besides the Capital Question of laying a duty on all imported goods 
(with some few exceptions only and then too meerly to gratify the whim and Caprice 
of particular States). Congress have under Consideration the appointment of all Civil 
Officers, the different departments have all undergone an entire reformation, there is to 
be One Man only at the Head of the four great departments who are to Rank and be 
Stiled as follows — first the Minister of Finance, 2nd. the Minister at War, 3d Secy, of 
the Marine dept. and 4thly. Secret'y for foreign affairs. Now if Maryland was represented 
the Confederation could be signed which would prevent two Evils the first and most 
Capital is that it would exclude the Members of Congress some of whom are making 
Interest, or at least are named and expect the appointments, or some of them. The 
Second and perhaps lesser Evil is that three States are now Represented by One Mem- 
ber which Member has a vote, when Maryland and one other State have each a member 
who remain Cyphers." Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXVIII. 67. 



February, 1/81 571 

The Mutiny which arose in part of the Jersey Hne has been properly 
settled two of them executed, which I hope will put a stop to that danger- 
ous Spirit.' .... 

649. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson)/ 

Philada. Feby. 13th 1781. 
Sir, 

By the Speaker Harrison who arrived here the day before yesterday we 
were honored with your Excellency's favor of the 26th Ulto. W'e shall 
communicate your answer to the Baron d'Arendt, and if his claim against 
the State be supported by proper evidence shall take the best steps in our 
power to discharge it " 

A Vessel just arrived from Cadiz has brought Congress two letters 
from Mr. Carmichael, from one of which dated Madrid Novr. 28th, 1780, 
the following is extracted : . . . .^ 

Private letters by the same conveyance add that the blockade of Gibral- 
ter was continued with great vigor, and that the garrison began to be 
severely distressed. 

650. James Mitchell Varnum to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia 15th Feb'ry 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of inclosing you a Letter, which came under Cover 
to me from Governor Bo wen. " 

It is a very just observation of the Baron de Montesquieu, that in all 
democratical Governments the Manners controul the Laws. We find that 
Observation fully verefied in the United States. The Manners are gener- 
ally corrupt, and the Laws but feebly executed. In Times of War the 
Deliberations of senatorial, or republican Bodies, being influenced by a 
Variety of Objects, are seldom directed to energetic and decisive Opera- 
tions. The Result is frequently Disappointment or Disgrace. The public 
Checks upon the reserved licentiousness of the People are too weak to sup- 
press their Clamors, and their Resentment is commonly satiated by trans- 
ferring the Odium upon executive Officers. Misfortune is construed into 
Wickedness or Weekness, and the shining Merits of Years are enveloped 
in the illfated Events of an Hour. How ungenerous is the human Heart 
when under the Controul of tumultuous Passions! So reluctant are Man- 
kind at the dignified Station of their own Existence, that they assume every 

^ See nos. 623, 625, note 4, ante. 
[649] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones, Madison, and Bland) ; 
Cal. Va. State Papers, I. 513. 

2 TefFerson's letter to the delegates Jan. 26 is in Official Letters, II. 302. Con- 
cerning the mission of Speaker Benjamin Harrison see nos. 540, 610, 647, ante, and nos. 
652, 660, 661, post. 

3 Carmichael's letter of Nov. 28, 1780, is in Wharton, Rev. DipL Corr., IV. 164. 
The passage quoted pertains particularly to Great Britain's preparations, financial and 
military, for carrying on the war during the year. See no. 648, ante, and no. 651, post. 

[650]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, vol. XVI., no. 10. 

- Jabez Bowen, deputy governor of Rhode Island in 1778. 



5.72 Continental Congress 

kind of Allowance for their own Deviations, while they expect of oth- 
ers the Prescience and Omnipotence of Gods! You, my worthy Friend, 
have Occasion to realise these Reflections ; And while many feel the great- 
est Inquietude at your present Situation, they expect, with increasing- Sat- 
isfaction, your full Restitution to the Honors and Confidence of a Coun- 
try, bound by every Sentiment of Gratitude and Affection, to hold you 
dear. 

Permit me Sir, to wish you every possible Felicity in your present 
domestic Retirement, and a speedy Accession of increasing military Fame ! 

Be pleased to make my best Respects to your worthy Lady, and accept 
of the Sincerest Acknowledgements of Sir, your most obedient Servant, 
and Sincere Friend, 

J. M. Varnum. 

651. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell/ 

Philadelphia, 15th February, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... By a vessel, which arrived last Sunday from Cadiz, we have 
letters as late as the 19th December Mr. Cumberland is still per- 
mitted to continue at the Court of Madrid — a very suspicious circum- 
stance.' There is great reason to apprehend that the British mean to for- 
tify and support their station at Portsmouth, or some other in that neigh- 
borhood, in order to shut up the navigation of the bay, and by making fre- 
quent incursions into the country, prevent the State of Virginia from 
sending aid to the Carolinas. Congress is every day engaged in a variety 
of matters, but under our present situation, it is probably best to say little 
as to the particulars. I hope to have some opportunity before long by 
which I may be more communicative.^ .... 

652. Theoderick Bland to the Assistant Quartermaster-General 

(Charles Pettit).^ 

Philada. Feby. i6th 1781. 

I beg leave to inform you that a Motion was made by the Virginia 
Delegates to authorize Col. Harrison — Agent Sent by that state for a 
Particular Purpose — to exchange about four thousand Dollars of Con- 
tinental Money of that state, of the new Emission at the treasury, which 
Congress readily assented to. But being informed by a Member, that 
there was a large Sum of money in the Hands of the O'r Mast'r Genl. 
now in this City, which was to be sent on to the Southern Army, where 
the Money above mentioned passes Currently the motion was withdrawn 
and the Sense of Congress was taken thereon and it was their opinion that 

[65i]iMcRee, Life of Iredell. I. 489. 

2 Sunday was Feb. 11. See nos. 648, 649, anfc. 

3 In a letter to Iredell Feb. 10 (Life of Iredell. I. 486) Johnston remarks: "I 

am now quite well, and attend Congress every day when the weather is good 

I long very much to be home again. I have no relish for politics." 

[652]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



February, lySi 573 

Col. Harrison slid. Exchange the Continental Money Issued on acct. of 
the State of Virginia to that amount for like Bills Issued on acct. of this 
state — Col. Harrison being in immediate want of money for the purpose 
of forwarding necessary articles of Military Stores etc. to that State. 
I have no doubt of your accomodating him with such as will answer his 
purpose in this City, in pursuance to its being the Sense of Congress that 
you shd. do so.' I am with great regard, S'r 
Yr. Most obedt. Sert. 

Theo'k Bland 

Delegate from the State of Virginia 

653. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 17th, 1781. 
Dear S'r, 

.... A Committee of Congress have under Consideration the re- 
moval of the Convention Troops. I hope soon to have it in power to in- 
form you of the determination of Congress on that subject.^ .... 

654. Samuel Adams to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(John Hancock).^ 

Sir, 

The Delegates of Massachusetts in Congress desire your Excellency 
may be informd that the Resolution of the General Assembly relating to 
the Officers in the Department of the Quarter Master General etc. inclosd 
in your Letter of 18 Deer, was laid before Congress early after it was 
receivd, and a Committee has since made a favorable Report, the Con- 
sideration of which will be movd as soon [as] an opportunity offers. 
Notice would sooner have been given of this, but it was delayd in hopes 
of a final Decision.- .... 

Philad. Feb 19 1781.^ 

2 There is no record in the Jotirnals either of the motion or of its withdrawal. 
Concerning Harrison's mission see no. 649, ante, and no. 660, post. 

[653]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 57. 

- This was one of the matters brought under consideration through a letter from 
Benjamin Harrison Feb. 13. See no. 647, ante, and no. 660, post; also the Journals, Feb. 
20, 24, 26, Mar. 3, 14, 15, 17, 23, 24, May 22, 23, June 12. See, further, President Hun- 
tington to Governor Jefferson Mar. 4, in the next volume. 

[654]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 

- The Massachusetts resolutions were laid before Congress Jan. 5, but the 
committee's report upon them has not been found. This draft of Adams's reply to Han- 
cock is written on the back of Hancock's letter of Dec. 18. 

3 Ezekiel Cornell wrote to Governor Greene of Rhode Island Feb. 19 : " Con- 
gress have passed a number of spirited resolves, for reinforcing and supplying the South- 
ern Army, among which there is one ordering the Pennsylvania line to march to the 
Southward by detachments as fast as they can be equipt. More than half their men are 
enlisted and I expect they will soon be in motion, Robert Morris, Esq., was this day 
Elected Financier by the Unanimous voice of Congress. I think it is more than probable 
that General Sullivan will be elected to the head of the War Office, in a few days — 
I will not say unanimously. It is much talked and believed in this place that the next 
summer will be a busy one. I hope every state will joyn heart and hand in their exer- 



574 Continental Congress 

655. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia February 20, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, a Resolution of Con- 
gress of this Day, by which you will be informed that all the Continental 
Troops, from Pennsylvania to Georgia inclusive, are to compose the 
southern Army, except Moylands Corps and such of the Pennsylvania 
Line as are on Command on the western Frontiers. 

Congress deemed themselves under a Necessity of adopting the Mea- 
sure of ordering the Pennsylvania Line to the Southward without con- 
sulting your Excellency, from the late Intelligence received from that 
Quarter, and supposing you on your Journey to New Port : considering 
at the same Time that if the Plan suggested in my other Letter which 
accompanies this, which proposes sending the f rench Forces to the South- 
ward, should take Effect or any other Circumstances should render it 
incompatible with the Good of the public Service to send the Pennsylvania 
Line Southward, your Sentiments might be known and the Orders coun- 
termanded before that Line could be put in Motion. - 

Your Excellency's two Letters of the 13th have been duly received. The 
Paper you mention, addressed to President Reed, was inclosed through 
Mistake by my Secretary, but I do not find any Paper that ought to have 
been enclosed in Lieu of it 

656. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

In Congress Feby, 20th 1781. 
Sir, 

You will perceive by the enclosed copies that a Reinforcement to the 
british Troops in the Southern department has arrived in North Carolina. 
Congress wish you to be well informed of some circumstances which ren- 
der the Situation of that department peculiarly in want of Succour which 
can only be given by the troops of our Ally 

The People of North Carolina in that part last invaded are destitute of 
arms and military equipments, and so great is the distance of that Coun- 
try from the only magazines from which they could be supplied and so 
great and almost insurmountable are the difficulties of transportation, that 
there wants cannot be relieved in time to preserve them from the ravages 
of the Enemy. The people in the western Parts of that Country are fully 

tions against the Common Enemy and that we may not deceive ourselves with the flat- 
tering hopes of peace before there is a better prospect than appears to me at present 

" There is only one delegate in Congress from Maryland ; therefore the Confederation 
is not yet complete." R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 25; Staples, 
R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 329. 

The Journals record Robert Morris's election as superintendent of finance Feb. 20. 
With regard to General Sullivan and the war office see Sullivan to Washington Mar. 6, 
in the next volume. 

[655]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 233. 
- See no. 656, post ; also the Journals, Apr. 16, 28, and the letter of the Virginia 
delegates Apr. 17, in the next volume. 

[656]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 2^6. 



February, lySi 575 

occupied in the arduous Opposition to the Forces under lord Cornwallis. 
The States of Virfjinia and North CaroHna have it not in their power to 
cloathe and equip troops for the field, and the disappointments in receiv- 
ing Supplies from Europe render it impossible for Congress to give them 
such aid as will be effectual 

Congress wish you Sir to take into Consideration all those circum- 
stances and many others which are peculiar to that department, and pro- 
duce such weakness as the public resources are not able to remedy in time 
for their effectual protection and which are well known to you — and they 
desire you to urge all those Considerations to the Commanders of the 
fleet and army of our Ally, and if it should not very matterially interfere 
with the general dispositions designed for those forces to take the speedi- 
est measures for their reinforcing the Army in the Southern department, 
or if this be not eligible to make such dispositions as may create a diversion 

Congress hope that the damage sustained by the british fleet in the late 
storm has occasioned a change of circumstances so favorable to the forces 
of our Ally as to render them superior to the Enemy, and in condition to 
perform this essential Service to the United States without danger of 
being exposed to a Superior force. This measure is no less important than 
that of opposing the Enemy with a well appointed and well equipped force 
in place of a force composed of troops perhaps destitute of every thing 
requisite for keeping the field." 

657. James Lovell to John Jay.^ 
^. February 20, 1781. 

The President sends you instructions passed in Congress the 15th. 

Personally, I am mortified that no letters from you since September 
i6th have reached us." We have not waited for the minute information 
wanted in yours of that date, nor have we received any notice of your 
receipt of our instructions of October 4th before we discussed anew the 
old subject. There has been unfair dealing with your despatches. T appre- 
hend that we are allowed to see only sentiments somewhat different from 
yours. Perhaps the enclosed memorandum may be some clue to your 
scrutiny. 

On the loth of January Congress resolved to establish an office for 
foreign affairs, which I hope will make your station more easy and repu- 
table. I wish most earnestly to have a choice made of the secretary, to 
whom T may deliver all the papers in my possession connected with his 
duty. 

2 This letter was drafted by a committee appointed Feb. 1.3. See also the Jour- 
nals, Feb. 20. Washington replied Feb. 26 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 168, ed. Sparks, VII. 
434). Cf. no. 655, ante, and nos. 660, 661, 671, post. 

[657] 1 Wharton. Rev. Dip!. Corr., IV. 261 (signed by Lovell "for the Committee"). 

2 Jay's letter of Sept. 16, read in Congress Dec. 4, is in Wharton. AVt'. Dipl. 
Corr., IV. 59 (see also his letter to Vergennes, Sept. 22, ibid., p. 62). The Journals 
record no other letter from him until Apr. 24. when his letter of Nov. 6 (ibid., p. 112) 
was read. The letter of Nov. 30 {ibid., p. 174) was read Apr. 25, and one of Jan. 28 
on Apr. 27. A letter to Lovell Oct. 27 {ibid., p. 105) is of particular interest as regards 
the matter of communication between Congress and its minister (see no. 494, ante). 

41 



576 Continental Congress 

658. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphia, Febr. 20th, 1781. 
Please your Excellency, 

Last Saturday Capt. Paul Jones arrived here from France, having been 
sixty two days on his passage ; " he has brought some mihtary stores, but 
no cloathing. By letters from Doct'r Franklin 10,000 suits of cloaths, 
15,000 stand of arms, a large quantity of powder and a great quantity of 
cloths were procured and ready to be shipped as long ago as last August. 
One vessel with 130 bales of cloth is taken and carried to England, the 
rest of the cloathing Capt. Jones says is to come with the second division 
of the French fleet, which were to sail this month for America. The 
delay of sending over the cloathing is yet a mistery, but it is put in a train 
of investigation, and by the help of Capt. Jones trust it will be effected. 

The enemy build their hopes of success on the deranged and supposed 
exhausted state of our finances; if we disappoint them in this we shall 
tottally defeat their prospects and induce them to reasonable terms of 
peace. It behoves us therefore to exert ourselves with spirit at this time, 
and I think it promises the most happy consequences, which I never so 
feelingly realized as I seem to at present. By an estimate that has been 
made of our national debt it doth not exceed 30,000,000 of dollars.^ The 
supplies called for are all indispensible for the next campaign. We must 
stop drawing bills on Europe for the present, the loss is too great to be 
born by any nation, being as 60 to 92. December Journals are not printed. 



659. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia Feby 20th 1781, 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the honor of sending a few lines by Col. Forest, who left 
this place on Sunday morning. Capt. Paul Jones arivd in this City on 
Saturday night from L' Orient which he left about the Middle of Deer. 
We are cruelly disapointed in not receiving any Cloaths or Arms by him. 
A Vessel with Cloaths which saild with him, when he was oblig'd by a 
Storm to return to Port, Capt. Jones says, was taken and carried into 
England. The arms he had on board were damaged, and Landed, and 
could not be put in order agains[t] his departure. He has not brought any 
public Stores that I hear of, excepting abt. 400 Barrells of powder, and 
some lead. Cloathing for ten thousand men ready made up, besides a 
considerable quantity of Cloth and the arms remaind in France for other 
opportunity.^ 

[658]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 200. 

~ Saturday was Feb. 17. See the Journals. Feb. 19, and nos. 659-662, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 19, especially pp. 165-166. 
[659]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 56. 

2 See no. 658, ante, and nos. 660-662, post. 



February, lySi 577 

On the first day of my appearing in Congress, I delivered the Act em- 
powering the Delegates of Maryland to Subscribe the Articles of Con- 
federation etc. It was read, and enterd on the Journals. The presence of 
another Delegate is only wanting to compleat this important business; 
I find the hopes, and expectations of Congress very sanguine on this 
event.^ .... 

660. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. [20 ?] 1781.^ 

Since our last^ in which we informed Yr. Exc'y of the Arrival of Col. 
Harrison in this City, his Applications to Congress have been referd to a 
Special Committee, and the necessary Steps are taking to Answer the 
wishes and wants of the Southern States, and of our State in particular 
as far [as] is practicable in the present Situation of affairs, we doubt not 
but that Gentn. will give you full Information of the Progress he has 
made in the Special Business for which he has been Sent.* 

We are happy to Inform you of the Arrival of Capt. Paul Jones in the 
Ariel, from France. This event would have been a much more pleasing 
one had he brought the cloathing so long and anxiously expected, his 
Cargo is however by no means useless as it Consists of about thirty Ton 
of Powder.^ .... 

P. S. since writing the above we have authentic information that one 
seventy four with two Frigates and a Cutter sailed from Rhode Island on 
the eig[h]th for Chesapeake Bay 

661. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Dear S'r, 

.... You will receive from the president a Copy of a Report which 
has passed in Congress in consequence of Col. Harrisons Communica- 
tions." You will also be informed of the arrival of Provost with a reen- 

3 See no. 648, anle. Carroll attended Feb. 12 ; his colleague John Hanson Feb. 22. 
See, further, the Journals, Feb. 22,, 24, Mar. i, and nos. 662, 663, 669, 672, post. 

[660] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones and Madison); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, I. 548. 

~ Mention of the arrival of Jolin Paul Jones indicates that this letter was prob- 
ably written not earlier than Sunday, Feb. 18 (see nos. 658, 659, a^itc, 661, 662, post) ; 
reference to the application of Benjamin Harrison suggests a knowledge of the action taken 
on the 20th ; and, finally, the custom of the Virginia delegates to write on Tuesdays 
points definitely to Feb. 20 as the proper date. 

3 No. 649, ante. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 13, 15, 20, 22, 24; also nos. 540, 610, 647, 649, 652, ante, 
and no. 661, post. In a letter to Washington Feb. 16 {Cal. Va. State Papers. I. 523) 
Harrison explains his mission. See also his letters to Governor Jefferson Feb. 12, 19, 
ibid., pp. 509, 526. Other items pertaining to the mission are ibid., pp. 492, 500, 503, 511. 

° See nos. 658, 659, ante, 661, 662, post. 
[66i]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
HL 241; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 68. 

2 The resolves of Feb. 20. See no. 660, note 4, ante. 



578 Continental Congress 

forcement to the Enemy in the South and of his progress since his arrival. 
.... The arrival of Provost and the great want of Arms in the South- 
ern States it must be confessed presents a rather gloomy prospect and 
under this temper of Mind you v^ill receive a Letter reiterating what has 
I think been several times intimated, a desire that you will pay particular 
attention to the Southern department.^ I wish we could but content our- 
selves with a communication of Facts and any reflections upon them for 
illustration leaving the combination and execution of the various opera- 
tions of a Campaign to those whose business it is to project and execute 
them. 

P. Jones's arrival gives us no relief in cloathing or Arms, a disappoint- 
ment the more to be regretted as our wants increase, yet we know not 
whom to blame. Jones will I expect unfold this dark and as yet mysteri- 
ous business.* I presume you must have been informed that Virga. has 
receded from her former instructions to her Delegates in Congress re- 
specting the claim on her part to the free Navigation of the Mississippi 
wch. if approved by Congress, will probably bring abt. an alliance with 
Spain and an acknowledgm't of our Independence. No doubt this event 
if it takes place will give us more Credit in Europe but we pay dear for it.^ 

3 The reference is doubtless to the letter of Feb. 20 (no. 656, ante), drafted by 
a committee but signed by President Huntington. 
* Cf. nos. 658-660, ante, and no. 662, post. 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 15 ; also no. 629, note 2, ante, and Bland's letter of 
Mar. 5, in the next volume. For an account of this episode see F. A. Ogg, Opening of the 
Mississipfi, pp. 372 et seq. A letter which Madison wrote to the editor of Niles' Reg- 
ister in 1822 is pertinent here: 

" MoNTPELiER, January 8th, 1822. 

"Mr. Niles, In Ramsay's History of the American Revolution, Vol. 2, pp. 300, 301, is 
the following passage : 

" ' Mr. Jay was instructed to contend for the right of the United States to the free 
navigation of the river Mississippi; and if an express acknowledgment of it could not be 
obtained, he was restrained from acceding to any stipulation by which it should be 
relinquished. But in February, 1781, when Lord Cornwallis was making rapid progress 
in overrunning the southern States, and when the meeting of tlie Pennsylvania line, and 
other unfavorable circumstances, depressed the spirits of the Americans, Congress, on the 
recommendation of Virginia, directed him to recede from his instructions, so far as they 
insist on the free navigation of that part of the Mississippi which lies below the thirty- 
first degree of north latitude, provided such concession should be unalterably insisted on 
by Spain, and provided the free navigation of the said river, above the said degree of 
north latitude, should be acknowledged and guaranteed by his Catholic majesty, in com- 
mon with his own subjects.' 

" In this account of the instruction to Mr. Jay, to relinquish the navigation of the 
Mississippi, below the southern boundary of the United States, the measure would seem 
to have had its origin with the State of Virginia. 

" This was not the case ; and the very worthy historian, who was not at that period 
a member of Congress, was led into his error by the silence of the Journals as to what 
had passed on the subject, previous to the fifteenth of February, 1781, when they agreed 
to the instruction to make the relinquishment, as moved by the Delegates of Virginia, in 
pursuance of instructions from the Legislature. It was not unusual with the Secretary 
of Congress to commence his entries on the Journal with the stage in which the proceed- 
ings assumed a definite character ; omitting, or noting on separate and informal sheets 
orily. tlie preliminary steps. 

"The Delegates from Virginia had been long under instructions from their State, to 
insist on the right to the navigation of the Mississippi, and Congress had always included 
it in their ultimatum for peace. As late as the fourth of October, 1780, (see the Secret 
Journal of that date,) they had renewed their adherence to this point, by unanimously 
agreeing to the report of a committee to whom had been referred ' certain instructions 
to the Delegates of Virginia by their constituents, and a letter of the twenty-nintli of 
May, from Mr. Jay at Madrid', which report prohibited him from relinquishing the 



February, lySi 579 

We are abt. appointing the Officers who are to be at the head of our great 
Departments, yesterday Mr. Morris, without a vote agst. him [(] tho' 
S. A. and his Colleague, Genl. W. declined to ballot) was chosen Finan- 
ciere. I cannot say he will accept, but have some hopes he will. Our Fi- 
nances w^ant a Necker to arrange and reform them. Morris is I believe the 
best qualified of any our Country affords for the arduous undertaking. 
We shall in a day or two appoint the Officers for the foreign afifairs and 
the Marine. I wish we had ]\Ien in these Offices as well qualified to exe- 
cute them as Morris in the Treasury. Some however that are nominated if 
they can be chosen will do very well. We are under difficulties abt. the 
\\'ar Office, lest any person we could now put into it may [not] answer so 

right of the United States to the free navigation of the river Mississippi, into and from 
the sea, as asserted in his former instructions ; and on the seventeenth of the same month, 
October, (see the Secret Journal of that date), Congress agreed to the report of a com- 
mittee explaining the reasons and principles on which the instructions of the tenth of 
October were founded. 

" Shortly after this last measure of Congress, the Delegates of South Carolina and 
Georgia, seriously affected by the progress and views of the enemy in the southern 
States, and by the possibility that the interference of the great neutral powers might 
force a peace on the principle of iiti fyossidctis. whilst those States, or parts of them, 
might be in the military occupancy of Great Britain, urged with great zeal, within and 
without doors, the expediency of giving fresh vigor to the means of driving the enemy 
out of their country, by drawing Spain into an alliance, and into pecuniary succours 
believed to be unattainable without yielding our claim to the navigation of the Mississippi. 
The efforts of those Delegates did not fail to make proselytes, till at length it was ascer- 
tained that a number was disposed to vote for the measure sufficient without the vote 
of Virginia; and it happened that one of the two Delegates from that State concurred 
in the policy of what was proposed. (See letter of the twenty-fifth of November, and 
extract of the fifth of December, 1780, from J. Madison to Joseph Jones.) 

"In this posture of the business. Congress was prevailed on to postpone any final 
decision, until the Legislature of Virginia could be consulted, it being regarded by all 
as very desirable, where the powers of Congress depended so much on the individual 
wills of the States, that an important member of the Union, on a point particularly inter- 
esting to it, should receive every conciliator}' mark of respect, and it being calculated, 
also, that a change in the councils of that State might have been produced by the causes 
producing it in others. 

" A joint letter, bearing date the thirteenth of December, 1780, (which see) was 
accordingly written by the Delegates of Virginia to Governor Jefferson, to be laid before 
the Legislature then in session, simph' stating the case, and asking instructions on the 
subject, without any expression of their own opinions, which, being at variance, could 
not be expected in a letter to be signed by both. 

" The result of these communications from the Delegates was a repeal of the former 
instructions, and a transmission of different ones ; the receipt of which, according to an 
understanding when the decision of Congress was postponed, made it incumbent on the 
two Delegates to bring the subject before Congress. This they did by offering the instruc- 
tion to Mr. Jay, agreed to on the fifteenth of February, 178 1, and referred to in the 
historical passage above cited. 

" It is proper to add, that, the instant the menacing crisis was over, the Legislature of 
Virginia revoked the instruction to her Delegates to cede the navigation of the Mississippi ; 
and that Congress seized the first moment, also, for revoking theirs to Mr. Jay. 

" I have thought a statement of these circumstances due to truth ; and that its accuracy 
may be seen to depend not on memory alone, the copies of contemporary documents, 
verifying it, are annexed. 

" In the hope that this explanation may find its way to the notice of some future his- 
torian of our Revolutionary transactions, I request for it a place, if one can be afforded, 
in your Register; where it may more readily offer itself to his researches, than in publi- 
cation of more transient or miscellaneous contents. 

" With friendly respect, 

" J.\MES Madison." 



580 Continental Congress 

well as the present Commiss'rs. This may and I expect will postpone that 
appointment.^ 

With great esteem I am D'r S'r 

Yr. aff. Servt. 

Jos: Jones. 
Phila: 2 1st Febry. 1781. 

662. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, 21st Febry, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's Letter of the 6th Instant I have been honored with. 
When the Requisition was made to the States to advance six Months' Pay 
to the Troops, I foresaw the Act which the Legislature of Rhode Island 
has passed, and mentioned here, its probable Event, with the Reasons that 
would justify it; but a Discrimination could not be made with propriety, 
altho I am fully persuaded Congress are well pleased with the Measure." 
It is astonishing to consider the Energy of the Small States, compared 
with the larger ones. If all the States had fully called forth their Re- 
sources, as one State has done, the War must have been finished long 
since : However, where everything dear and sacred is in Question too 
much cannot be done by any. 

We are certainly informed that a body of troops from Great Britain 
or Ireland, have landed at Cape Fear, No. Carolina, said to amount to 
upwards of two thousand, under command of Gen. Prevost. This Event 
is convincing that the Seat of War is transferred to the Southward. Our 
total want of Money renders every Attempt to render the southern or any 
other Department respectable or efificacious. But very little of the four- 
Tenths is brot in — None from our State Capt. Jones has arrived 

from France in the Ariel, and brings no important despatches; has twenty 
Tuns of powder, but no Clothing. A strange fatality seems to attend that 
Article. I hope the Censure will soon be rightly placed, and that vengeance 
may follow upon its Heels. Inquiries of this kind are difficult, and where 
old Members have their Attachments and Aversions fixed, either through 
Cabal, Party intrigue, or honest or mistaken Bias, the Obstacles are pro- 
portionably increased.^ 

^ See nos. 621, 623, ante ; also the letters of Sullivan to Washington Mar. 6, 
McDougall to Clinton Mar. 12, Houston to McKean Mar. 31, in the next volume. 
" S. A." and " Genl. W." are Samuel Adams and Artemas Ward. Sparks quotes (Writ- 
ings of Washington, VII. 400 n.) the remarks of Luzerne in a letter Mar. 25 to Ver- 
gennes : 

" Divisions prevail in Congress about the new mode of transacting business by secre- 
taries of different departments. Samuel Adams, whose obstinate and resolute character 
was so useful to the revolution in its origin, but who shows himself very ill suited to 
the conduct of affairs in an organized government, has placed himself at the head of the 
advocates for the old system of committees of Congress, instead of relying on ministers, 
or secretaries, according to the new arrangement." 

[662]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 26; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 330. 

2 See the circular letter of Jan. 15 (the Journals) ; also Knox to Washington 
Feb. 7, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 222. 

3 Cf. nos. 659-661, ante. 



February, 1781 581 

We expect a few clays will undoubtedly produce a Ratification of the 
Act of Confederation. I must therefore repeat the Necessity of two ]\Iem- 
bers. Estimates are nearly finished of the Debts of the United States, as 
far as they can be precisely known, of the Expences necessary for the 
present Year, and the \\'ays and Means appropriated to meet them.* I 
believe Copies will very soon be sent to the respective States. However, 
Rhode Island shall not want Information in that Respect. 

I am, sir, with every Sentiment of Esteem, 

your Excellency's most obt. servt. 

J M. Varnum 

663. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia feby. 24 1781.^ 
Dear Sir, 

Yr. favor by Col. Livingston, w'ith 2 packets came to hand this morn- 
ing : I shall endeavour to execute yr. orders in a few days. We are under 
a considerable degree of anxiety about the state of affairs in North Caro- 
lina 

The Confederation will be subscribed (Mr. Hanson being here) on 
next Thursday and Congress having postpond it to that day, in order to 
announce it properly.® 

664. Thomas Rodney, Diary. ^ 

Philadelphia Monday Feby 26th, lySi. This day I took my Seat in 
Congress for the First Time — Munday Tuesday and Wednesday was im- 
ploy'd in the usual business.^ 

* See the Journals. Feb. 7, 17, 19, Apr. 5, 18. 
[663]! Md. Hist. Soc. Red Book, V. 51. 

2 Cyrus Griffin, now a member of the Court of Appeals, addressed a letter, Feb. 24, 
to the speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates with regard to the adjustment of his 
account as delegate to Congress the preceding year, which a committee of that body had 
declared to be extravagant. A copy of the letter (from the original, at one time in posses- 
sion of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia) is in possession of the Carnegie Institu- 
tion. Feb. 25 Meriwether Smith, who had taken his seat in Congress Feb. 20 (he had 
written to Governor JeflFerson from Fredericksburg Feb. 4, " on the road to Congress " ; 
Va. State Lib., Exec. Papers), was having even more serious trouble over his account 
for the years 1778 and 1779 (see vol. IV., no. 571, note 2). Feb. 25 he wrote a long 
letter to the speaker of the House of Delegates with regard to the matter. This letter 
was in the collection of the late James H. Manning of Albany. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 12, 22-24; also nos. 659, 662, ante, and nos. 669, 672, post. 
[664]^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 This is the only entry which Rodney made in his Diary in the month of Feb- 
ruary. Beginning Mar. i he kept extensive notes of proceedings for several days, until 
they were interrupted by an absence. On his return to Congress he resumed his 
elaborate note-taking ; but, like most of his predecessors and successors who began 
to keep such records, he soon tired of it or found it impracticable. 



582 Continental Congress 

665. The President of Congress to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed)/ 

Philadelphia, February 26, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed a resolution of Congress of the 
20tli Instant, relative to the Recruiting and Destination of the Troops 
that are ordered to compose the southern Army, including the Pennsyl- 
vania Line, except such as are on Command on the western Frontier. 

This resolution hath been accidentally mislaid in the Secretary's Office 
several Days, which hath occasioned a Delay in forwarding the same to 
your Excellency. It is hoped this Delay will not prove injurious.^ 

666. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia February 26, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, the Extract of a Resolve of the 
23d Instant, requesting the State of Maryland to advance to Lt. Colonel 
Forrest, on Account of the Ignited States, a Sum equal to seven Years 
half pay of a Lieut. Colonel, in Lieu of the half pay he might otherwise 
have been entitled to during his natural Life 

Upon the Resignation of this Officer, Congress have thought proper, 
in Consideration of his past Services, and particular Misfortune of the 
Loss of a Limb in the public Service, to grant him the Benefits and Emolu- 
ments contained in the enclosed Resolution.^ 

667. The President of Congress to John Hancock.^ 

Philada. February 27, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am desired to transmit your Excellency the foregoing Duplicate with 
the Resolve enclosed, from the Apprehension that the Original had mis- 
carried having never been honored with any Advice on the Subject. 

N. B. The Original is recorded — date November 11, 1779." 

[665]! Pa. .Irch., first ser., VIII. 744; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
p. 241. 

- See Reed to the delegates Feb. 26, Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 745. 

[666] ^Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, VIII. 52; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 241. 

2 The following note (in a different hand) is appended: "The enclosed Resolve 
sent to Colo. Forrest by Mr. Stoddert." 

[667] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 242. 

-The letter of Nov. 11, 1779, transmitted to Hancock the resolve of Nov. 8 
preceding, requesting " that the late and former presidents of Congress, be desired to 
lodge, as soon as they conveniently can, in the secretary's office, copies of all public 
letters by them respectively written during their presidentships ". If Hancock made any 
response to this second request it has not been discovered. After his death his letter- 
books as President of Congress came into the possession of the Massachusetts Histori- 
cal Society. Copies of these letters were made by Peter Force, when gathering materials 
for the American Archives, and these have since been in official possession of the gov- 
ernment. In 1924 the Massachusetts Historical Society transferred to the Library of 
Congress the original letter-books. 



February, lySi 583 

668. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (John Hancock).^ 

Sir, 

W^e beg Leave to communicate to the honorable Senate and House of 
Representatives a Circumstance which for some Time past has kept us in 
a State of Anxiety. 

The Secretary duely transmitted the Credentials of our Reappointment 
in the Month of October under the same Regulations for Attendance here 
and Voting in Congress as were our Rule the last year : But, he has since 
forwarded an Act passed November 21st by which not less than three of 
the Delegates can make a Representation of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts. 

As we were informed that Oeconomy alone originated the latter Act 
we ventured to suppress it from being entered on the Records of Congress, 
where it would operate against the Interest of our Constituents, would 
not help the Reputation of our absent Colleagues, and would cast a com- 
paritive Stigma on our own. For, it would put the Vote of Massachu- 
setts to a trebly increased Risque from our Sickness and other temporary 
Incapacity to be present in Congress ; It would not repeal the former 
Order for a fourth to be upon the Business of the Delegation; and it 
would put the zvhole Three now here only on a par with one from New 
Hampshire Rhode Island and Delaware or with two from those and other 
States, when the Accession of Maryland shall be recorded here. 

\\' e satisfied ourselves with hinting this Matter to the Gentlemen who 
have lately returned Home from joint Duty with Us, and who are now in 
the General Assembly : But, we apprehend they may find more Difficulty 
in obtaining a new Act for regulating the Delegation than we shall in 
obtaining the Sense of the Assembly in a Letter from the Governor, to 
Sanctify our Continuance in the Suppression which began from our 
zeal to preserve the Opportunities of being the most useful to our 
Constituents.^ 

With Sentiments of the greatest Respect for the General Assembly we 
submit ourselves 

Saml. Adams 
James Lovell 
Artemas Ward 
Philadelphia February 27th 1781. 

669. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Phila : 27th Febr 1781. 
D'r S'r, 

I missed the opportunity by the Express of sending you the Letter of 
the 2 1 St which is now inclosed - .... I was concerned when I came to 
Congress to hear so small a favor was refused Genl. Greene then going 

[668]iMass. Arch., CCIII. 235 (in Lovell's writing; autographic signatures). 

2 See nos. 550, 573, ante; also Lovell to Gerry Mar. 20, in the next volume. 
[669]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 66, vol. L, p. 291; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 70. 

- No. 661, ante. 

42 



584 Continental Congress 

to his new Command as that of granting his request respecting Dr. Mc- 
Henry. from my conversation with Gentlemen on the subject many think 
the Genl. sho'd have been indulged and if it can be done the question will 
probably be revived. This however the Dr. sho'd not be acquainted with, 
least the attempt sho'd be unsuccessfully Thursday next is appointed for 
the Maryland delegates to subscribe the Articles of Confederation, an 
event that cannot fail to produce happy consequences both at Home and 
abroad, the Articles it is certain are defective and amendments and addi- 
tional powers are necessary and these will and must be speedily proposed 
to the States for their concurrence and no time perhaps [is] more con- 
venient for their meeting the attention and approbation of the States than 
the present when they are generally convinced of the want of full powers 
and are disposed to grant them. Any defects that have occurred to you 
and no doubt many have from your situation and long service you will 
oblige me in pointing out when you have leisure to write a few lines on 
the subject. It is of importance to make the articles of our Union as com- 
pleat as may be and adequate to the great objects of the Confederacy or 
we shall suffer from internal divisions and foreign machinations.* .... 

6/0. AViLLiAM Sharpe to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 27th 1781. 
Sir, 

Your thanks to me expressed in a letter which was read in Congress 
yesterday, for a few notes on the geography of the back parts of South 
and North Carolina was very flattering. 

For your farther information I shall now add - . . . . 

2 Greene's request to have Dr. James McHenry as an aide-de-camp had been 
presented to Congress Oct. 30, and a motion to grant it was made by Scott of New 
York and seconded by John Henry of Maryland. On the demand of Theodorick Bland 
the yeas and nays were taken, and the measure was negatived by a vote of seven states 
against five, the New England states and New Jersey voting solidly in the negative, 
while even Maryland and Virginia voted two to one against the motion. The affirmative 
votes in the delegations of these two states were by Henry and Madison, respectively. 
Motte of South Carolina also voted in the negative. The committee on Washington's 
letter of Dec. 20, appointed Jan. i, reported Mar. 8 in favor of giving Dr. James 
McHenry a commission as major. The resolve was adopted May 25. See no. 571, 
ante; also Sullivan to Washington Mar. 9, in the next volume. 

"* See no. 663, note 3, ante ; also Bland's letter of Mar. 5, in the next volume ; 
cf. no. 672, post. With regard to alterations of the Articles of Confederation see the 
Journals, Mar. 6 (p. 236, note 2), May 2, July 20, Aug. 22; also no. 627, ante, and the 
letters of Cornell Mar. 5, Varnum Mar. 16 and Apr. 2, in the next volume. A discussion 
of the problem, with numerous references, is in Bancroft, Hist. Const., vol. I., ch. I. 
(especially pp. 21 et seq.). A letter (without date) from Washington to Jefferson, 
Pendleton, and Wythe on the subject is in Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), I. 81. One dated 
Mar. 27 to Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, is in Va. 
State Library, Executive Papers. 

[670]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The notes on the back parts of North and South Carolina had been sent to Wash- 
ington Feb 9, with a letter from President Huntington of that date. In this letter of 
Feb. 27 he gives additional information on the subject. The letter of Washington which 
was read in Congress Feb. 26 was that of Feb. 17, but as printed (Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 
145, ed. Sparks, VII. 415) it does not contain the passage to which Sharpe alludes. That 
passage, which follows the reference to the " successful strokes upon Ferguson and 
Tarleton ", is as follows, " Be pleased to return my thanks to Mr. Sharpe for his descrip- 
tion of the Western parts of So. Carolina ". 



February, i/Si 585 

671. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, 27th February, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Our accounts from General Cornwallis are very alarming, but 
we hope it will not be long before both he and Arnold will repent of their 
rashness. Congress are not inattentive to the state of the Southern States, 
but the unfortunate mutinies in the Army, and other unavoidable accidents 
have prevented them sending on more Troops, and put it out of their 
power to make such ample provision for those that were sent as would have 

been wished General Washington will not neglect the relief of 

North Carolina, when circumstances will admit. I dare not be more par- 
ticular, but hope before this reaches you, Arnold's fate will be decided.^ 



672. John Sullivan and James Mitchell Varnum, 
Representation to Congress.^ 

To the honorable the Congress of the United States 

The subscribers being the only delegates from the States of Newhamp- 
shire and Rhode Island, beg leave to represent that untill the ratification 
of the confederation their States will be constitutionally represented, that 
by the same being ratified agreeably to the late determination of Congress 
those States will be unrepresented. That foreseeing this they moved in 
Congress to postpone the ratification in order that their States might be 
notified to complete their representation but did not prevail. They carmot 
however justify themselves to their constituents without representing to 
Congress the injury which will be done to their States by depriving them 
of a representation without giving them an opportunity of furnishing one 
agreeable to the articles of confederation. Three things remaining in the 
power of Congress, They in behalf of their States request that one of 
them may be adopted to prevent the injustice which will otherwise take 
place vis. postponing the ratification of the confederation, adjourning 
Congress and appointing a committee consisting of one member from each 
State to sit in the recess of Congress, or to resolve that time shall be given 
to their States to complete their representation, the articles of confedera- 
tion notwithstanding.^ 

Jno. Sullivan 
J. M. Varnum 
Philadelphia Feby. 28th, 1781. 

[67i]iMcRee, Life of Iredell, I. 490. 

2 Cf. nos. 655, 656, 660, ante. 
[672]! Library of Congress. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 43, f. 187. 

2 This representation was read in Congress Mar. i. See also the Journals, Mar. 2, 
and Thomas Rodney's Diary Mar. 2, in the next volume. 
