
I. Thomas Rodney to Mrs. Rodney.^ 
^.. 2 Philada. March i, 1781. 

I wrote a few lines this morning and just sett down now to Tell you 
that the Grand Confederation of the States was this day Completed. At 
Ten O'clock we had a eolation at the President of Congress's and at five 
I dined at Mr. McKeans with the President and Vice President of this 
State and a number of members of Congress and Other Gentlemen and 
this evening we had a grand exhibition of fire works at the State House, 
and another on board of Paul Jones Ship — and indeed all the day has 
been spent in rejoicing. 

Expect to go out to board tomorrow and in a few days after according 
to his custom, shall probably be waited on by the Minister of France — so 
that you see a Member of Congress is now no small Man and yet I feel 
no Change in my self, and all these flattering enjoyments would be too 
weak to keep me here if the laws of My Country did not coincide with 

^"^ Thomas Rodney 

2. Thomas Rodney, Diary. ^ 

[March i, 1781.] 
On thirsday being the first of March the Confederation of the United 
States was finally established in Congress to be perpetual, being first 
Considered and acceeded to by the Legislatures of all the States — by a 
Signal given at the State House the Completion of this grand Union and 
Confederation was announced by Firing thirteen Cannon on the Hill And 
the same number on board Captn. Paul Jones Frigate in the Harbour. 
At Two OClock the Members of Congress, the Members of the General 
assembly of Pensylvania, the President and Council of that State, the 
officers of the Army in Town, the officers of state and a great number 
of Gentlemen waited on the President of Congress to Congratulate him 
on this occasion; and partook of a Collation prepaired at his House for 
that purpose. In the evening there was a grand exhibition of fireworks 
at the State House, and also on board Paul Jones Frigate in the Harbour, 
and all the vessels in the Harbour were Decorated and illuminated on this 
occasion and great joy appeared in every Countenance but those of the 
Disaffected." 

[i]i Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Hiila- 
delphia (see Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1328, item 334) ; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 683, item 
270. 

-Such (if the copyist has not erred) is the salutation; nevertheless the letter is 
addressed, " Mrs. Elizabeth Rodney Wilmington by John ". 
[2]^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

- There is an account of the celebration in the Pennsylvania Packet of Mar. 3 and 
also in the Pennsylvania Gazette of Mar. 7. The Packet says : 

" Thursday, the first of March, will be a day memorable in the annals of America to the 
latest posterity, for the final ratification in Congress of the articles of confederation and 
perpetual union between these states. 

I 



2 Continental Congress 

3. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) 
TO THE Several States.' 

Circular. Philadelphia March 2, 1781. 

Sir, 

By the Act of Congress herewith enclosed your Kxcellency will be in- 
formed, that the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union between 
the thirteen United States are formally and finally ratified by all the States 

We are happy to congratulate our Constituents on this important Event, 
desired by our Friends but dreaded by our Enemies. 

4. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney.' 

Phila. Mar. 2, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... Upon the Confederation being Confirmed New Hamshire and 
Rhode Island having each but one member therefore became unrepre- 

" This great event, which will confound our enemies, fortify us against their arts of 
seduction, and frustrate their plans of division, was announced to the public at twelve 
o'clock under the discharge of the artillery on the land, and the cannon of the shipping in 
the Delaware. The bells were rung, and every manifestation of joy shewn on the 
occasion." 

There follows an account of the feu de joye, the President's reception (with the cold 
collation), and the fire- works in the evening. "Thus America", the account continues. 
" like a well constructed arch, whose parts, harmonizing and mutually supporting each 
other, are the more closely united the greater the pressure upon them, is growing up in 
war into greatness and consequence among the nations. But Britain's boasted wealth and 
grandeur are crumbling to pieces, never again to be united .... and, if she persists in her 
present self-destroying systems, there will be a time when scarcely a monument of her 
former glory will remain. The fragments of her empire, and its history, will then be of 
little other use to mankind, but, like a ruined tower on a dreary coast, to serve as a land- 
mark to warn against the shoals on which her political navigators had shipwrecked that 
infatuated nation." 

The Gazette, making free use of the phraseology of the Packet, elaborates upon the 
latter's account, in thought as well as in description. After a few remarks upon the ratifica- 
tion, " by which act the Confederation of The United States of America was com- 
pleated ", the Gazette says : 

" This happy event was immediately announced to the public by the discharge of the 
artillery on land, and the cannon of the shipping in the river Delaware. 

"At two o'clock his Excellency the President of Congress received on this occasion the 
congratulations of the Hon. the Minister Plenipotentiary of France, and the Legislative 
and Executive Bodies of this State, of the Civil and Military Officers, sundry strangers 
of distinction in town, and many of the principal inhabitants. 

" The evening was closed by an elegant exhibition of fire works. The Ariel frigate, 
commanded by the gallant John Paul Jones, fired a feu de joye, and was beautifully 
decorated with a variety of streamers in the day, and ornamented with a brilliant appear- 
ance of lights in the night. 

" Thus will the first of March, 1781, be a day memorable in the annals of America, for 
the final ratification of the Confederation and perpetual Union of the Thirteen States of 
America — A Union, begun by necessity, cemented by oppression and common danger, and 
now finally consolidated into a perpetual confederacy of these new and rising States : 
And thus the United States of America, having amidst the calamities of a destructive war, 
established a solid foundation of greatness, are trrowing up into consequence among the 
nations, while their haughty enemy, Britain, with all her boasted wealth and grandeur, 
instead of bringing them to her feet and reducing them to unconditional submission, finds 
her hopes blasted, her power crumbling to pieces, and the empire which, with overbearing 
insolence and brutality she exercised on the ocean, divided among her insulted neighbours." 

[3]iVa. State Lib., Executive Papers; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIIL 54; Arch, of 
Md.. XLVn. 99; Mass. Arch., CCIII. 242; N. J. State Lib.; Library of Congress, Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book, p. 245 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., VHL 751. 

[4]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession or Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 474 (extract). 



March, lySi 3 

sented ; they thought it so essential that they moved Congress to adjourn 
appointing a Committee of the States to sit till they Could be represented. 
Yesterday the Confederation was finally ratified and Confirmed. At 
two O'clock we had a Colation at the President of Congress's. At five 
I Dined at Mr. McKean's with the President and Vice-President and 
twenty members of assembly of this State and Sundry Members of Con- 
gress and others.- Thus you hear this Situation is not yet without the 
flattering inducements of Good Company and Good Living 

5. Thomas Rodney, Diary. ^ 

[March 2, 3, 1781.] 
March 2d. The States of Newhamshire and Rhode Island having each 
but one member in Congress, they became unrepresented by the Confirma- 
tion of the Confederation — By which not more than seven nor less than 
two members is allowed to represent any state. Whereupon General 
Sulivan, Deligate from Newhamshire moved, That Congress would ap- 
ix)int a Committee of the States, and adjourn till more States Could send 
forward a sufficient number of Deligates to represent them, Or that 
they would allow those Deligates now in Congress to give the Vote of 
the States 'till one more from each of those States was sent to Congress 
to make their representation Complete. He alledged that it was but just 
for Congress to do one or the other of them, for that the act of Congress 
by compleating the Confederation au't not to deprive those States of their 
representation without giving them due Notice, or their representation 
was Complete before, and that they did not know when the Confederation 
would be Completed. Therefore if the Confederation put it out of the 
power of Congress to allow the States [to]vote in Congress because there 
was but one Member from each [of] them. They aught in justice to those 
States to appoint a Committee of the States, in which they would have 
an Equal Voice. This Motion was seconded by Genl. Vernon from 
Rhode Island and inforced by Arguments to the same purpose.^ 

But all their Arguments were ablely confuted by Mr. Burke of N. C. 
and others, and the absurdity of the motion fully pointed out, so that 
the question passed off without a Division. But it was the general 
Opinion of Congress that those Members might Continue to sit in 
Congress and Debate and Serve on Committees tho they Could not give 
the Vote of their States. 

March 5. Saturday Not being in Congress I did not hear the debates 
of this day but the only question of importance was " that those Members 

2 Cf. nos. I, 2, ante. Peter Devaux wrote to General Gates from Philadelphia Mar. 2 : 
" Yesterday the Confederation was signed, by the Maryland Delegates, and a discharge of 
thirteen pieces of canon followed, a Salute from Comadore Jones and Nicholsons ships, 

congratulating Congress on this happy event P. S. The Houses of Two Georgians 

was eluniinated last Night and rejoicing that the Confederation is settled, and only five 
other Houses was lighted in all this City." N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIX. 
[5]! Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

- Sullivan's motion, noted as "passed in the negative", is in the Journals (p. 229). 
See also the representation of Sullivan and Varnum Feb. 28 (vol. V., no. 672), and the 
motion of Duane, recorded in the Journals under Mar. 2 (p. 224 n.). See also nos. 10 
(note 2), II, l>ost. 



4 Continental Congress 

who had served three years were now by the Confederation inellegeable " 
but the question was lost by passing off without a Division so that no 
Vote was entered about it and the old Members Continued of Course — 
It being the general sense of Congress that the Term of three years in- 
tended Should Commence with the Confederation. 

6. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia March the 3d 1781. 

Did I, my D'r General, consult forms in those attachments which my 
Judgment is proud in having adopted, this letter would contain little but 
appology in not having earlier acknowledged the oblidging favours with 
which you have honoured me. My constitution is of a different mould. 
I could only therefore look forward to a character with veneration, which 
I could not pleasantly address : and amidst those publick and domestick 
troubles, which united to assail the virtuous mind, a heartfelt Sympathy 
was not the Smallest, among the poor ornaments of my mind. 

It is with uncommon satisfaction I see you rise superior to the throws 
of hazard, not over clouded by strokes, which must have strongly affected 
the parent and heretofore Successful General. It gives a preeminence to 
that Station in which you was placed, when Congress bestowed with so 
much Justice, its highest honours and marks of Esteem on the victorious 
General at Saratoga 

The Confederation was finally ratified on Thursday last. Major De- 
veaux who intends shortly for Berkely county, will furnish me an 
opportunity of Writing more at large and commencing that regular 
correspondence from which I will draw much Satisfaction and use. 

I am pleased with the Expectation of seeing you in Philadelphia the 
beginning of April, by that time important Events will await our Southern 
operation 

7. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia March 4, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Act of the third 
Instant of the Measures Congress have adopted for the Removal of the 
Convention Troops into the State of Pennsylvania. The like Information 
is transmitted to Governor Lee and the President of Pennsylvania. 

I have also informed Governor Lee, that should your Excellency find 
it necessary to order the Prisoners taken at the Cowpens to move North- 
ward through Virginia, as intimated in your late Advice to me, He 
(Governor Lee) must consider them as included with the other Prisoners 
and give Orders accordingly 

[61^ N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, box i6, no. 18. 

[7P Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
p. 246. 



March, 1781 5 

It is necessary that the Executive of Maryland, or the Commanding 
Officer have seasonable Notice that they may be prepared to receive the 
Prisoners when they arrive on the Borders of ^Maryland." 

8. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

<^. Philada. March 4, 1781. 

By the enclosed Act of Congress of the third Instant your Excellency 
will be informed that all the Convention Troops both in Virginia and 
Maryland are to be removed to Yorktown and Lancaster, or such other 
Places in the State of Pennsylvania as the Executive of that State shall 
assign for their Reception; and the State of Maryland is requested to 
superintend the Removal, safe keeping and Supply of the German Corps 
from Nolands Ferry on the Potowmack, and the British now at Frederick 
Town, through Maryland to the Borders of Pennsylvania, and to continue 
the Guards until the British Prisoners arrive at Yorktown and the Ger- 
mans at Lancaster, or such other Places as the Executive of Pennsylvania 
shall appoint for their Reception. The Supplies both for the Prisoners 
and Escort are to be furnished by Pennsylvania after they arrive within 
the Borders of that State. 

If the Prisoners taken by Generall Morgan in the Action at the Cowpens 
should be removed to the Northward through Virginia, it is necessary 
to include them also 

I need not point out to your Excellency the Necessity and Importance 
of supplying a sufficient Guard and especially a Conmianding Officer equal 
to the Task to prevent Desertion or any other Impediment to the Exe- 
cution of these Orders 

I suppose the Prisoners in Virginia are now on their Way to Nowlands 
Ferry, as Governor Jefferson hath already advised me that the Situation 
of Affairs in that State compelled him to put them in Motion, and I have 
desired him to give your Excellency the earliest Notice of their Movement 
that a Guard might be ready prepared to receive them at the Borders of 
Maryland 

It will also be necessary that President Reed have previous seasonable 
Notice of the Time when the Prisoners will enter the State of Penn- 
sylvania.^ 

9, James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry.^ 
D'r S'r, March 5, 1781. 

.... We have nothing of Decision from the Southward that can be 
depended on; for, tho' Govr. Jefferson writes on the 26th that Corn- 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 24, 26, Mar. 3, 6. 14, 15, 22, 23 ; also no. 8, post; cf. Reed to 
the Pennsylvania delegates and to the assembly Mar. 5, Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 757, 
758. On the whole subject of the removal of the Convention prisoners see Official Letters 
of the Governors of P'irginia, II., passim (index. Convention Troops). 

[8] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 245; Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book 
VII. 2; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 105. 

- See no. 7, ante ; also Arch, of Md.. XLW 353, 355. 357. 

[9]! The original letter is in the private collection of Mrs. Annette Townsend Phillips, 
of Goshen, N. Y., a descendant of Elbridge Gerry, and is here published by her generous 
permission. 



6 Continental Congress 

wallis was retreating as rapidly as he had advanced, yet he mixes some 
Circumstances that we know are not true. Genl. Green wrote on the 15 
that he himself had crossed the Dan without any Loss of Men or Baggage, 
but that he was not in condition to oppose the Enemy at all the Fords 
which would that Evening be passable and therefore he should not attempt 
to do it at any. that the militia were not coming to reinforce him and 
some were even leaving him, that his own Troops were in fine Spirits 
though they might be tracked by their bloody Feet, Govr. Jeflferson says 
Cornwallis was retreating towards Hilsborough, and that Genl. Caswell 
was in his Rear with 4000 I think this probable from knowing Caswell's 
Influence; but it is a vile toryish Country from Hilsborough to Cape 
Fear so that the 4000 will not grow. The Enemy are 3,250, but if actually 
on the Retreat, the Hessian Brigade will as usual lose much of its Strength 
by Desertions. 

Mulenberg was within 4 miles of Newport with 4000 and his advance 
within ^ mile he had two Mortars and had picked off several Centinels 
and taken some Waggons. He thinks he shall be able to give a good 
account of Arnold. Baron Steuben had left that Quarter, and gone with 
500 Continentals and some Rifle Men to Strengthen Genl. Green. - 

Perhaps a more regular acct. will be in the print Tomorrow. 

I am not very well, and have other Letters to scratch ^ 

2 The letters of Jeflferson and Greene were read Mar. 5. That of Jeflferson is in 
Official Letters, II. 373, and Writings (ed. Ford), II. 469. 

3 Occasion is here taken to oflfer needed elucidation of a small paragraph in Lovell's 
letter to Gerry Nov. 20, 1780 (vol. V., no. 518), a paragraph that gave rise to some per- 
plexity at the time the letter appeared in print. That paragraph is as follows : 

" I will endeavor to get some Decency for Gen. W if it is only plump Denial of 

Justice. Perhaps as Mr. Matlac is joined to Mr. Fell there may be neither Denial nor 
Equivocation." 

In that part of his letter immediately preceding this paragraph Lovell had three times 

used the abbreviation " Gen. W ", unmistakably for General Washington. It was not 

an unnatural assumption that likewise, in the paragraph quoted, " Gen. W " meant 

General Washington. Washington assumed that it did (see Lovell to Pickering Feb. 5, 
1781, vol. v., no. 634), and even (^rry himself, to whom the letter was addressed, took 
it for granted that the reference was to General Washington, but remarked in his letter to 
Washington, Feb. 7, 1781 (ibid., note 2), "The Paragraph in Mr. Lovell's letter sub- 
sequent to the Motion, is so enigmatical, that I have no Idea of his Intention, whether 
favorable or not." 

The key to the mystery has been supplied by Mr. Charles Warren, who has kindly 
furnished the following extract from Gerry's letter to Lovell Nov. 6 (found in Mass. Hist. 
Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 60, XVI. 680) : 

" General Warren has an Account open with the Commercial Committee, wherein there 
is a considerable balance due to him for services and money advanced to the Public ; and 
he thinks he is 'injuriously treated' by their delaying an adjustment. He has repeatedly 
desired me; to write on the subject; but not knowing the names of the members of that 
Committee, I cannot address a private letter to either of them; and if your numerous 
engagements will admit of it, wish you would urge them to a speedy settlement, as well for 
preserving the honor of Congress, as for promoting public justice." 

Just as this volume is on the point of going to press the editor has received, through 
the courtesy of Mrs. Annette Townsend Phillips, who had furnished the copy of Lovell's 
letter of Mar. 5, another letter from Lovell to Gerry, dated Feb. 20, 1781, which contains 
a passage relative to the controversial matters in his letter of Nov. 20, 1780. The 
pertinent passage follows : 

" I understood from Pickering that the Com'der in Chief had been ' much agitated at 
what I said of Genl. W.' That was silly for it could not be forced to mean Washington. 
It was a direct Answer to your Request about Genl. Warren's Accounts vizt. ' I will 

endeavor to obtain some decency for Genl. W if it is only plump denial of Justice. 

but as Mr. Matlac is joined to Mr. Fell perhaps there may be neither denial nor Equivoca- 
tion.' 



March, 1781 7 

10. Theodorick Bland to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia March 5th 1781. 
D'r S'r, 

.... The Confederation was signed and completely ratified on 
thursday last, and was accompanied with every demonstration of Joy by 
all ranks of People in this Place." I thought I had acknowledged the Rect 
of yrs. enclosing Col. Masons Sentiments.^ I have little doubt of the 
Grant's being accepted by Congress on the terms mentioned in the act of 
Cession which I see nearly corresponds with those in that Paper. I believe 
the Covert manoeuvers of the land Jobbing Companies are so well known, 
and so fully discovered, that few of their abettors will be hardy enough 
to oppose it in its fullest latitude.* Congress seems at this time more 
Unanimous, and less torn by factions than (from the best Information 
I can obtain from the Oldest Members) it has ever been since its first 
meeting 

II. Thomas Rodney, Diary.^ 

Munday March 5th 1781. when we came to do business this Morning 
it was proposed by the President that Congress should determine what 



" Your Suggestion is more pardonable. 'A curious motion the Product of some Months 
Study in the Jersies.' The mover had been some months there. The main Arguments I 
used against it were the Indelicacy and Injustice of it as it regarded the Genl. who would 
either take a mortal Disgust at us for passing it or if he was as weak as the movers 
would be ruined by his acceptance of such an uncouth and unproductive a Commission. 
Indeed, Sir, you are just in your Opinion of me. I have a great Regard for his Excellency 
But it does not show itself in all the Ways of some other Men, for I can hear a pious 
Body say ' We have had a mild Winter Thanks to God' without putting my addition of 
■ and to Genl. Washitigton '." This letter is now in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Townsend-Gerry 
Papers, from the collection of Mrs. Annette Townsend Phillips. 
[10]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 Ezekiel Cornell wrote Governor Greene of Rhode Island Mar. 5 : 
" The confederation was compleated last Thursday at 12 o'clock and at the same time 
announced by the discharge of a Number of Cannon both on the land and on the delaware 
the Bells in the City were rung, the President of Congress gave a general Invitation to the 
Members of Congress, the President of the State, his Council, and the house of Assembly, 
the civil and Military officers of Congress, to wait upon him at his own house at 2 o'clock, 
.\. M. [sic] where they partook of a cold collation. In the afternoon Capt. Jones fired a 
Fue de joy, on Board the Ariel. In the evening a Number of fireworks were played off and 
the whole concluded in the greatest harmony to the great satisfaction of every true friend 
to his country, and mortification of the infamous toreys who have long plumed themselves 
with the vain hopes that our Union would soon Crumble to pieces. Our State was not 
represented. It would have been agreeable to Congress that I should have resumed my 
seat untill a Delegate should have come forward but as the thoughts of any alteration 
in the Board of War during the next campaign is laid aside, it was thought most to the 
publick advantage I should remain at the Board which I have agreed to. I hope my con- 
duct will be agreeable to the State as I can assure you I was not guided in my conduct 

so much by sinister views as the publick good Congress have some debates on 

the meaning and Spirit of certain paragraphs of the Confederation, they have determined 
this day that no question shall be finally passed upon, unless agreed to by seven states at 
least." R. I. Arch.. Letters to the Governors ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 332. 

Respecting the last statement see no. 11, post. The Journals do not record such an 
explicit resolve ; but see under Mar. 6 ; cf. no. 5, ante. 

8 A letter from Lee to Bland Oct. 31, 1780, is in Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), II. 208; but that does not appear to be the letter here referred to. 

* See vol. v., no. 629, and nos. 11, 24, post. 
[ii]i Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 



8 Continental Congress 

number of States in Congress assembled was Competent to do business. 
This brought on a long and Learned Debate. It was argued by Mr. Duane 

of N. Y. Mr. of Connecticut, Mr. Madison of Virginia, Mr. 

Lovel of Massachusets, Mr. Root and Mr. VVeathersix)on of Jersey, and 
Mr. McKean of Delaware, That, as the Confederation had enumerated 
sundry things which should not be done but by the assent of nine States, 
and that no other question (except for adjourning from day to day) 
should be determined unless by the Votes of a Majority of the United 
States in Congress assembled, It was evident that the Confederation in- 
tended nine States should be a Corum to do business and that a Majority 
of the nine (vizt. five) was sufficient to determine any Matter Except 
the Matters enumerated as above mentioned. That unless this Construc- 
tion was put on the Clause would not be able to do much and Instances 
of the Practice of the Brittish Parliament and that of Corporations were 
introduced to inforce these arguments and much fine reasoning and 
Sophistry not much to the Honour or Credit of those on this Side of the 
question was made use of — and indeed no Species of artful reasoning 
within the reach of a Law[y]er was left untried on this Occasion. Here 
we had an opertunity of seeing that Maxim verified " that all men would 
be Tyrants if they Could git the power " and I must Confess I was 
Sorry to see such a Keen Strugle to increase the power of Congress 
beyond what the States Intended so early as but the third day after 
Completing the Confederation. But all their Arguments were so fully 
answered by Mr. Burke of N. Carolina that Mr. [ ] " of Connecticut 

came over to the same opinion. Mr. Burke Contended that the assent 
of seven States (a majority of the united States) was necessary to 
determine every question in Congress except adjourning — he said he well 
remembered the arguments and the gentlemen who advanced them on 
this subject, when the Confederation was formed ; that the matter was 
then fully debated and that it was the sense of Congress at that time 
that less than a Majority of the States should not determine any question 
in Congress, that Majority at present is seven, but that the reason why- 
Congress Chose to Mention the Majority instead of the number Seven 
which at present is a Majority was because they expected that Canada 
would acceed to the Confederation and in that Case seven would have 
Ceased to be the Majority, and that the Clause was in such plain and 
explicit language that he Could not see how it should or Could be Under- 
stood other ways. That if the Matter was determined otherwise, it would 
put it in the power of a minority of five States by entering into a junto 
or Cabal to ruin the Majority of Eight, That it was Contrary to all 
Compacts of Sivil Society for the Minority to rule the Majority, but 
that if this question was determined as the other gentlemen wished, it 
would often be the Case in the united States, whenever it hapen'd that 
two or more of the States were not represented in Congress. But he 
said let Congress pretend to determine as they would they Could not 

2 The delegates from Connecticut were Jesse Root and Oliver Wolcott. As Root is 
definitely mentioned by name (although assigned to New Jersey; see no. 20, post) 
" Mr. " is doubtless Wolcott. 



March, 1781 9 

destroy the force of the Confederation, that if they attempted so early 
to Claim powers that were not expressly given by that Charter or began 
to pervert it to increas[e] their power they would give a dreadfuU alarm 
to their Constituents who are so jealous of their Liberty. Col. Blann of 
Virginia, Mr. Mathews of S. Carolina coincided with Mr. Burk. but 
the opposite party replied that the Clause Could not mean a Majority of 
all the United States but that the plain and obvious Meaning of the words 
was a Majority of such States as should be from time to time represented 
in Congress Thus all the stress of the argument on their side lay in the 
Construction of the following words Towit " A Majority of the United 
States in Congress assembled ". South Carolina mistaking the plain mean- 
ing of these words as well as some of the present disputants instructed 
their Deligates to git the words " in Congress assembled " struck out and 
then they alledged there would remain no doubt but if they had fully 
attended to the whole intention of this Sentence they would have seen that 
this would have destroyed one half and more of its true meaning, and 
thereby have left one half the Confederation out of the power of Congress 
Now I conceive this sentence includes two things vizt. that every question 
not requiring the assent of nine States, should require the assent of a 
Majority of the United States, (which while there remains only thirteen 
will always be seven) and that this assent should be given in Congress, 
and no where else, but if the words " in Congress assembled " were struck 
out, that assent Could not be given in Congress at all ; and therefore when 
any question arose in Congress that should require such assent they would 
be under the necessaty of send'g to each State for its Vote, and have to 
wait till it was Convenient for the Legislatures to determine the mater and 
send up their Voices to Congress — And in my Humble opinion if the 
words " in Congress assembled " were struck out of the Confederation, 
they would carry with them one half the powers of Congress because 
they relate to almost every question that requires the voice of a Majority 
of the States, if not to those or at least some of them that requires the 
assent of nine States.^ 

Tuesday March 6th ij8i This morning the Subject so much debated 
yesterday Came on the Carpet again, but all the Members being tired out 
with the debate and Concluding it would be unsafe to make any final 
determination on a Matter which so Materially aflfects the freedom and 
Sovereignty of the respective States, Generally agreed that the Rule of 
their Conduct should be not to go upon any business but when nine States 
at least are represented in Congress, And not to pass any vote but with 
the assent of seven States at least Untill Otherwise Determined, when all 
the States are represented and upon this Rule we proceeded to business. 

The Deligates of N. Y. moved that the Memorial from there State 
should be taken up which requested that Congress would recommend 
it to the respective States to repeal all Laws making paper Money Legal 

3 Nothing of this discussion appears in the Journals Mar. 5. Cf. no. 10, note 2, ante 
the Diary for Mar. 6, and the resolve upon the motion of Varnum and Root, in the Journals 
of that day. 



10 Continental Congress 

Tender, or that they would permit that State to pay of the certificates 
which had been given for suppHes with the new Money, or that they 
would furnish money to pay of those Certificates etc. or that they might 
be ordered to Exchange the new Money for the Old etc.* 

Doctr, Weatherspoon opposed this motion and said that it Tended to 
increase the paper Money in Circulation if they were permitted to pay of 
the Certificates in that way, and a member from Connecticut " observed 
that they had Called in all the old Money in that State by tax, and it 
would be hard now that it was in great part Collected that they should 
be obliged on account of New Yorks application to give there new Money 
out for the old, which would be taking to much from the Treasury — 
and oblige them to be at the Expence and delay of Collecting another Tax 
as the old Money must be distroyed and wou'd serve to pay the army or 
purchase Supplies — postponed Till Tomorrow. 

General Vernon of Rhode Island then moved that Congress should 
appoint a Committee to Draw up a Code of Laws giving Congress full 
power to punish all their own officers and that it should be recommended 
to the United States to Confirm the same. This Motion was at first 
opposed but the Committee was afterwards agreed to and the Debate 
reserved till they report " — another grasp. 



12. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia March 6, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Several Favors of the 8th, 17th, and 
26th Ulto,^ And have it now in my Power to inform you, that Mons'r 
Tilly with the small Squadron under his Command has left the Bay and 
arrived at New-Port the 24. Ulto. on his Passage having captured the 
Romulus, a 44 Gun Ship but pierced for 50 and carried her into Newport.^ 

* A representation from the state of New York, presented Jan. 29, and a letter from 
Governor Ointon, read Feb. 14, were taken under consideration Mar. 2 and further dis- 
cussed Mar. 3, 6, and 9. See no. 24, post; cf. vol. V., nos. 632, 639. 

5 Probably Wolcott. 

® The reference may be to the motion of Varnum quoted in the Journals, p. 236 n. 
The committee on the resolution actually adopted, on motion of Varnum and Root, re- 
specting the investment of Congress with explicit powers, made a report bearing the date 
Mar. 12, which was taken into consideration May 2 and further considered Aug. 22. See 
no. 29, post. 

[i2]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, II. 117. 

2 Jefferson's letters are in Official Letters, II. 329, 350, 2>73, addressed both to the 
President of Congress and to General Washington. The same letters, with minor differ- 
ences, are in Jefferson's Writings (ed. Ford), II. 447, 455, 469, the first and last addressed 
to the President of Congress, the second to General Washington. 

8 An account of the French successes is given in a letter from Daniel Carroll to 
Governor Lee Mar. 6 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Misc.). The letter of the minister 
of France, Mar. 2, read in Congress the same day, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 
271. See also Lafayette to Washington Mar. 2, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 248. The log of the Romulus is in the possession of the Essex Institute. See Donnan, 
Documents illustrative of the History of the Slave Trade to America, III. 80. 



March, 178 1 11 

And you may daily expect a Reinforcement in the Bay both of Troops 
and Ships, Wind and Weather permitting; but this Should remain a 
Secret until they arrive 

The Delegates from Virginia it is presumed, will give your Excellency 
more particular Intelligence of this Reinforcement.* 

13. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada. March 6, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have received your Letters of the loth and 15th Ulto. and forwarded 
your Letters to General Washington. I am happy to receive the earliest 
Intelligence from the Southward, but, in your present Situation, ever 
readily excuse your not multiplying Duplicates of the Intelligence 

You will receive enclosed, a Copy of an Act of Congress of the ist 
Instant, by which you will be informed the Articles of Confederation 
are finally ratified by all the States 

It will be proper to announce this important and happy Event to the 
Army when Circumstances will admit 

I have also the Pleasure to inform you that Moylands Corps and the 
Pennsylvania Line, except such as are on the western Frontiers, are 
ordered to join the Army under your Command, and heartily wish this 
Measure had been sooner adopted. 

14. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 6th 1781. 
Dear General, 

I was Duly Honored with your Excellency's favor of the 4th of Feby. 
and omitted writing Since upon a supposition that you had gone to Rhode 
Island.* I am happy to find your Excellency entertains the Same Senti- 
ments of the virtues and abilities of Colo. Hamilton, as I have Ever Done 
myself. After I wrote your Excellency I found The Eyes of Congress 
Turned on Robert Morris, of this City as Financier. I did not therefore 
nominate Colo. Hamilton as I foresaw that it would be but a vain 
attempt. I shall this Day nominate him as Secretary of Foreign Affairs 
in which I think I shall meet the approbation of most of the States.' The 
Choice of a Minister of War is postponed to the first of October. This 
was a manoeuvre of Saml. Adams and others from the North, fearing 
that as I was in nomination the Choice would fall on me who having 
apostatized from the true New England Faith, by sometimes voting with 

* See no. 15, post. 
[13]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 248. 

[14P Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
in. 252 ; Amory, Military Services and Public Life of Major-General John Sullivan, p. 186. 

2 Washington's letter of Feb. 4 is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 131, (ed. Sparks), 
VIL 399. 

3 Nominations for the office of secretary for foreign affairs were made Jan. 17, but 
the Journals record none on Mar. 6. See vol. V., no. 621, note 2, and nos. 46, 48, 112, post. 



12 Continental Congress 

the Southern States am not Eligible. They were not however acquainted 
with all the Circumstances. I was nominated against my will and if 
Chosen should not have Accepted."* 

General McDougle is appointed Minister of Marine. ** The Plans of 
Finance and all other matters go on so Slowly that I Tremble at the 
Consequences. I am mortified at the useless harangues which Consume 
our Time to no purpose. I am now endeavouring to obtain an adjourn- 
ment of Congress and for Leaving a Committee to Transact the Business 
as the only way of having the Publick Business done with Propriety and 
Dispatch.® I fully agree with your Excellency That Congress ought to 
have more power but I also think that the old Members Should be in 
Heaven or at Home before this Takes place 

15. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson)/ 

Sir, 

The Minister of France having imparted to Mr. Jones as Chairman 
of a Committee appointed to confer with him on some secret matters 
the intentions of C't Rochambeau and M'r Destouches explained in the 
inclosed note, we thought it of such consequence that your Excellency 
should be certainly apprized of them, that notwithstanding the probability 
of the communication being made through some other channel we deter- 
mined to guard against all risk of failure by dispatching one of the 
established expresses." .... As the success of the Enterprize may de- 
pend much on secrecy of preparation, and celerity of execution, we beg 
leave to intimate to your Excellency, that it is the wish of the Minister 
that no persons should be admitted to a knowledge of it from whom it 
can be justifiably concealed, and that such military stores, particularly 
heavy cannon and mortors, as are in the hands of the State and will be 
wanted for a siege may be in readiness to go forward at a moments call. 

■* See the Journals, Feb. 28; cf. vol. V., no. 621, note 2, ante, and nos. 24, 112, 265, 
post. See also Washington to Schuyler Feb. 20, Mar. 23 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 360). 
Schuyler, replying Apr. 3 to Washington's letter of Mar. 23, wrote: "The motives which 
led Congress to postpone filling the War department have leaked out, and been communi- 
cated to me. General Gates was in nomination; but his friends, reflecting that the im- 
propriety of appointing him before he had exculpated himself from the imputation of 
misconduct in his command, would be too glaring an abuse of power, deferred it, in hopes 
that, by an acquittal, the public confidence will be restored to him. But surely the gentlemen 
who intend him the office, neither consult his reputation nor the public interest. Not the 
former, because his inability to discharge it will certainly draw disgrace on him ; nor that 
of the latter, for, even if he was competent, he ought to be precluded, as the inveterate 
enmity which he bears you, and which will influence him the more for being groundless, 
will lead him, without hesitation, to reject or thwart the most salutary measures you may 
propose." Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, III. 280. 

^ The election of McDougall was on Feb. 27. See no. 25, post. 

6 Sullivan's motion for a committee of the states is in the Journals under Mar. 2 ; 
cj. no. 4, ante. For a history of the committee of the states see this editor's paper in Am. 
Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1913, vol. I., pp. 141-158. 

[i^Y Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc., portfolio 103 (signed by Jones and 
Madison). 

- .See no. 12, ante; cj. vol. V., no. 643, and no. 49, post; also Cal. Va. State Papers, 
1.800, 



March, 17S1 1^ 

The Minister also wishes that some suppHes of provision, of beef es- 
pecially, for the French troops may be includetl in your general 
preparations 

Phila: 6th Mar: 1781 

16. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia March 6th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

As I mentioned to you in Former Letters my Suspicions respecting 
Colo. Olcutts being either a Friend to new York or at best a mistaken 
one on the part of new Hampshire I now take the Liberty of inclosing 
you Copy of his Petition to Congress Delivered in Feby. 1780 Signed 
by him and Beza'l Woodward; by which it will appear That he was one 
of the first if not the very first mover for Taking away a great part of 
new Hampshire and annexing it to new York. This together with his 
Joining with new York in having their favorite Question determined 
would alone have been Sufficient to place him in a Suspicious point of 
Light : but I had other reasons. This will easily account for his not being 
able to Collect my real Sentiments respecting Vermont and for my Con- 
versing with him in a manner which appeared most Likely to Draw forth 
his real Sentiments. I am no Less mortified Than surprized that this 
should be Looked upon by the assembly as a breach of Trust or a Devia- 
tion from my Instructions (which I have Learn'd by Private Letters 
from New Hampshire). The events which have already taken place by 
pursuing his Plans and the Reasonings in my Late Letters will either 
serve to Justify or Condemn the measures which I have adopted. The 
Least attention to the Resolves of Congress will prove at Least how much 
it would be against the Interest of new Hampshire to have the Question 
respecting the Indei)endency of Vermont first determined, for Congress 
long since Resolved That the Inhabitants of that Territory should submit 
to the Jurisdiction they were under before the Commencement of the war. 
Now the I>ecree of the King and Council having given new york the 
Jurisdiction in 1764 and New Hampshire not assuming a Jurisdiction 
over them afterward it is inevitable that that resolution if Complied with 
would have placed those people under the Jurisdiction of new N'ork, and 
if the Question so warmly urged by new york is first Determined a 
Decision making it Independent will Destroy the claims both of new york 
and new Hampshire. But if the Determinations should be That it is not 
and shall not be an Independent state will not the Decree of the King 
and Council and the former Resolution of Congress operate to fix them 
to new york untill new Hampshire by wading through a Tedious Dispute 
can Convince Congress or at Least a Committee of it That the Decree 
of 1764 was erroneous. This will Throw the Onus upon new Hampshire 
and perhaps a Final Decision will be Delayed untill the art of new york 

[i6]iMass. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, C 81 B 17; N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers 
(copy). 



14 Continental Congress 

in the exercise of their power reconciles the minds of the People to their 
Government, and renders an acquisition of this Territory to New Hamp- 
shire more Difficult. 

These are my Sentiments respecting the views of new york and the 
Design or mistake of Colo. Olcutt — perhaps I may be mistaken but the 
reasons are submitted to the wisdom of the assembly. 

I do not mention These things to hold up the Idea of Deviating in the 
Least Degree from my Late Instructions but as a Justification of my 
Conduct prior to the receipt of my Late Instructions. - 

17. James Duane to Mrs. Duane.^ 

Philadelphia 6th March 1781. 

I received my dearest polly, your affectionate Letter by this days post. 
The circumstances of our publick Affairs have demanded the attention 
of every man in publick Trust, in an eminent degree, especially of those 
whose long experience in Business has acquired them Confidence and 
the means of being useful. It must be obvious to you that we must be 
ruined unless a Successful period is put to the war; and my Interest as 
well as duty call upon me to contribute my Services. But remember my 
dearest polly that I did not engage in the delegation of this present 
critical year but with your own free approbation; for I foresaw that the 
Common Interest as well as the particular business of our own state 
would involve me in a scene which must bring on a long and to both 

[of] us a most painful separation I feel my dearest Polly the 

force of your observation that " altho' the State requires my assistance, 
I have a tender and affectionate Wife and a young Family who require 
my Care." But what can I do? You know I never sought publick 
Employment. When called upon by the Voice of my Country cou'd I 
refuse in a Cause which my Conscience approved ? If I give up my present 
Station can I, ought I, to remain a silent spectator! No — an Active part 
I must take either in Council or the Field 

Our Southern affairs wear a promising aspect 

18. John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 6th, 1781. 
My Dear Sir, 

I received your favor of the 26th Ulto. the ist inst.' In answer thereto, 
I beg leave to observe, That all the gentlemen now prisoners at St. 
Augustine, were either acting as officers in the melitia, or as private 
soldiers, at the time they were made prisoners. And I cannot conceive 
they can be looked upon, in any other light, than that in which they acted 
at the time of their captivity. Indeed by the capitulation of Charles Town, 

- See vol. v., no. 635, and nos. 24, 25, 192, post. 
[17]'^ N. Y. Hist. See., Duane Papers, I. 69. 
[18]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Washington's letter to Mathews Feb. 26 is in IVritings (ed. Ford), IX. 168, (ed. 
Sparks), VII. 437. He replied to this letter Mar. 23. 



March, 178 1 15 

this is a point clearly decided. I conceive when the people of a country 
lay aside the characters of citizens, and assume that of soldiers, through 
the whole course of the accidents of war, they are to be considered ac- 
cording to their military rank ordy, that of the citizen being absorb'd 
in that of the soldier. For instance, all the British officers taken in 
America, who have been members of their parliament, or House of Lords, 
have not been considered as such, at the time of exchange, but simply in 
the ranks they have held in their army. Genl. Burgoyne was a Governor, 
he was never considered in all the cartels that have been propos'd in any 
other light than as a Genl. officer. Several other officers, I believe, have 
held civil commissions independent of their seats in parliament. 

From these considerations, I cannot think S'r Henry Clinton can have 
an Idea of holding those gentlemen at St. Augustine, by any other 
characters than those they respectively held in the military line at the 
time of their capture. Should your Excellency find this objection started 
by S'r H. Clinton, in the course of your negociations, I think Congress 
should be immediately acquainted with it, that they might be enabled 
to take their measures accordingly. 

If they can bring any criminal charge against those gentlemen, let them 
exhibit them. And if the charge is proved, they must suffer, if not, it 
is high time that justice should be done them. Congress cannot with 
honor, longer delay it. A speedy exchange, has hitherto been the only 
cause of its being suspended. 

19. John Mathews to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

[March 6? 1781.]- 
Our preparations for, and final ratification of the confederation have 
suspended for a time our plan of finance, our constitution being so ma- 
terially changed that we have felt a little awkward in our new gears ; 
however we have got pretty well used to them now, and have again 
entered on business. 

I hope our new constitution will prove the means of introducing a more 
clear and perfect understanding between Congress and the states, and 
while the first continues to confine themselves within the strict limits of 
their authority, the latter will conceive themselves bound by the most 
sacred ties, implicitly to support them. 

The want hitherto of a proper line to be drawn between Congress and 
the states has been the cause of numberless embarassments, for whilst 
the states were left ad libitum, some would do a great deal, some a little, 
others scarcely any thing. The evil consequences resulting from this 
course are apparent. My expectations are highly flattered by this im- 
portant event, and anticipate, in my own mind, the most happy conse- 
(|uences resulting from it.' 

[ig]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. IIL, p. 1565/^ (extract). 

2 Without the missing parts of this letter there is no very definite clue to its date, 
except that the reference to the completion of the Confederation shows that it was written 
shortly after Mar. i. On Mar. 6 Congress resolved to devote three days of each week to 
the consideration of finance. 

3 See nos. 29, 30, 48, 64, 65, 209, post. 



16 Continental Congress 

20. Thomas Rodney, Diary/ 

Wednesday March yth ij8i. The motion made yesterday by the Dele- 
gates of N. Y. Came on the Carjx^t again today. Upon inquiring into 
the Journals of Congress it appeared that the States were at Liberty to 
exchange the new Money for the Old at any Exchange not less than 40 
old Dollars for one new one So that the Motion was reduced to this — 
" Will Congress give the State of N. York permission to pay of the 
Certificates in that State with the new money?" Mr. Burk and Mr. 
McKean Urged that to permit this would be Subverting the Intention 
of the Resolution of the i8th of March Unless the old money was first 
drawn in. Mr. Weatherspoon and Mr. Bland Spoke to the same purpose, 
Mr. Duane said that it was out of the Power of N. York to call in the 
Old Money by exchange or Taxes because it was not in the State. That 
the inhabitants had let the army have all their produce, for which they 
only received Certificates — so that now they had neither Money nor 
produce to git it with, that these Certificates amounted to Two Millions 
and that the faith of the State was pledged to pay them oflF, and if Congress 
Could not furnish Money to pay them the State would be under the 
Necessaty of striking money on its own Credit to pay them. That the 
State had alway Scacredly [sic\ followed the Counsels of Congress and 
had Complied with every requisition to the Utmost of their power, and 
would not now do any thing without first having the advice of Congress. 
That he understood the State of Virginia had struck Two Millions of 
new Money on the Credit of that State contrary to the Resolution of the 
1 8th of March. 

He was seconded by Genl. Sullivan and Mr. Root of Jersey ' who 
insisted on permission for issuing the new Money to pay of those Certifi- 
cates etc. 

But Mr. Burk replied and urged the keeping of the publick faith as 
held forth in the Resolution of the 18th of March — So that when the 
question was put it passed in the negative.^ 

A long debate also arose today on a report of the Treasury board — 
whether Congress should pay Sundry Iron Masters for Shot and Shells 
in Bills on france at 4/6 specie for 4/6 Sterling. Genl. Sullivan and 
several others urged this to be done upon the principle of establishing 
the Credits of the States, Mr. Burk and Mr. McKean represented this 
as ruinous to the Publick to give Sterling for Currency. The Debate was 
long and tedious but afforded nothing very instructing, it passed in the 
negative.* 

Thirsday March 8th ijSi. According to the Order of the day Congress 
Resolved itself into a Committee of the whole upon the subject of finance. 

[20]^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 Rodney again assigns Root to New Jersey instead of to Connecticut. See no. 11, 
note 2, ante. 

3 Such a decision is not recorded in the Journals. Cf. no. 11, ante, and no. 24, post. 
* The Journals of Mar. 7 make no record of this matter. See however under Feb. 15, 

24 (Patton memorial), 26, 28, Mar. 6 (treasury report), 12, 15, 19, 26, 29, Apr. 28. 



March, 1781 17 

Attending first to gener'l Pickerings Letter informing Congress that the 
Tender Laws put it out of his power to pay his Specie Contracts according 
to their real value in Current Money.'* 

The whole Congress at once agreed that we aught to pay all our debts 
Honestly and that the Tender Laws obliging people to take paper money 
at a rate above its Current Value was pernishous. Yet a very long debate 
ensued — Some few only were against recommending it to the States to 
repeal all their Tender laws thinking it would give a fatal stab to the new 
Money, All the rest were for having this done and for paying our debts 
Honestly, but Could not agree in the manner of doing it, so that the 
whole day was taken up in debating about the form of a Resolution Suited 
to the occasion and one form after another was voted out till all the 
parties got bewildered in the debate and at length adjourned desiring that 
some member would have one ready against the morning. Whereupon 
I took upon me to prepair the following Resolutions vizt. 

" Whereas the United States in Congress assembled, being Convinced 
that Honesty is the best police [^ic] in publick, as well as in private, 
affairs are determined to conform faithfully to the Golden rule of Equity 
and Justice — therefore 

Resolved that all the debts and Contracts now due or which may here- 
after become due from the United States to any person or persons what- 
soever (being first liquidated according to the real value of the Money 
Lent or Contracted for, at the time of Lending or Contracting) Shall be 
paid in Specie or an equivalent in paper money, Computed at its current 
not legal Value when paid : anything heretofore done to the Contrary 
notwithstanding. 

All persons acting under the authority of the United States are required 
to take notice of this resolution and Govern themselves accordingly — and 
that the officers of the United States may not be prevented from dis- 
charging their several duties under the above resolution, or offend against 
any Law or Laws of the respective States making paper money legal 
Tender — Resolved that it be recommended to the respective States to 
revise and repeal all those Laws, As in the opinion of Congress they are 
greatly prejudicial to the Interest of the United States and Tend rather 
to depreciate than support the Credit of their money, which Cannot be 
done effectually but by providing sufficient funds of Specie by Tax, or 
otherwise, for the purpose of redeeming and sinking it." 

21. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 9th, 1781. 
Dear General, 

Your Excellency's Letter of the 20th of December, was refered to a 
Committee of which I have the Honor to be one. We yesterday gave 
in a Report which being read appeared satisfactory to Congress as no 

= Only a brief memorandum recording the consideration of Pickering's letter etc 
is in the Journals. ' '' 

[21 ]i Library of Congress. Washington Papers (signed by John Sullivan, Chairman, 
" In behalf of the Committee "). 



18 Continental Congress 

objection was made to it. I moved That previous to its being Considered 
it might be refered to your Excellency for your opinion, upon which 
it was recommitted, and The Committee Instructed to Consult your Excel- 
lency upon it. I Therefore take the Liberty of Inclosing your Excellency 
a Copy of the Report and of requesting (in behalf of the Committee) your 
opinion upon it. 

The first Paragraph is agreeable to the Line of promotion which your 
Excellency was pleased to point out: But as it could not be Extended 
to Hazens Regiment and others in Similar Circumstances the 2d Reso- 
lution became necessary. 

The Third and fourth respecting the Artillery and Cavalry are Liable 
to Some objections but much Less so than any other which Suggested 
themselves to the Committee 

The Promotion of Brigadiers and Major Generals comes nearer to that 
of rising in the Line of the x\rmy than any which has yet been Adopted 
or Suggested, and any other would be attended with Insuperable Diffi- 
culties. That of Suffering the States to have Officers according to the 
number of Troops furnished would prove injurious to Officers of the 
Smaller States and Even if they were to Stand Intituled to promotion 
when they became the Senior Officers In the Line of the Army, Their 
promotion would be uncertain as they would Constantly have to Combat 
with the Interest of State and the Caprice of Individuals to obtain it. 

The Committee will Thank your Excellency for your Sentiments upon 
Every Paragraph of the Report and beg you to give the Date of Colo. 
Tilghmans and Doctor McHenrys Entering the Service.^ 

P : S : The Clause respecting volunteers will prevent the Army from 
being Commanded by illiterate Sergeants which must inevitably be the 
Case in a few years if Some Such mode is not adopted. 

J:S: 

22, James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin/ 

March 9, 1 78 1 . 
Hon'ble Sir, 

I forward Gazettes, Journals and some particular Resolves, by Way of 
Amsterdam. 

The Arrival of the Ariel has given us Dispatches from you, long ex- 
pected, of June 1st, Aug. 9th, Dec. 2d and 3d. 

Congress had, before the Receipt of your Letters Feb. 19th, written 
to Mr. Adams Jany. loth, and signified their Concurrence in Opinion 
with C't de Vergennes, as to the Time and Circumstances of announcing 
his (Mr. A's) powers to Gr. Britain. They had also on Dec'br 12th 
expressed their Sentiments upon his Letters of June 26th, inclosing to 
them his Correspondence relative to the Act of the i8th of March calling 
in the old paper money. I send you Extracts from the Journals for your 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 8, 9, May 25; also nos. 112, 128, post; cf. also vol. V., 
no. 571. Washington submitted his ideas to the committee Apr. 3 (Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 152, flf. 43, 53) ; to Sullivan Apr. 4 (Washington Papers, drafts). 

[aa]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Society Coll.; Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr.. IV. 276. 



March, 1781 19 

fuller Information on these points ; and I shall forward, yet for a Time, 
all acts of Cong-ress intended for your Guidance whenever they are 
finished. But I most earnestly look for the Appointment of a Secretary 
of foreign Affairs, agreably to their Determinations of Jany. 10. Such 
an Officer may authoritatively communicate his Opinions, and in many 
Ways make your Station more easy and reputable to you than it can have 
been under great want of Information of our circumstances. 

23. Thomas Rodney, Diary.^ 

[March 10, 1781.] 

Caractors of Some of the Members of Congress. 

His Excellency Samuel Huntington President, is a man of a mild 
Steady and firm Conduct and of Sound and methodical Judgment tho 
not a man of many words or very Shining abilities. But upon the whole 
is better Suted to Preside than any other member now in Congress. In his 
Dress, and maners, he is very plain, very gentleman [l]y and truely re- 
publican. He is from Connecticut. 

General Sulivan, of New hampshire has been in the army from the 
beginning of the war, has a good Idea of Publick affairs, is of Honest 
Political Sentiments, desirous of supporting the credit of the States, and 
doing Justice to their Servants, he is generally cool and firm with an 
appearance of diffidence in debate, generally keeps to the points in question, 
but does not possess any great polically abilities; such as are necessary 
to take into view such an Extensive Systematical arrangement of things 
as is necessary in so extensive a government. 

Samuel Adams of Masachusetts has been in Congress from their first 
meeting, has a pretty general knowledge of their affairs and is particularly 
attentive to every thing that affects his own State or friends ; he is neither 
eloquent nor talkative; but having- the full command of his passions, and 
possessing a great deal of caution and Court cunning he is well fitted for 
a politician in every Case where great and good abilities are not requisite. 

General Varnum of Rhode Island is a man about thirty, of florid habit, 
he has read some little in books, is fond of Speaking and Spouting out 
every thing that his reading has furnished him with whether apt or not 
to the purpose, his temper and Councils are very precip[it]ate and but 
little calculated to be useful in such an Assembly, he is very desirous of 
inlarging its powers. 

Mr. [ ] ^ of C'onnecticut appears to be a man of Integrity is very 

candid in debate and open to Conviction and does not want abilities ; but 
does not appear to be possessed of much political knowledge. 

Mr. Duane of New York has been in Congress from the first. Is of good 
and even temper, attentive to business, of a low soft Voice, not EUoquent, 
nor designing, but upon the whole a good republican, desirous of promot- 
ing the general weal and particularly attached to the Interests of his own 
State. 

[23]!^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

- Presumably Wolcott is meant. See note 3, below. 



20 Continental Congress 

Doct'r Weather Spoon of New Jersy is a man in year perhaps 70 of 
the New light Presbeterian Ardor. Is possessed of a good share of 
knowledge in books and the Languages ; speaks with a low and broken 
Voice on the Scotch accent; And has all the design and arch Cuning that 
is necessary or practiced in an assembly of the kirk of Scotland. But 
does not seem to possess much of that Candid integrity, Honesty and 
Wisdom which is necessary in the Governing an Honest Confederacy. 

Mr. Root;' of Jersy is a man that seems to be without passions and 
therefore has a Capacity to Conceal the most artful designs under the 
most specious shew of Candor, and plausible argument, yet his language 
is so weak and innervate that he seldom succeeds in making much im- 
pression on the audience — in short his Talents seem better suted to some 
under office of some European Court than to a republican assembly. 

Doct'r Montgomery of Pensylvania is a man possessed of a good share 
of reading and knowledge and is an agreeable companion in private — has 
an apt memory and a fertile immagination — Yet is Vain, fond of power 
and governed in publick Councils by capricious whims. 

Mr. McKean of Delaware, now Chief Justice of Pensylvania, has been 
in Congress from the first, is a man of talants — of great Vanity, extremely 
fond of power and entirely governed by passions, ever pursuing the object 
present with warm enthusiastic zeal without much reflection or forecast. 
There is none from Maryland that may be particularly distinguished 
at present. Therefore I take notice of a Mr. Madison, of Virginia who 
with some little reading in the Law is just from the College, and possesses 
all the self conceit that is Common to youth and inexperience in like 
cases — but it is unattended with that gracefulness and ease which some 
times makes even the impertinence of youth and inexperience agreeable 
or at least not offensive. 

Col. Bland of Virginia is a man of moderate talants, of firmness and 
Candor and much attached to the Constitution of the States — Tho not 
very systematical nor always of the best Judgment and is rather rustic 
in debate. 

Doct'r Burk of N. Carolina, tho not equal to many who have been in 
Congress, may justly be stiled the ablest and most useful member there 
at present. He has been in Congress five A'ears, is very attentive and well 
acquainted with business, is nervous tho not Eloquent in his language, 
he is Correct and pointed in his debates, possesses the Honest integrity 
of a republican and is for preserving inviolable the rights of the people 
without being lured away by power. Yet he is some times not fully 
guarded from Dictatorial language and does not attend sufficiently to 
system, order and arrangement, in a general view but confines himself 
too much to particular Objects. 

Governor Bee of South Carolina, is a man of some talants, of a cruid 
restive temper, not Eloquent but of a harsh and disagreable delivery; 
consiquensial in his deportment and Conceited in his notions — very de- 
sirous of Order in the House, but most apt to transgress it himself. 

3 Rodney continues to make the mistake of assigning Root to New Jersey instead 
of Connecticut. 



March, 1781 21 

Mr. Mathews Chief Justice of S. Carolina, is a man of talants and 
more Agreable in his address as well as language, but has an interuptive 
maner of speaking not well adapted to Command attention, is undesigning 
and possesses a goodeal of Candor, which leaves him open to Conviction, 
and upon the whole is a good republican. 

Governor Howley of Georgia is a man of great reading and knowledge 
which he generally displays without system or design straying far from 
the object in question, so that he often leaves it in doubt what side of the 
question he is on. He is loud but not very eloquent, therefore rather 
excels in Declamation than argument, and of course is not Closely at- 
tended to, but when he entertains the House with st[ro]kes of wit or 
spouts of knowledge. He would shine more in a Democratic assembly. 
The rest of the House may be thrown into one Group of inferior 
talants, mostly young, inexperienced, and unconnected in any regular 
political Views. 

The judicious will see by this exhibition of Caractors. that the affairs 
of the United States in Congress are not Conducted by the ablest talants 
and men of the first abilities, therefore will not be found agreable to the 
rules of unexceptionable wisdom. Neither are they Conducted by the 
most true, disinterested and amiable spirit of Patriotism. Yet Congress 
Considered Collectively possesses a firm and Independant Spirit, with a 
determined and unalterable resolution to support the liberties of America. 
And tho selfish Conceit and opinions which most of the members possess 
has in some measure the effect of the most disinterested Patriotism, be- 
cause it occasions them to disagree in every thing but those measures 
which is notoriously for the good of all, Yet this disjointed manner of 
proceeding throws government into that disordered tract of adopting one 
expedient after another perpetually by which means the States have lost 
their Credit, and Congress that Confidence which the People ought to 
have in their wisdom. 

There fore it is to be wished that Congress would ad System, order 
and arrangement well organized, to the Honesty and integrity of their 
measures. And I trust now that the respective powers of Congress and 
the States are prescribed and marked out, these improvements will soon 
begin to take place. 

Indeed it is not much to be wondered at that this has not taken place 
before. Such a Variety of interests as there must be among a people 
forming thirteen Independant States extended over a vast Tract of 
Country, and only connected by political ties, requires much time and 
experience to reduce them to Systematical order, and so to Organize and 
arrange them as to be sutable and agreable to a i>eople so jealous of their 
Liberties as the Americans are, and so as to give no reason of complaint 
to one part of the Community against another. 

But I am pursuaded a Noble, Honest and generous love for mankind. 
United with a firm and unalterable attachment for our Country, together 
with a Virtuous mind, relying on the favour and blessings of Providence 
will lead us to this at last. And by its success convince the world of the 
Justice and uprightness of our Cause. 



22 Continental Congress 

The loth of March I returned home where I stayed seven or eight 
days then went down to Kent, where I stayed two weeks on my own 
private affairs, returned home to Wilmington the last of March and came 
again to Congress the tenth of Aprill, when I found Congress in the same 
imbarressed situation with their finances as when I left them 

24. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, March nth, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The Representation which your Excellency Transmitted to Congress 
on Behalf of our State after a deliberate Commitment and Report has 
for several Days Engaged the Attention of Congress ; ^ The second propo- 
sition which you state for our Relief (to wit) to issue the New Bills in 
Satisfaction of the Commissary and Quarter masters Certificates, was 
Recommended by the Committee as the most Eligible ; But they did not 
propose it as a partial But general Indulgence extending to all the States. 

On making an Estimate of the probable amount of the Certificates in 
the Different States it was supposed that if they should be Discharged 
on that principle, the act of the i8th of March would be Effectually 
frustrated. The Report was therefore almost unanimously Rejected, as 
a very Capital Dependance for carrying on the approaching Campaign 
is placed on the four tenths to arise to the publick from the new Emission. 

The first proposition to advance money to our State in Discharge of 
the Commissary and Quarter Master Certificates, however Just and 
Reasonable is put out of Question. The Exhausted State of our Finances 
Render it Totally Impracticable. 

The last Expedient is attended with all the Difficulties and Incon- 
veniences Suggested by your Excellency and Cannot be Embraced without 
operating greatly to the Detriment of publick Credit and Deeply Injuring 
the New Money. Other States, as North Carolina, Virginia, Pennsylvania, 
and Connecticut were not Restrained by the prohibition of Congress from 
adopting the project. It has given them Temporary Relief and this seems 
to be all they Consulted. For nothing is more Certain than that if they 
issue only as much State money as they call in and cancel of the old 
Continental Bills the great object of the act of the i8th of March which 
was to diminish the Quantity of money in Circulation, and to Substitute 
a Real instead of a fluctuating and Nominal Medium of Commerce, must 
be Defeated, and our Finances continue as Deranged as Ever. 

Congress however are fully Convinced of the Distresses and Sufferings 
of the State of New York as well as of their Spirited and Expensive 
Exertions in the Common Cause. And since they Cannot afford us Relief 
they will not be Displeased at any Measures Which the Legislature may 

[24]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 268; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS.. 
XII. 159- 

2 See vol. v., nos. 632, 639, and no. 20, ante. Clinton's letter of Feb. s,, read in Con- 
gress Feb. 14, is in Clinton Papers, VI. 634. See also Clinton to Washington Feb. 14 
(Letters to IVashhu/ton, ed. Sparks, HI. 228), and Washington's reply Feb. 19 (IVrifings, 
ed. Sparks, VII. 416), 



March, 1781 23 

think fit to adopt to Extricate themselves from their present deplorable 
Circumstances. And if the Emission of paper State Money appears to 
the Legislature to be the only or Best Remedy for those pressing Evils 
it ought not to be Rejected. 

There can be no doubt but the Requisitions made on our State must 
undergo a Revision, Congress See the Necessity of it. Indeed when the 
Quotas were fixed we apprized the Committee (of Estimates and ways 
and means) of our Inability to Contribute so largely under our present 
Misfortunes. But finding it would lay a foundation for much Altercation 
as other States might Claim a Reduction of their Quotas, it was thought 
most advisable to wait for the Representation of the Legislature as a 
ground for Reasonable abatements. Nothing Can now be Exported from 
our State but what the Legislature shall Judge compatible with their 
Distresses. But care ought to be taken to point out what you cannot 
Supply, that it may be Required from the other States.' 

We ought not to omit mentioning that your Excellency's Representation 
was communicated to the Assembly of Pensylvania by the Committee to 
whom it was referred ; with the Approbation of Congress. It was expected 
that this Assembly from Motives of Justice might have been prevailed 
on to advance Money out of their Treasury to pay for Flour which they 
and not we ought to have supplied. But it is reported to be out of their 
power : and a great waste of Time is the only Effect which has been 
produced.* 

A Repeal of all Tender Laws is under Consideration. The Quarter 
Master complains that they have eflfectually closed all the avenues to 
credit and Confidence. The Citizens will not part with their property 
while they are compellable to take paper in payment which is not worth 
its nominal Value. 

It is probable that another measure will soon be adopted. A late Law 
of pensylvania will not permit the old Continental money to be taken in 
under Seventy five dollars old, for one of the New Emission. The Act 
of New Jersey directs that the old money shall be paid in at its current 
value compared with Specie. 

An Act of Maryland in effect nullifies the bills of the old Emission, 
after the Period by which they ought to have been called in by Taxes. 
These Measures introduce such Inequality and confusion and open a door 
to so much Speculation and Fraud, that it is in Contemplation to call 
in the old Emission after the time they ought to have been cancelled by 
Taxes agreeably to the Act of the i8th of March. 

If our State shou'd think fit to pass a Law similar to that of Pensyl- 
vania, or New Jersey, and Congress shou'd take decisive order to bring 
in the old Emission, It may be taken for granted that when Pensylvania 
shall have issued their proportion of the New Money ; the People of that 
State will be glad to exchange at your Treasury on the same Terms as 
others had in their own, rather than suffer the old Emissions to sink in 

8 To this point the letter is in the writing of William Floyd; the remainder is in the 
writing of James Duane. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 28. 



24 Continental Conr/ress 

their Hands. This Event woti'd supply our State with the means of issuing 
the new Bills under vast advantages as 75 of the old dollars wou'd enable 
us to put in Circulation near four of the new ; and the Debt of 200,000,000 
Dollars wou'd be cancelled almost insensibly. 

We have executed the Trust reposed in us by the Legislature respecting 
the Western Territory within our State. From the manner in which this 
business was conducted it was left to us to make the Session without a 
formal Treaty with Congress ; W^e therefore availed ourselves of the 
discretionary Clause of our Instructions and have limited the State by 
a Western boundary which if there is any Correctness in the Map must 
include the whole of Lake Ontario and more considerably than 20 miles 
west of Niagara, and our Northern boundary we have limited by the 
45th degree of North Latitude, But least it might ix)ssibly happen that 
this western boundary should fall short of the ultimatum assigned by the 
Legislature, we have made their ultimatum itself an alternative in that 
•Case in the words in which it is expressed in the Instruction. Virginia 
Demanded in Consideration of the Cession she made which consists of 
her Claim to the North West of the Ohio an explicite Guarantee by the 
united States of her remaining Jurisdiction. If we had in express Terms 
made the same Condition it might have been liable to a construction that 
we were seeking a Benefit instead of conferring a favour; and yet it 
would have been imprudent to bind our State in a special Guarantee of 
the Jurisdiction of Virginia when our own was not secured in the same 
manner. We therefore thought it necessary to connect our Cession with 
an Act which subjects it to the Ratification or disallowance of the Legisla- 
ture; unless our State receives the same Guarantee from the Confederated 
States as any other of its members which have made or shall make 
Cessions of Territory for the Common benefit. We flatter ourselves that 
this precaution tho not directed by the Legislature will meet with your 
Excellency's and their approbation. The authentic Copies of the Declara- 
tion and Instrument of Cession are herewith transmitted.^ 

The Government of New Hampshire has lately pressed Congress in 
the most express Terms to decide on the Vermont Claim of Independence 
which has given that State a full share of the fatal Effects of this Revolt. 
General Sullivan has accordingly moved Congress to come to a determina- 
tion, and as he appears to be serious it is probable that they will give the 
Judgement which has been delayed but too long. General McDougall has 
undertaken to detail this vexatious business, to his Letter on this point 
we beg leave to refer.** Mr. Robert Morris is elected Superintendent of 
the Finances and General McDougall Secretary of Marine but neither 
have yet declared their Acceptance. The late board of war is continued 
in the administration of that Department till the Fall, it being considered 
imprudent to hazard a Change when the Campaign is nearly opening. 
The Secretary for foreign affairs is not yet appointed.' 

The New York act of cession is in the Journals, Mar. i, 1781 (see vol. V., nos. 29, 
93. 423). Concerning the Virginia cession see vol. V., no. 629, and passim; also no. 10] 
ante. 

8 See no. 16, ante, and nos. 25, 192, post. 

'' Cf. vol. v., no. 621 (note 2), no. 14, ante, and no. 25, post. 



March, 1781 25 

Our Southern operations wear the most promising aspect. Genl. Corn- 
wall is is retreating, the Country armed on all sides of him and Genl. 
Greene in pursuit. In several Skirmishes we have had the advantage. 
Arnold is not in a better Situation as the Virginians supported by some 
Continental Troops will speedily be reinforced by the Marquis lafayette 
at the head of 1200 Light Infantry. We hope soon to send you agreeable 
Intelligence from these armies which will have a decisive Influence on 
our Affairs. The Collection of papers which are enclosed will communi- 
cate the particulars of our Southern operations and all the News. 

We have omitted two important Objects of your Excellency's Repre- 
sentation : The Defence of the frontiers and a provision for the Oneidas. 
Your Excellency knows that the Commander in Chief has unlimited 
Authority to direct the Operations of the War and to dispose of the 
Troops at his pleasure,* and we are confident his Sensibility and his par- 
ticular Regard for our State will induce him to take every Measure for 
our protection which your Excellency may recommend as necessary. The 
Oneidas, we believe, are by this time in some measure relieved as the 
Commander in Chief acquaints the board of war that the Cloathing he 
had been able to spare wou'd he hoped be sufficient for the present to 
make them comfortable. 

We are most unfortunate in the Importation of our Cloathing. Col, 
Lawrence and Col. Palfrey who are lately gone to France on publick 
business have this necessary Article in Charge and we hope they will be 
able to send it forward. There is nothing gives Congress so much pain 
as the delays, too probably the sinister designs and frauds which have 
exposed our Army to nakedness and distress : At a time when a con- 
siderable Quantity of Cloathing was actually purchased. We can't enter- 
tain a doubt but if these Supplies arrive our Oneida friends will have 
a share. At present while it is impossible to Cover our own Army they 
cannot expect to be provided for as their Sufferings and their Merit 
require." 

25. Alexander McDougall to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, March 12th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I intended to have written to you very fully, by this Conveyance, but 
being indisposed for some days, I must defer it till another opportunity 
offers. I have not attended Congress, since the first instant, when the 
Confederation was compleated. 

Colonel Floyd from his Circumstances, will be obliged to leave this, 
when the Roads are settled; and as the Confederation requires two 

8 At this point the following sentence stands erased : " Congress will not interfere 
in the Campaign nor do I think you wou'd wish them to interpose, nor can it be necessary." 

» Subscribed to the letter are the names of Duane, Floyd, and McDougall, all in the 
hand of Duane. 

[2sP Clinton Papers. VI. 683. 

6 



26 Continental Congress 

Delegates at least to represent a State, ours will be unrepresented, unless 
some of the Delegates come on about that time. 

The Question of the New Hampshire Grants, will soon be settled, as 
the State of that Name urge its Delegates to press for a Decision, and 
there is great Reason to expect it will be a just and honorable one for our 
State. The Session made by Virginia to the United States, has removed 
the Cause of opposition, which Maryland gave, to have our dispute settled ; 
and the other small States not near us, will cease their opposition, as the 
Cause of it is removed. Pennsylvania will urge a determination of their 
dispute with Connecticut, as soon as the business of their Legislature is 
over. This I had from their President, in a confidential Conversation 
with him, on the Subject of the New England encroachments. The influ- 
ence of the Officers of the New England Lines, is considerable in their 
States; and the habits of thinking which they have acquired in the army, 
are more conformable to the genius of our Constitution, than the yeo- 
manry of those States, who will unavoidably come into ours; and it is 
necessary the levelling principles of the Latter, should be tempered by those 
of the former.^ .... 

Congress have elected me Secretary of the Marine, but I cannot think 
of quitting the field, in the active part of the Campaign ; while so great 
part of our State is in the hands of the enemy. I have, therefore, informed 
Congress of this, as a Condition on which I will undertake the Charge 
of their Marine.* 

The present State of it and their probable funds, will not take up the 
time of a qualified person in that Office, more than Six or eight Months 
of the year, when the proper arrangements are made for its government 
and future increase. 

26. Richard Howly to the Governor of Maryi.and 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

March 13, 1781. 

Inclosed is a Majors brevet for Mr. E. Giles, a Gentleman of your 

.State which has been voted him by Congress for his Merit and Services. 

2 See no. 24, ante. Gouverneur Morris wrote to Robert R. Livingston Mar. 14: 
" of Vermont this is the state — at Phila : our Delagates are very urgent with Congress to 
do what Congress cannot do, and what they have not the Inclination to do, if they could. 
Opposition has made Vermont just as opposition made Wilkes and yet we are not content. 
McDougall pressed me to state the claims of New York in a Pamphlet and I agreed 
because I saw there was a design to attempt it elsewhere and I thought I could write on 
that subject more in a style of Conciliation than Mr. Duane whose Mildness on other 
occasions I shall not question. Mr. Duane has done a great deal towards writing everything 
about it that is writable and has indeed said so much and so well that I can say nothing. 
I think silence will be best and therefore I shall say nothing. Genl. McDougall is appointed 
Minister of the Marine and the appointment of a Minister of War is postponed until 
October. I doubt whether Schuyler will be nominated. I think Green will be the man. 
The Duties of the Secretary of foreign aflfairs will I believe be annexed to the secretary- 
ship of Congress at least for the present and Thompson will not want Industry enough. 
Morris to whom I have communicated what you wrote, this day deliveres to Congress a 
Letter which will open the way to his acceptance." N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., 
Livingston Papers, II. 237 (copy). 

8 The election was on Feb. 27. See vol. V., nos. 621 (note 2), 661, no. 14, ante, and 
the Journals, Mar. 12, 29, 30, July 6, 18, Aug. 29, Sept. 7 ; cf. nos. 67, 304, post. 
[26]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXIX. 43; Arch, of Md.. XLVII. 123. 



March, 1781 27 

I do myself the honor, of transmitting it to your Excellency; with a re- 
quest, it may be forwarded with convenient dispatch to the person for 
whom it is intended.^ 

2y. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney.* 

Wilmington March 13, 1781.' 
Sir, 

.... The completion of the Confederation I believe will ad[d] greatly 
to the vigor of the exertions of both the Union and Alliance. Congress 
are well disposed to be active in providing ways and means to carry on 
the War with spirit. They find from the information of their officers 
that the tender of the new money at the same value of specie, is a great 
hindrance to that credit they cou'd otherwise git in purchasing supplies 
and it is the general wish that they were out of the way for it was not 
their desire by the Resolution of the i8th of March that the Money should 
be made a Lawful Tender, at the Value of specie but that the States 
Should have convinced the people of its Value by the Certain Seairity 
of redemption — and in Connecticut where it is not a legal Tender it is 
in better credit than in Pensylvania so that you see the Moderation of 
our Law will not meet the disapprobation of Congress 

28. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry.^ 

March 16 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I wish I could give you better accounts from the southard than 
are circulating now. I must own I do not think Cornwallis is in any 
Danger of being ruined. He may be harrassed Somewhat. But he will 
reach a Port of Embarkation. I think this much more than probable. 

- See the Journals, Mar. 9. Giles was brevetted " in consideration of his merit and 
services at the battle of Cowpens " (Heitman, Hist. Reg.). He had been an aide to Gen- 
eral Morgan and had recently brought to Congress despatches from General Greene. See 
the Journals, Feb. 17. 

[27] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Elbridge Gerry, then at Marblehead, Mass., wrote to William Carmichael Mar. 13 : 
" I am happy to hear that the American Bills on Madrid are current in Europe and will 
be duly honored. I was against the Measure for the Reasons suggested in your Letter, and 
stand recorded in the negative. It was reasonable to suppose that the Reconsideration of 
Smiths question would produce a Delay in the negotiation of the Treaty but the Ratification 
of the Confederacy by Marylands acceeding to it, our Success at the Southard, the pros- 
pect of settling the Dispute with Vermont, and of having a permanent and respectable 
Army, are weighty Considerations and enable Congress to stand for ' the Rights of all 
the States'." N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9332. 

See Carmichael's letters to the committee for foreign affairs Sept. 9, 25, Oct. 15, Nov. 28, 
and Dec. 19, 1780 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 51, 69, 99, 164, 198). The last two of 
these were read in Congress Feb. 12. Gerry appears to mean that he voted against draw- 
ing bills on Laurens and Jay. The vote on the main question, Nov. 23, 1779, shows Gerry's 
name and response, " no ", both erased. He is recorded as voting " no " Nov. 29 on the 
propositions respecting the manner of drawing the bills. " Smiths question " probably 
means Meriwether Smith's proposition that the free navigation of the Mississippi River 
be made an ultimatum in the treaty with Spain. See the Journals, Sept. 9, 10, 11, 17, 
Oct. 13, 1779- 

[38]^ Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison, of Harvard University. 



28 Continental Congress 

An Express came with two Duplicate Letters of Doctr. Franklin, and 
many old Newspapers. It is the second Exertion of Zeal in that Way. 
The french Minister indeed had many Letters as well as Papers but the 
fr : Consul should have seen to the Portrage [sic^ of them. The Exix;nce 
is great. The other Time alluded to, a Horse was lost in Hudson's River, 
whereby the Public were brought to extra Cost for their old News Papers 
sent from Boston to York Town 

We have decided today [to] recommend all Tender Laws so far as 
they respect Rates of Exchange. A large Tax is also recommended and 
the new Bills to be taken as Silver, tho we promise to pay all Debts in 
Silver or real current Exchange so that if the People still chuse to do it 
they may go on biting their own Noses, loading themselves with new 
Taxes to make good the Deficiencies which are caused by their specu- 
[la]ting Principles and Practice.^ 

I must quit. I have hurt myself of late by Watchings 

yr. Friend 

J. L. 

29. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(WiLLL\M Greene),^ 

Phil.\delphia i6th March 1781. 
Sir, 

.... I send your Excellency all the Journals of Congress that have 
come officially: I wish, for the honor of my Country, they contained 
some of those Master Strokes of Policy that would adorn the History of 
Mankind. But great Bodies move slow; and the Tediousness of their 
Deliberations forms a Sacrifice to be offered up at the Shrine of Freedom. 

Congress have nearly finished their Estimates for the present Year, and 
the Demand to be made upon the States, in Addition to those already 
required. I hope they will soon be transmitted.' A Plan is also maturing 
for the States to enable Congress to oblige the Delinquent States to do 
their Duty. This as it will be additional to the Articles, must be first 
proposed to the States for their Ratification. It is finished in a Com- 
mittee; And I hope will be approved by Congress. Should it, and the 
States acquiesce, the willing States will be greatly relieved.^ .... 

- In the first part of this letter, which chiefly pertains to private matters, Lovell 
refers to the question of a proper rate of exchange, then remarks : " My Friends pd. from 
75 to 78, but perhaps it may have been raised a little by a Run of Paper from this Quarter 
or it may have fallen by ' the arrival of a french Frigate at Boston with four million 
Dollars '." On the margin he has written, " News of the Day ! " ; and some other hand has 
written beneath this remark, " Fama Malum etc." Lovell requests Gerry to deliver some 
money to his wife or endeavor to turn it into " Chink " ; then follows this remark : " N. B. 
The Quakerish Disaffected here in bargaining ask whether you intend Chink or Limber- 
Chink, meaning the new Continent'l." The draft of Gerry's reply is written in the blank 
space below Lovell's signature and is dated Apr. 17, 1781. 

[29]* R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 17810-1781, p. 38; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cony., p. 333. 

- See the Journals, Mar. 14, 16, 23. 

^ Cf. vol. v., nos. 627, 669, and no. 10, note 2, ante. The committee, consisting of 
Varnum, Duane, and Madison, was appointed Mar. 6 (see the Journals, p. 236, note 2) 
and brought in a report Mar. 16, the day on which Varnum was writing. Tlie report. 



March, 178 1 29 

30. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphl\, March 16, 1781. 

Please your Excellency, 

Mr. Brown arrived here day before yesterday, and we were honoured 
with your two letters with their enclosures. The act of Assembly vesting 
Congress with the power of levying duties on imports for so limmitted 
a period as three years after the end of the war. 1 fear, will in a great 
measure defeat the important ends proposed." 

Our debt is very considerable now and will be annually increased while 
the war lasts; can it be supposed that those duties with the other aids 
the States will be able to give will be sufficient to discharge the national 
debt within that period ? 

Besides, Congress have no resources for supplies or funds on which 
to obtain a credit but from the States, and can the States furnish us with 
either in so easy and equitable a way as by duties and imposts ? It would 
be easy to borrow money at home or abroad were we possessed of funds 
commensurate to the loans, or even to the interest of the sums we need. 
At present we are obliged to draw bills of exchange on our Minister 
at the Court of France at a great riscjue and sell them at a great loss. 

Congress in a Committee of the whole have agreed to report that an 
estimate of the sums wanted for the current year, beyond those allready 
called for, be transmitted to the States, and that they be called upon for 
6,000,000 of dollars to be paid in specie or the new Continental bills in 
quarterly payments. I think that the old Continental bills should be called 
in or exchanged at their current value, and that the new' bills should 
issue equal to specie. In this case neither the public or individuals can 
suffer and there is- nothing in the resolves of Congress that contradicts 
this. The Committee of the whole have likewise agreed to report to 
recommend to the States to amend their laws making paper bills a tender 
otherways than ad valorem.'^ 

1 enclose some extracts from Govr. Jefferson's letter, which contains 
the substance of the intelligence from the southward.* 

I must leave Congress by the middle of April. Genl. Woolcot designs 
to leave it sooner, and Mr. Huntington is determined to go home about 

dated Mar. 12, is printed in the Journals under May 2, the day on which it was taken into 
consideration. It was then referred to a grand committee, that is, a committee composed 
of a member from each state. The report was principally drawn by Madison, who on 
Apr. 16 sent a copy of it to Governor Jefferson with a request for his opinion. On July 20 
the grand committee made a report, was discharged, and the business referred to a com- 
mittee consisting of Randolph, Ellsworth, and Varnum. This committee brought in a 
report Aug. 22, which is printed in the JoiiniaJs under that date. The report was made 
the order of the day for the next day ; but it was allowed to sleep. Cf. no. 19, ante, and 
nos. 30, 48 (note 3), 64, 65, 209, post; see also Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
I. 23 et seq. 

[30] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 208. 

- See vol. v., nos. 633, 638, 641, 642, 644, the Journals, Mar. 15, 22, and nos. 38, 39, 
52, post. 

3 See no. 29, ante. 

* This was doubtless Jefferson's letter of Mar. 8 (iVritings. ed. Ford, II. 486; 
Official Letters, U. 393). 



30 Continental Congress 

the last of April. Some gentlemen must come on or the State will be 
without a representation in Congress. 

March lyth: The resolutions mentioned to have been agreed in Com- 
mittee are now passed in Congress and will be forwarded by Brown. 

Mr. Robt. Morriss is elected Superintendant of Finance, Genl. Mc- 
Dougal, Secretary of Marine; both have given their answer, but state 
terms which Congress have not yet decided upon.** Exchange between 
the old Continental and specie is 130 for i. It seems pretty well confirmed 
that the British only cut out the American vessels at St. Eustacia. 

31. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry.^ 

March 20th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the ist reached me yesterday by Post and I have also to 
express my Obligation for one of the same date written to us jointly 
about a Regulation wch is not now essential so far as one Voice was 
intended to serve in the Delegation. But I wish not to be going on with- 
out having our Suppression of the Novr. Order sanctified. We have 
written for the Purpose." .... 

I inclose you some Proceedings of a few Days old which will be 
forwarded to the Government together with a Proclamation for a Fast 
the 1st Thursday in May. I hope we shall have great occasion to rejoice 
also. Much may be done by the allied Force in Chessapeak and I hope 
the Dutch will instantly combine with France and Spain. George 3d is 
downright Bobadil at this Period. If you do not get the News before 
this reaches your Hand you will have it by the Gazette inclosed to all 
the Extent we have.^ 

Give my affectionate Compl[iments] to Doctr. Holten. I intende[d 
to] write to him in answer to his fa[vor] by Brown, but I am forced 
to scr[atch] this at a Window and am too tire[d to] scratch more than 
that I am 

Sincerely yours 

J L 

32. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, March 20th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

On account of some disagreeable Information which I have reed, from 
my family, as well as on some other accounts, I am under a necessity 
of returning home, and shall set off in a few days. I considered it my 
duty to Inform your Excellency of this, that some person may come 
on, to represent the State. 

° See nos. 14, 24, 25, ante. 
[ZiY Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison, of Harvard University. 

2 See vol. v., nos. 550, 573- 

8 See nos. 32, 35, 38, post. 
[3a] 1 Clinton Papers, VI. 709. 



March, 178 1 31 

By the Inclosed paper of this day's date, you will see the manifesto 
of the King of Britain, which amounts to a Declaration of War against 
the Dutch. This appears to be a rash measure, and looks like the Effect 
of Desperation — what will be the Consequences among the neutral powers 
of Europe is not Certain, but we have reason to expect that the armed 
neutrality will in general disapprove of the Conduct of Britain." .... 

2,Z- JA^fEs DuANE TO Mrs. Duane.^ 

Philad. 20th March 1781. 
My Dearest Polly, 

I have written by this Conveyance to our Governour giving him notice 
of my Intention to return home as soon as the Roads permit, and re- 
questing that some of the other Gentlemen may be sent to Keep up our 
Representation in Congress. Whether the Legislature complies with my 
request or not I shall, I flatter myself, be with you before the first of 
May as I most impatiently long to be with you." .... 

P. S. I omitted to mention that the British have declared War against 
the Dutch and taken St. Eustatia, Curocoa and 60 Vessels in the Texel. 
This Event will give us another ally 

34. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia March 20th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the honor of writing to yr Excellency a few lines by express 
the 1 8th Instant and enclosed a List of the force of the two fleets.^ 

The Board of war referd to Congress two Letters from Your Excel- 
lency on the Subject of Col Smith, and the 4 Artillery Companys. These 
papers are refered to a committee of which I am one. I shall be glad 
to receive every information in your power on the Subject, Particularly 
relative to the Artillery Companys. I believe there are among the Council 
papers, some Letters from Genl. Washington, and returns showing that 
almost the whole of Harrisons Regt of artillery was compos'd of Mary- 
land troops. Extracts of what may appear proper from these letters, and 
a copy of the returns (which I cannot get from the board of war) may 

2 Cf. no. 31, ante, and nos. 35, 38, post. A letter from the Virginia delegates (Madi- 
son and Bland) to Governor Jefferson Mar. 20, giving an account of military and naval 
affairs, is in Hist Soc., of Pa., Dreer Coll., Soldiers, I. 
[33]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. iii. 

2 Robert R. Livingston wrote to Schuyler (from " Cler Mount ") Mar. 28: " Have 
you provided for the delegation? McDougal will quit, Duane will either be elected presi- 
dent or return home soon. The chair will be vacant soon by Mr. Huntingtons retiring. 
Duane, Jones, Matthews are talked of" (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1261). 
Cf, no. 40, note 3, post. 

[34]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 77; Arch, of Md., XLVIL 134. 

2 The letter is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 76, and Arch, of Md., XLVIL 134, 
but is dated Mar. 20. A brief note dated Mar. 18 is ibid., p. 131, but it relates to a 
Dr. Carroll of the Convention troops. 



32 Continental Congress 

serve to put that business in a way to obtain justice. The State api)ears 
to have been injured by the arrangement, and some of her Officers in 
consequence of it.^ 



35. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, 226. March, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The subject of the Dutch war engrosses the conversation here. The 
capture of St. Eustatius has interfered very deeply with the property of 
several merchants in the city, and some of the best ships belonging to the 
port have been lost in the fracas. I cannot think either from the whole 
circumstances of the case or from the tenor of the manifesto,' that Great 
Britain is persuaded the United Provinces will engage in a war, but 
rather that it is expected they will descend, as, I am sorry to say, they 
have sometimes formerly done to unworthy compliances and patch up the 
matter under conditions of ample indemnification in point of property, 
which no doubt Great Britain will ofifer. My hope is greater than my 
Confidence that the Dutch will not depart from the principles which have 
raised them to a nation, and given them rank among the powers of 
Europe, and knowing that your Excellency has a correspondence there 
and a reputation probably still more extensive than your correspondence, 
I take the liberty to suggest and observe what in all likelihood has already 
occurred, that letters dispatched forthwith to that country either directly, 
or by such circuitous conveyance as opportunity may present, will be of 
essential service. To this may be added, with good effect, candid stric- 
tures on the manifesto, which lies very open to remark and refutation. 
These may be published immediately here, they will soon find their way 
to Europe, and a request may be sent to publish them there as American 
sentiments. These things I beg leave to submit to your excellency's 
attention. 



23d March in the morning. 
It should seem by the last New York paper brought to town, and by 
some reports from below that either the French or British fleet have got 
into the Chesapeake, but it is doubtful which it may be. 

3 The Maryland letters to the board of war Feb. 2 and 12 are in Arch, of Md., 
XLV. 297, 308. The board made a report Mar. 7, which was referred to the committee 
mentioned by Carroll. 

On Mar. 13 the Maryland delegates, Hanson and Carroll, requested a three-months' 
allowance as delegates, adding, " We beg leave to premise that the Maryland State money 
does not pass here" {Arch, of Md., XLVII. 122). Governor Lee wrote Mar. 23, lament- 
ing "that it is not in our Power to supply you with any Money" {ibid., XLV. 361). 
Apr. 6 he reported the treasury in the same state of exhaustion {ibid., p. 379). Cf. nos. 47, 
93, 108, post. 

[35]' Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. UL, p. 219. 

^ See nos. 31, 32, ante, and no. 38, post. 



March, 1781 83 

36. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular Philadelphia March 23, 1781. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two Acts of Congress 
of the 1 6th and 23d Instant.' .... 

But what will more particularly claim the Attention of your Legislature 
as of great Importance is the requisition for six Millions of Dollars. 

It is with Reluctance that Congress are compelled to make this Requi- 
sition, but the absolute Necessity of the Case will appear so obvious that 
we presume the respective States will yield a ready and chearful Com- 
pliance therewith to the utmost of their Power. 

2^7. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

March 23, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I will give you on the next page the Result of that Appointment 
of a Com'tee of which you was one April 10. It is only giving Good 
Words to some of the Staff.'' 

You will find that we got very happily through a Resolve respecting 
Allen's Department at the Eastward. The Resolve has been transmitted." 

[P. S.] The Resolve was reconsidered and recommitted. I therefore 
tear it off. 

38. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia. March 24, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Excellency's two letters of the 8th 
instant, with the several papers to which they refer. The limitation of 
the Act impowering Congress to levy a duty, etc., to three years after 
the expiration of the present war, doth not comport with the resolution 
of Congress or answer the design of it. 

l36]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 42; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 142; Mass. Arch.. 
CCIII. 266; Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 
165 ; N. J. State Lib. ; Library of Congress, President's Letter- Book, p. 253 ; A^. /. Rev. 
Corr., p. 277. 

- The act of the i6th was that respecting the payment of debts in specie, and re- 
questing amendment of laws making bills of credit legal tender ; that of the 23d the requisi- 
tion for 6,000,000 dollars. 

[37]! Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 227. 

- See vol. v., no. 616. Apr. 10, 1780, a committee, consisting of Holten, Peabody, 
and Burke, was appointed to report upon proper compensation to the staflf of the army in 
consequence of the depreciation of the currency. This committee made a report (drawn by 
Holten) May 10, which was recommitted. Mar. 7, 1781, Thomas Burke, the only remain- 
ing member of the committee, brought in a report, which was adopted, but was recon- 
sidered and recommitted Mar. 9. It was evidently the resolve of Mar. 7 which Lovell, 
as mentioned in his postscript, tore off. See further the Journals, May 24, June 2, Oct. 5. 

3 Col. John Allen. See the Journals, F^h. 15. Lovell wrote also Mar. 23 to John 
Avery, secretary of the Massachusetts council, transmitting the resolves of Mar. 22 respect- 
ing the impost, debts, etc. Mass. Arch., CCIII. 267. 

[38]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 215. 



34 Continental Congress 

The proceedings of Congress relative to this subject, as also the several 
other despatches contained in your Excellency's letters, will be forwarded 
immediately after they are completed.^ .... 

Before this comes to hand your Excellency will probably have heard of 
the British manifesto and their violent attack upon the Dutch, their ship- 
ping and property, which must produce some important change of affairs 
in Europe.' 

I am once more earnestly to request that a delegate may be sent to 
relieve me as soon as possible. Genl. Wool cot and Col. Root both expect 
to leave Congress in the course of a few weeks, when the State will be 
unrepresented, and I cannot think of enduring the burden and confine- 
ment of my present situation another summer. 

39. Oliver Wolcott to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelp'a, 24th March, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been honoured with your Excellency's letter of the 7th instant, 
with the Constitution or Articles of Goverment of Connecticut in 1638. 
The renewed Charter of Charles the 2d has also been reed. Before these 
came to hand it became necessary to print the Constitution of our State 
according to the Act of Congress.^ .... 

Your Excellency will receive from the President a recommendation of 
Congress to the State to revise and amend their late law vesting the 
United States with power to collect certain dutys, so as that it shall com- 
port with the former recommendation of Congress on this head.^ The 
reasons for this recommendation are clearly stated in the Act of Congress. 
The non complyance of the State in the manner recommended gave some 
surprize, as Congress had been full in the opinion, not only with regard 
to the necessity but the justice and utility of the measure, but supposed 
that our State would have a clear interest in supporting it, as their 
consumption of foreign articles much exceeded their imports, and that 
the dutys, if they were not collected for a general benefit, would (as they 
had in this State began to be) levied for a local advantage, which would 
operate most unjustly, as the consumers must pay the tax, and conse- 
quently if they live in a different State would be charged with taxes for 
local and partial purposes for which they could not derive the least benefit, 
and would notwithstanding the payment of these taxes be charged with 
their full quota of debt to the United States. That this was a circumstance 
which when well understood by the States would produce severe alter- 
cations, if not timely prevented. It is true the Act of Congress does not 
propose that the States should have the exclusive right to regulate this 
affair, which perhaps it might have been well if it had provided for. But 

2 See no. 30, ante, and nos. 39, 52, post. 
" See nos. 31, 32, 35, ante. 
I39V Mass. Hist. See., Collections, seventh ser., VII. 210. 
2 See no. 38, ante. 
8 See nos. 30, 38, ante, and no. 52, post. 



March, 1781 35 

probably no State will enhance the duty for themselves. It was observed 
likewise that the Convention who met at Hartford had recommended 
the measure, and that Connecticut had commissioners in that Convention, 
and that the State had not signified their disapprobation of what had been 
done by them. The Assembly of this State are now sitting; it is said 
that they will adopt the measure, which, so farr as I have heard, is well 
approved of in this place. 

Your Excellency will likewise receive a recommendation that the States 
collect, in quarterly payments, six millions of dollars in specie or the new 
emission, beginning the first of June.* I shall make no other observation 
upon this measure than that it will be obvious that the portion assigned 
to Connecticut is too high compared with Massachusetts and some other 
States. In this Congress have governed themselves by former precedents, 
except by lessening the quotas of N. York and N. Carolina, and placing 
this deficiency proportionably on the other States. In this place I will 
observe to your Excellency that we have but the least reason to expect 
money from abroad. This has been so clearly communicated that we 
must depend upon it. 

The Commissary Genl. of Purchases complains that by reason of the 
scanty supplys of fresh provisions the army are fed with that which 
is salted, in a great measure. This circumstance will be severely felt the 
next summer unless rectified, as we are officially acquainted that a coopera- 
tion against the enemy is designed. The Commissary also says that there 
is a most unreasonable deficiency between the beeff charged the publick 
and what is delivered to the army. This accusation is general.' 

The rate of exchange here is 130 dollars old money for one in specie. 
This occasions vast quantitys to be sent on to the eastward; and indeed 
the people from thence are here buying the old money, as the exchange 
is so much lower there than here. I mention this circumstance, as I sup- 
pose that a depretiation at the eastward may be expected soon to take place. 
This old money is continually undulating from one part of the continent 
to the other, and productive of all the mischief which can attend a fluctu- 
ating medium. But I will make no observations, but state facts upon 
which your Excellency is the best able to judge with regard to what 
measures may be the most proper to be adopted 

40. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Phila[delphl\, March 24? 1781.] 
Sir, 

I wrote to [you sometime ago] informing you that I [planned to 
return] Home early in the Spring, [and I believe] that I mentioned to 
you the first of April. But wheither my Letters have been reed, by you 
I am not able to say. Mr. Huntington and Mr. Root will probably con- 

* See the Journals, Mar. 23. 

''' The letter of Ephraim Blaine, commissary-general, Mar. 8, was read Mar. 19 and 
a report upon it was made Mar. 23, but was not acted upon (see the Journals, p. 298 n.). 

[40]^ London, Congregational Library, Sprague Collection (addressed, "Hon. Oliver 
Ellsworth Hartfo[rd] Connec[ttcut] "). 



36 Contttientol Congress 

tiniie here till the latter end of April, at which Time they will Return. 
Wheither the State has supplied the Vacancies made in the Delegation 
by the Death of Mr. Hosmer and the Resignation of Col Adams 1 am not 
informed." I hojx; S'r that it will not be inconvenient for you or some 
other Gentleman to attend Congress by the Time when I shall leave it. 
1 shall think myself justified in Returning Home by the Time I purpose, 
as my Domestick affairs render it necessary, and as a confinement from 
Exercise has been injurious to my Health.^ 

I have no News but what you will find in the publick Papers. Congress 
are upon the Subject of Finance. But nothing has been lately effected 
upon this Head. My Compliments to Mrs. Ellsworth. 

I am Sir with much esteem 

Your most obedt. Servt. 

Oliver Wolcott 

41. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 24th, 1781. 
Sir, 

England has declared war with the States of Holland, .... 

Thus the unfortunate capture of Mr. Laurence's papers will probably 
be productive of the most fortunate events to America ; this is marvelous 
to consider 

The old Continental bills continue to depreciate, nor do I think it at 
all probable that any of the States will get their quota out of circulation 
by the time prescribed. I need not repeat to your Excellency the necessity 
I am under to return home by the middle of next month, and that the 
State will be without a representation unless I am relieved. I have en- 
closed the December Journals and some newspapers. 

P. S. The Minister of France has informed that the 2nd division will 
arrive early this spring, and wishes us to be ready to coopperate with them. 
.... The officers of the Convention troops are ordered to Simsbury, 
in Connecticut, or such place as your Excellency and Council shall order. 
I am informed there is about 40 in number and will be sent on directly.^ 

- Titus Hosmer, who had been chosen a member of the Court of Appeals, had died 
in August, 1780. The new election of Connecticut delegates took place in May, 1781. 
Andrew Adams had been chosen to the delegation in May, 1780, but had not attended. He 
was again chosen in May, 1781. A similar passage is in the letter to Governor Trumbull 
Mar, 24 (no. 39, ante; there omitted). 

^Wolcott obtained leave of absence Apr. 13 (cf. no. 52, post) and Root appears 
to have taken his departure shortly afterward. With regard to Huntington's retirement 
see the Journals, May 8, 10, July 6, 9, 10, and nos. 116, 190, post. Even at this time the 
question of the presidential succession appears to have been in agitation. See no. 23, note 2, 
ante. 

[4i]iMass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 214. 

2 See Richard Peters (for the board of war) to Governor Trumbull Mar. 26, ibid., 
III. 217. The order for the removal to Simsbury was adopted Afar. 23 {Journals, p. 301). 
Cf. no. 231, post. 



March, 1781 37 

42. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia, March 26, 1781. 
Sir, 

Congress have been pleased to refer to your Excellency the enclosed 
Letter of the 21st Instant from Colonel Wood, soliciting in Behalf of 
Lt. Colonel Hill the Liberty of being indulged his Parole to go to Eng- 
land, as also the Letter of the 20th Instant from Lt. Col. Dubuyson, 
desiring that a similar Favor for himself may be made the Condition on 
which Lt. Col. Hill's Request should be granted; if obtained 

The Circumstances of Lt. Colonel Dubuyson, from the Wounds he 
received at the Battle of Camden, seem to entitle him to an equal In- 
dulgence with the other Officer." .... 

43. James Lovell to Samuel Holten/ 

March 27th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You will have your wish as to Bermuda. All saving Clauses 
of former Resolves respecting that Island, and respecting Settlers and 
the Importers of Arms, etc. will be repealed unless so far as that the 
Repeal shd not condemn Vessels now in port or Bermudians with Salt 
only arriving before the ist of May. You will not publish my Communi- 
cations unless I send the Acts of Congress." I hope you will see that the 
unparallelled Distress of Congress in Money Matters leaves no Remedy 
but calling upon such States as are able to furnish enough for our Ne- 
cessities without affecting the true Quota which individual States ought 
to pay upon the confederal Principles. 

43A. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry.^ 

March 27, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I yesterday received your Favors of the 5th and 12th 

Baron Arendt would be very glad to be a Pensioner upon us in the 
military Line or to be sent as our Agent to Prussia. He had been home 
on Furlough for his Health, being burstan, he outstaid his Time, is not 
established, but having determined to come over again, The Cfuimber of 
Commerce in Prussia or Somebody of that Kind instructed him to inform 
them of the nature of American Commerce, which is no more than 

[43 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 255. 
- See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 5. 

[43]! £j.jf.r ]nst. Hist. Colls., XIIL 227. 

~ See the Journals, Mar. 16 (motion of Madison, p. 270), 26, 27 (the ordinance rela- 
tive to the capture and condemnation of prizes) ; cf. ibid., Aug. 9 (motion of Virginia dele- 
gates), 14 (pp. 861, 870). and nos. 234, 248, 257, 266, post. For earlier action relative to 
Bermuda see especially the Journals, Oct. 2, 22, 1775, June 5, 6, July 24, Aug. 2, 1776, 
Nov. 27, 1778. Apr. 19, 23, May 5, 7, i7, 18, 1779, Aug. 4, 11, 30, Sept. 22, 1780; see also 
vol. in., p. 320, vol. IV ., passim. 

[43AI1 N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Townsend-Gerry Papers, from the collection of Mrs. Annette 
Townsend Phillips, a descendant of Elbridge Gerry. 



38 Continental Congress 

what our commercial Com'tee ought to do to any American Officer who 
was going to serve abroad.^ .... 

1 dare not show your Vermont anecdote to Jemmy D as pious 

McDougal almost swore. 

For Conscience Sake weigh well our Request of the 5 pr. Cent Impost. 
I have sent to Mr. Avery a Resolve upon the Connecticutt Act : ' see it 
for your Information. He will make one of his Clerk's copy it upon yr. 
Request, if you are not at Boston. 

We shall this afternoon put an End to all favorable Exemptions which 
the Bermudians have had in the Admiralty Courts, and also to the Privi- 
ledges heretofore granted to Persons coming to settle.* .... 



44. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philada. March 27, 1781. 
Sir, 

On the receipt of your favor of the 22d of February inclosing the 
Memorial of Mr. Stodder and Kerr with the protests and affidavits an- 
nexed, we communicated the matter to Congress, and have obtained an 
instruction to the Hon'ble Mr. Adams to represent the same to the States 
General of the United Provinces, and to claim such redress for the 
Memorialists as justice and the law of Nations require. We have also 
received your Excellency's favor of the 15th instant relating to Mr. 
Nathan with the several papers under the same cover and shall carry your 
Excellency's wishes into execution in the best manner we can.^ 

Capt. de la Touche is arrived here from the French fleet, .... 

We have the honor to be with the most perfect respect and esteem y'r 
Excellency's Obt. and humble Servants 

James Madison Junr.® 
Theo'k Bland 



2 See vol. v., no. 599. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 15, 22. 
* See no. 43, ante. 

[44]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Jefferson's letter of Feb. 22, transmitting the memorial of Stodder, Kerr, and 
North, is in Official Letters, II. 370; his letter of Mar. 16 respecting Simon Nathan is 
ibid., p. 410. Concerning the memorial see the Journals, Mar. 26. On Mar. 27 was read 
in Congress a letter from Jefferson to the President, dated Mar. 21, giving an account of 
the action at Guilford Court House, as related to him by Capt. Anthony Singleton, who 
was in the action (Official Letters, II. 421). In a letter to Thomas Rodney Mar. 29 
Nicholas Van Dyke gave a summary of Jefferson's letter, adding, " This I call a very 
good account ; for if Greene is so strong as to attack the enemy, he only has to keep up 
the ball awhile, and he must effectually ruin his Lordship. Two more such victories would 
probably Burgoyne him and his veterans ". Henkels, Catalogue, no. 683, item 360, extract. 

8 Mar. 27 Madison transmitted to the auditors of public accounts for the state of 
Virginia his account as delegate in Congress from Dec. 20. 1780, to Mar. 20, 1781 (Va. 
State Lib., Executive Papers). 



March, 1781 89 

45. Thomas Bee to [John Laurens].* 

Philadelphia 28 March 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I flatter myself soon to hear of your safe arrival and success 
in your Negotiation. The Minister told me a few days ago the business 
you went on would be done ready to your hands, if so I shall expect the 
pleasure of seeing you 'ere long, th[ere] having been no attempts in 
Congress to delay you in Fran[ce] after the business you went on is 
compleated.^ You will see a piece in some of the late papers signed " an 
Independant American," the author said to be S'r Jas. Jay,' who applied 
to be sent Secretary to Doctr. Franklin but failing in that endeavoured 
to be Elected Secretary of the Marine, a new Establishment to which 
General McDougal has been appointed, this has chagrined the Knight 
and he takes this Method of venting his Spleen agt. Congress, but no 
Notice will be taken of his performance by them. The accession of Mary- 
land to the Confederation which is now compleated and a call of Congress 
on the States to enable them to lay a Duty on Imports, (which has been 
complied with already by some of them and I think will by all) to establish 
permanent funds for paying the Interest of their Debts, and give an 
additional credit to their paper money,* are two Events which I am hope- 
ful will enable them to carry on the War with more vigour than hereto- 
fore, the Duties are to be payable in Gold and Silver only, they have 
also recommended a repeal of all the Tender Laws, which will soon bring 
Specie again into Cirailation 

46. William Churchill Houston to Thomas McKean.* 

Trenton 31 March 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I left a Line for you at my Lodgings before I came out of Town, to 
which I make no Doubt you will give Attention, as the Subject of it is 
so nearly connected with the Justice and Honour of Congress. 

I will frankly confess to you that my mind labours under a Load of 
Anxiety respecting the Settlement of the Powers of the Superintendent 
of Finance, and indeed the whole Business of that Department.^ It appears 
to me that there is no Alternative. Those Powers, or similar ones, must 
be vested in some one Person, in Order to extricate our Affairs from the 

[45]^ ^- ^ • Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1206. 

- Concerning the mission of John Laurens see vol. V., no. 540, note 2. In the 5". C. 
Hist, and Geneal. Mag. (XXH. 87) is a letter from Ralph Izard to John Laurens, dated 
Mar. 27, likewise expressing the "hope that you may have executed the business that 
has been intrusted to you. with advantage to your Country, and honour to yourself". 
Izard, though not at this time a member of Congress, was evidently in close touch with 
the delegates from his state. 

3 Cj. no. 46, post. 
* See nos. 30, 38, 39, ante. 
[46] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 45. 

- McKean was a member of the committee on executive departments (see the 
Journals, Jan. 6), and Houston was chairman of the committee appointed Mar. 21 on Robert 
Morris's letter of Mar. 13. See the Journals, Mar. 14, 15, 20, 21, 29, 31, Apr. 20, 21, 26, 27, 
May 14; see also vol. V., no. 661, and nos. 14, 25 (note 2), ante. no. 48, post. 



40 Continental Congress 

Confusion in which they are at present involved. The Board of Treasury 
only make bad, worse. To go on in the present Train is absolutely im- 
possible. A total Stagnation must soon take Place, and Ruin cannot be 
far off. Were our Affairs in a State of Beginning, Powers so extensive 
would not be necessary; but perplexed, deranged and clogged with Abuses 
and Mismanagements as they are at present, it really appears to me that 
less Powers would be altogether unavailing. Economy is now our only 
Resort, our other Resources, you know, are reduced to a very narrow 
Compass. This Economy never will, indeed never can be introduced by 
a Body constituted as Congress is ; I venture to say it never will be 
practised by their Boards as they now are. They .seem to know Nothing 
about either getting Money or saving it. These things must, if they are 
ever well done, be the Work of one Mind. I am clearly convinced that 
our Affairs cannot be otherwise retrieved from their present desperate 
disjointed State with respect to Money-matters. 

I was in Congress but a very few Days, but during those few Days 
near 100,000 Dollars were voted to a Member or two of Congress, the 
Deputy- Secretary and a Clerk in the Treasury.^ Would not this have 
relieved many poor People who are almost starving for their Interest of 
money in the Funds, or almost ruined through the Failure, on our Part, 
of fulfilling Contracts? Who can justify these Things? and can Congress 
suppose they will be borne with ? And yet this will ever be the Case while 
the Expenditure of the publick Money is managed as at present. 

As to the Gentleman who is elected Superintendent of Finance, I have 
no great Acquaintance with him, nor more Predilection for him than any 
other capable and upright Man. He is acknowledged a Man of Abilities 
and Character, and I believe if he has Time given him will yet retrieve 
our Affairs, Almost hopeless as they are in that Line. But it is the Trust 
I speak of and not men. What he has to do cannot be done without efficient 
Powers, and Congress may at length see the Necessity of giving those 
Powers, when a less capable Man must have them. 

I foresee Clamours, Memorials and Resignations, but if Congress re- 
fuse a Measure on that Account, no Reformation will ever take Place. 
However Diana of the Ephesians is not so great as she was in the Year 
1778 and 9 when Men were paid a large percentage for contriving the 
Means of squandering the publick Money. See what a Man says of Con- 
gress in the Papers because he was disappointed of an Office.* 

If however [you] cannot think of conferring the Powers without Limi- 
tation, restrict them to the Duration of the present War, or to a Year, or 

3 Houston was in attendance at Congress from Mar. 21 to (probably) ^lar. 30, the 
day before this letter was written. The appropriations to which he refers were doubtless 
these : Mar. 23, 20,000 dollars of the old emission to Thomas Burke of North Carolina ; 
Mar. 27, 20,000 to George Bond, deputy secretary of Congress ; Mar. 27, 10,000 dollars 
to John L. Garkson, clerk of the board of treasury ; Mar. 29, 20,000 to Samuel Johnston 
of North Carolina. There was also a warrant for 20,000 dollars ordered ]\Iar. 31 to be 
issued to John Mathews, delegate for South Carolina, but it is doubtful whether Houston 
knew of this latter item. Including this, the aggregate is 90,000 dollars, and as the appro- 
priations were all in the " old emission " its actual specie value was small. According to 
the rate of exchange mentioned by Madison and Wolcott Apr. 3 (nos. 50, 52. f>ost), 
namely, 135 for i, the total of these appropriations would be 666^ dollars. 

* See no. 45, ante. 



April, 1781 41 

so many Years for Experiment. Desperate Diseases require peculiar 
remedies. The Power of Suspension you are convinced will not do. 
Trusting much to your Friendship and great good sense I have written 
freely, but I hope not impertinently. 

I am sincerely yours 

W. C. Houston 

47. John Hanson to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia Apl. 2d, 178 1. 
Sir, 

Mr. Carroll and T wrote to your Excellency and the Honorable Council 
by last post, requesting a supply of one thousand Dollars cash of the 
new Emission,^ but at the present Exchange, I find that Sum will be 
insufficient to answer my Immediate purposes. The exchange between 
gold and silver, and the Emissions of the i8th March Issued by the State 
of Maryland, is as 40 to 140, so that one silver Dollar is equal to three 
and a half. I must therefore request that my Sum may be increased to 
fifteen hundred Dollars — for which I will be accountable at the Exchange 
that may be settled by the State 

48. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, 2nd April 1781. 
Sir, 

.... We are not in the best Situation to oppose the British Efforts. 
The great Departments are very deficient in Supplies of every kind, and 
public Credit will not answer as a Substitute for Money. There are two 
Obsticles to that Energy and Vigor wch are absolutely necessary in the 
United States. In the first Place, the United States have not vested 
Congress, or any other Body, with the Power of calling out effectually 
the Resources of each State. The Articles of Confederation give only the 
Power of apportioning. Compliance in the respective states is generally 
slow, and in many Instances does not take Place. The Consequence is. 
Disappointment, and may be fatal. In the second Place, an extreme, 
tho perhaps well-meant Jealousy, in many Members of Congress, especially 
those of a long Standing, seems to frustrate every Attempt to introduce 
a more efficacious System. Prudent Caution against the Abuse of Power, 
is very requisite for supporting the Principles of republican Government ; 
but when that Caution is carried too far, the Event may, and probably 
will prove alarming. We have experienced a recent Instance of political 
Diffidence. Mr. Robert Morris of this City, has been chosen Financier. 
Previous to his final Acceptance, he insisted upon the Power of removing 

[47]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 50; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 159. 

~ See no. 34, note 3, anU, and nos. 93, 108, post. 
[48]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 47; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 334. 



4:2 Continental Congress 

from Office, all Persons entrusted with the Expenditure of the public 
Money, for Abuse, Fraud, etc., without being answerable, except to the 
party injured in the courts of law. Without this Authority, he despaired 
of introducing Economy, so essentially important at this critical Situation. 
A Majority decided against the Proposition. The consequence is, we are 
replunged into our old Situation, so agreeable to some Gentlemen, and 
I fear, shall not be able to effect a Reformation in Point of Revenew and 
Expenditure, wch some Time since, many of us hoped and firmly ex- 
pected.^ Sentiments of this gloomy Cast may appear, Sir, to some, as the 
result of a fickle or envious Disposition ; But beli[e] veme, I should be silent 
upon such Topicks, if I was not apprehensive of the most serious conse- 
quences. My Duty, or a mistaken Idea of it, obliges me to hazard a 
Conjecture, That the Time is not far distant when the present American 
Congress will be dissolved, or laid aside as useless, unless a Change of 
Measures shall render their Authority more respectable. Our Time is 
consumed in testing executive Business, while Objects of the greatest 
Magnitude are postponed, or rejected as subversive in their Nature, of 
democratical Liberty. If political and civil Liberty can be enjoyed amidst 
the Din of Arms, in their utmost platonic Extent, I confess my own 
Ideas are perfectly wrong; but if the kind of Government sufficiently 
energetic to obtain the Objects of Peace when free from invasion, is too 
feeble to raise and support Armies, fight Battles, and obtain compleat 
Victory, I know of but one eligible Resort in the Power of the United 
States. That is to form a Convention, not composed of Members of 
Congress, especially those whose political Sentiments have become inter- 
woven with their Habits, from a long Train of thinking in the same way. 
It should be the Business of this Convention to revise and refraim the 
Articles of Confederation ; To define the aggregate Powers of the United 
vStates in Congress assembled; fix the Executive Departments, and as- 
certain their Authorities. Many other matters, subservient to these general 
Ideas Would come before them, and their Powers should be extensive 
in point of Ratification; But the System to be by them adopted should 
expire at a given or limited Time. This plan, if rational and necessary, 
must be Recommended by the Legislature of some one State, as the same 
Policy which I have mentioned, will prevent a Recommendation taking 
Place in Congress. It would probably affect some Gentlemen in a Tender 
point, as having been in Congress more than three years, they might be 
deemed unqualified Members, wch offends them extremely when even 
hinted, altho the Articles of Confederation are very clear upon that head.^ 



2 See vol. v., nos. 621 (note 2), 654 (note 3), 661, and nos. 14, 46, ante. 

3 See nos. 19, 29, 30, ante, 64, 65, 209, post. Varnum's advocacy of a constitutional 
convention is one of the definite expressions on the subject at this period. Even before the 
adoption of the Confederation Schuyler had, in the New York legislature, been leading a 
movement to that end (see his letter to Washington Jan. 21, 1781, in Letters to Wash- 
ington, ed. Sparks, III. 213) ; and earlier still (Sept. 3, 1780) Alexander Hamilton had 
set forth his views in a letter to James Duane (Hamilton's JVorks, ed. J. C. Hamilton, 
I. 150-168). See also Duane to Washington Sept. 19, 1780, in vol. V. of these Letters; 
cf. Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 12-14, 29. 



April, 1781 43 

49. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell/ 

Philadelphia, April 2nd, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... We have reason to expect essential reinforcement from our ally: 
I am not at liberty to be more particular.^ There are many things I would 
wish to say as well regarding the public as my private affairs, but the 
fear of my letters miscarrying withholds me 

50. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philada. April 3d, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The letter from the Delegation by the last post informed you 
of the arrival of the Stores here which were to have been delivered in 
Virginia by one of the French Ships. The infinite importance of them 
to the State, especially since the arrival of a reinforcement to Arnold 
of which we are just apprized by the Marquis has determined the Dele- 
gates to forward them by land without loss of time. This will be attempted 
in the first instance in the channel of the Q. Master's Department and 
if it cannot be effected in that mode without delay we propose to engage 
private Wagons for the purpose on the credit of the State. Should the 
latter alternative be embraced, I find it will be necessary to stipulate 
instantaneous payment from the Treasury on the arrival of the Wagons 
at Richmond, in Specie or the old Continental currency to the real amount 
thereof. I mention this circumstance that you may be prepared for it. 
The expense of the transportation will be between five and six hundred 
pounds, Virginia Money. The exchange between specie and the old paper 
here at present is about 135 for i.^ . . . . 

51. Samuel Adams to Caleb Davis.^ 
« 

Philada. April 3 1781. 

Dear Sir, 

I have just receivd your favor of the 17th Ulto. by Mr. Dugan. The 

Request he proposes to make to Congress for Liberty to bring his Effects 

from Ireland, cannot be complied with consistently with the inclosed 

ordinance, which strictly forbids all Intercourse between the Citizens of 

the United States and the Subjects of Great Britain. There have been so 

[49]! McRee, Life of Iredell. I. 498. 

2 See the memorial of the mmister of France, in the Journals, Mar. 24 ; cf. nos. 12, 
15, ante. 

[50] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Madison Papers (ed. Gilpin), 
I. 84; Writings (ed. Hunt), I. 127. 

2 In Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 8, is a letter from Madison and Bland to Governor 
Jefferson pertaining in part to this matter of the stores. The omitted part of Madison's 
letter relates to certain Virginian refugees taken by the commander of the French squadron, 
Capt. Le Gardeur de Tilly of the ship L'Eveille, on his return from the Chesapeake to 
Newport. A representation from the delegates to the French minister, to which Madison 
refers, dated Apr. 2, is ibid., II. 4. See also Jefferson's letter to Tilly Feb. 28, Official 
Letters, II. 175; Writings (ed. Ford), II. 469, dated Feb. 25; cf. no. 94, post. 

[SiYWritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 253. 



44 Continental Congress 

many undue Advantages taken from Indulgences of this Kind, as to 
render the Continuance of them unsafe to us and disgustful to our ally. 
I shall always pay a due Regard to your Recommendations, and should 
have been particularly desirous of rendering Service to your Friend Mr. 
Dugan whom I personally know and of whose Integrity I have no Reason 
to doubt. ^ .... 

52. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman. ^ 

Philadelph'a, 3d April 1781. 

Your favour of the Ult. inclosing some Acts of our Legislature 
etc. have been received.^ .... 

The old money here is continually sinking, Exchange is 135 for one. 
Vast Quantities of this Money has been and is going on to the Eastward 
where the Exchange is not so great. But that will probably not long be 
the Case. This money exists [as] the opprobium of America, and I 
always tho't We ought to get rid of this Dishonour by cancelling the 
Bills as soon as possible. This I have long been convinced will not be 
effected by Taxation, some other equitable Mode ought therefore to be 
adopted to put an end to that Speculation and Injustice which is not only 
practiced by Individuals, but by one State to another. The Act of the 
i8th of March in its great Principle in my apprehension was just and 
necessary to be adopted. I wish that it had been farther extended. 
But the ignorance, the insiduous and unworthy Views of too Many 
Individuals perhaps rendered a more extensive Plan inexpedient. But 
Justice and publick Necessity will before long compel the States to adopt 
Measures more difinative with respect to their Money. 

This State has passed a Bill Vesting Congress with the Power to 
collect the Impost precisely according to their Requisition, this Day it 
is said that it will be passed into a Law of the State without scarcely any 
opposition. I was much surprised that Connecticut had adopted this 
measure in so partial a manner, not only as I am fully convinced that 
it is the only mode by which a Tax of this kind can be equitably laid. 
But as our State consume much more than they Import they have a 
particular interest in adopting the measure.^ .... 

My domestic affairs are such that I shall judge it my duty to leave 
congress soon. I expect to be at home about the 20th of this month. 

N. B 

The Eastern mail expected in here this week, I hear is taken and carried 
in to New York.* 

2 A petition of Cumberland Dugan, dated Sept. 7, 1780, had been laid before Congress 
Sept. 23, and an adverse report had been offered Sept. 29. The report does not however 
appear to have been adopted. The ordinance referred to was probably the resolves of Mar. 
23, 1776. Cj. vol. v., nos. 404, 409-412. 

[52P Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720; Conn. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Oliver Wol- 
cott, sr.. III. (copy). 

2 In October, 1779, Samuel Lyman had been appointed a member of the committee 
on pay table. 

3 See nos. 30, 38, 39, 45, ante. Wolcott discusses the merits of the measure. 

* The Royal Gazette of Apr. 4 announced : " On Saturday another Rebel Mail 
was brought to this City, taken last Thursday, with Montaigne the Post rider, who was in 



April, 1781 46 

53. James Duake, Draft of a Manifesto respecting 
Henry Laurens.^ 

[ccf. April 4, 1781.] - 
Congress see in the Treatment of the honourable Mr. Laurens formerly 
their President, and now one of their publick Ministers, a fresh proof of 
the sanguinary disposition of the Court of Great Brittain, and of how 
little Avail in their Estimation are the Laws of Nations sacred throughout 
all the rest of the civilized world, when opposed to the Intemperance 
which marks their publick Councils. It is now well known that Mr. 
Laurens in his passage to Europe was intercepted and conducted to Eng- 
land by a british Frigate: that on a warrant signed by three british 
Secretaries of State he was committed to the Tower of London; and 
that a Suspicion of Treason is assigned as the only Cause for his Im- 
prisonment : In short that the whole of this extraordinary procedure is 
calculated to fix upon this respectable Patriot the Odium and the Conse- 
quences of high Criminality. 

The Causes of our happy Revolution have so often been illustrated 
in the publick Appeals of Congress that it is unnecessary to discuss them 
minutely. It is our greatest Glory that they have produced such general 
Conviction of our Grievances our Rights and our moderation ! Conviction 
founded on the Basis of artless Truth, and not to be shaken by the sug- 
gestions of Malice. Is it not from these Sentiments that the profuse 

person brought to town by the captors. It contained a great number of letters in the bags 
from New England, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Fish-Kill, New Windsor, etc. The Public 
may depend on the genuineness of the following Letter." The letter referred to was from 
General Washington to Lund Washington, Mar. 28. In the issue of Apr. 6 was printed 
a letter from Oliver Wolcott, jr., to his father, dated at Hartford Mar. 25. In the issue 
of May 9 appeared a letter from Washington to Governor Benjamin Harrison of Virginia, 
dated Mar. 27. 

[53]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, XIII. 45. 

- On Dec. 21, 1780, a committee (Duane, Witherspoon, and Burke) was appointed 
" to take into consideration the case of the hon. Henry Laurens, made a prisoner on his 
passage to Europe, and said to be committed to the tower of London, on suspicion of high 
treason, and to report thereon ". On Mar. 2, 1781, the committee brought in a report, drawn 
by Witherspoon, but action was postponed, and the report is named in the list of reports 
presented Aug. 2^, 1781, which "ought not to be acted upon". On Apr. 3 Thomas Bee 
offered a motion, seconded by McKean, that the commander-in-chief be directed to recall 
General Burgoyne and other officers, prisoners of war, who were absent from America on 
parole, " unless the Honorable Henry Laurens, Esqr., be also enlarged on his parole ". 
The motion was adopted, except for the clause respecting Laurens, which stands erased in 
the Journals. However, it was ordered the same day that the committee on the case of 
Laurens bring in " a manifesto on that subject ". This production by Duane is evidently 
the committee's compliance with that order. Although it is placed here under Apr. 4, 
as in all probability the first day on which the manifesto could have been offered in Con- 
gress, it is altogether probable that it was never presented to Congress at all. In any 
event the Journals contain no reference to the presentation of the manifesto by the com- 
mittee, neither has a report of this character been found among the papers of Congress. 
Nevertheless Laurens's case continued to receive consideration. On June 11 a committee 
on letters of General Moultrie and a memorial of officers who were prisoners of war at 
Charleston presented a report (drawn by George Walton) dealing in part with Laurens's 
case ; on June 14 it was resolved to offer General Burgoyne in exchange for Laurens, who, 
on the same day, was chosen to be one of the peace commissioners. See no. 54, post; 
also Madison's motion of Dec. 3 (Journals). The question of exchange subsequently 
shifted from Burgoyne to Cornwallis. See nos. 365, 402, 423, post. 



46 Continental Congress 

offers of our Enemies for Succours, to every power of Europe, upon 
whom they hoped to make an Impression, have, with very few Exceptions, 
been disdainfully rejected ? Is it not from these Sentiments that we have 
been supported by the Arms of France and Spain and honourd by the 
Approbation and good wishes of every Friend to mankind! Indeed the 
Policy of the british Councils immediately after the Close of the last 
War — a War rendered succesful by our vigorous Cooperation — can never 
be received without Astonishment and Indignation! While the mouths 
of their King and Parliament were filled with our Praises, While we were 
warmed with the Expressions of their gratitude and their unsolicited 
Grant of a Reimbursement for what it was confessed we had advanced 
beyond our proportion and our Abilities — An Arbitrary and ruinous 
System of administration was adopted for enslaving the Colonies. With- 
out the shadow of authority; in defiance of our Constitution, Charters 
and Usages, in violation of our Natural Rights as Men; of our priviledges 
as freemen ; of our Equality as Subjects of one Common Sovereign their 
Parliament arrogated a Right to controul and dispose of us at their own 
Pleasure. A Parliament confined to the Representatives of the Freehold- 
ers and Citizens of the Island of Great Brittain alone! A Parliament 
equally indifferent to our Applause or our Resentment; ignorant of our 
Wants and our Circumstances enriched by our Oppressions; and in all 
Subjects of Impost and Taxations independent of Interference of the 
common Sovereign. A Parliament so totally independent of the Colonists 
that they held it inconsistent with their Dignity to receive a Petition 
praying for Redress of a Grievance. Such a Parliament elevated to office 
by Venality and exercising its functions under the absolute controul of a 
Minister : had the Insolence to declare that they and their Successors coud 
of right bind the Colonists in All Cases whatsoever, in their Consciences 
their Jurisdictions their Lives their Liberty their property! A Discrimina- 
tion so fatal to social Liberty, and which reduced us from Members of a 
free Government, to the Condition of Slaves to our fellow Subjects coud 
not fail of spreading universal alarm. Before the first Sessions of Con- 
gress in 1774 this Parliament had proceeded without Reserve to pass the 
most irritating and unconstitutional Acts : Such were those for imposing 
Duties for the purpose of raising a Revenue in America for extending 
the power of Admiralty beyond their proper Limits depriving the Ameri- 
can subject of his Trial by Jury and for creating a new offense in 
America and subjecting the Accused to be transported for Trial and 
Punishment to England; and for stopping up the Harbour of Boston 
Altering the Charter and Government of the Massachusetts bay. To these 
grievous and oppressive Acts and measures America coud not submit; 
but it was resolved to try the effect of a Commercial Opposition; of an 
Appeal to the People and a Remonstrance to the King of Great Brittain. 
It was not believed that Justice and Humanity coud be banished from an 
enlightened Nation, or that they who so highly valued the Blessings of 
Liberty woud persist in the disgraceful office of forging Chains for 
their Friends and Children. Will future ages believe that — instead of 



April, 1781 47 

Redress our Just Remonstrances produced Contempt, a denial of Justice, 
and a formidable Armament to compell us to unconditional Submission? 
Is it then seditious that we refused tamely to surrender the Rights of 
Men, and the Blessings of Liberty, handed down to us by the Virtue and 
the Valour of our Ancestors ? Is it seditious that we opposed the Strokes 
of Arbitrary power when we were furiously invaded? Tyrants alone are 
incapable of discerning the distinction between a rebellion and a just 
Resistance against intolerable and high handed Oppressions. The estab- 
lishment of the Liberties of the Netherlands and the Swiss Cantons ; and 
the Transfer of the Crown of Great Brittain from the Stewart Line to 
the House of Hanover are Examples of Succesful Resistance against 
Arbitrary power which are commended and Justified by our Enemies. 
On the Lawfulness of such Resistance their present Government is estab- 
lished. A wise Prince woud have felt the force of Principles which are 
the Basis of his Throne. He woud have perceived that Patriotism is 
more than a name since it encircles his Brow with a Diadem. He woud 
have abhorred the suggestion that a Respect for the Rights of Mankind 
is incompatible with the Social Duties. 

Let us consider the Nature and the Rights, of a Civil War, according 
to the Law of Nations; and apply its Maxims to the Condition of the 
United States : Hence we shall more clearly perceive how destitute of 
foundation is the Attempt of the british Court to impute to Mr. Laurens 
the Crime of suspicion of Treason, against that Government. 

" If there be War between part of the Citizens on one side with the 
Sovereign and those who continue in obedience to him on the other, it is 
sufficient that the mall contents have some Reason for taking arms to 
give this disturbance the name of civil War and not that of Rebellion. 
This last Term is only applied to such Insurrection as is void of all Appear- 
ance of Justice. The Sovereign never indeed fails to term Rebells all 
subjects openly resisting him : but where these become of strength to 
oppose him so that he finds himself compelled to make war regularly 
on them he must be contented with the Term of Civil War." " Things 
being thus situated it is very evident that the common Laws of war 
founded on maxims of Humanity moderation and probity are in civil 
wars to be observed on both sides. The same Reasons on which the 
Obligation between State and State is founded render them even more 
necessary when two incensed parties are destroying their common Coun- 
try. Shoud the Sovereign conceive he has a Right to hang up his Prisoners 
or to burn and destroy [,] the opposite party will follow the Example 
and the War become cruel and horrid." Thus we are taught by the Law 
of Nations ; and how applicable are these maxims to the Events of the 
present war! Have not the Efforts of the Enemy been serious powerful 
and persevering? have they not wasted the Lives of mighty Armies and 
expended countless millions to reduce us to Slavery? Have we not in 
the face of their fleets and :\rmies and in the high Tide of ^ 

3 The remainder of the draft is missing. 



48 Continental Congress 

54. The President of Congress to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia April 5, 1781. 

I have the Honor of transmitting your Excellency the enclosed Resolve 
of the 3d Instant, directing the Recall of Lieut. General Burgoine and 
all other Officers Prisoners of War now absent on their Paroles from 
America to return immediately 

It is proper to inform your Excellency, that this Resolution is adopted 
in Consequence of Information, that the late President Laurens is con- 
fined in the Tower of London as a State Criminal, under Pretext of his 
being guilty of treasonable Practices 

Should this Resolution embarrass or impede any Measures your Ex- 
cellency may have adopted relative, or preparatory, to a general Exchange 
of Prisoners, it is taken for granted you will please to represent the same 
to Congress previous to any Proceedings for carrying the Resolve into 
Execution,^ .... 

55. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

<-.. Philadelphia April 7, 1781. 

I have the honor to enclose copies of letters received this morning which 
from their importance it is judged necessary to communicate to you with 
all possible Expedition.^ « 

56. William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene.^ 

,^ , _ , Philadelphia April 7th, 1781. 

My dear General, 

I have received your very obliging letter of the 18th ulto. and am the 

more thankful, as I know you can afford but little time to correspond 

with individuals. The sufferings, distresses and losses of your army 

pains me to the heart, and be assured that for some time past there is 

nothing in our power unattempted for your relief, altho our embarrass- 

[54]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 260. 
2 See the Journals, Dec. 21, 1780, Mar. 2, Apr. 3, 4, 1781 ; also no. 53, ante, and 
nos. 73, 164, 168, post. 

[55]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 261 
(" N. B. The like to the Presidents of Pennsylvania and Delaware and the Governors of 
Maryland and Virginia") ; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 36; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 
166. 

2 The enclosures were the letters of Governor Livingston (Apr. 5) and Gen. David 
Forman (Apr. 2), read in Congress Apr. 7 (Journals, pp. 359, 365 n.), giving news of 
Clinton's embarkation. Copies of them are in the Washington Papers, and also with the 
Maryland letter. It was ordered that they be sent also to the executives of Pennsylvania 
(see Reed to Speaker Muhlenberg Apr. 7, Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 61), Delaware, and 
Virginia. See further the Journals, Apr. 8, and nos. 58, 75-78, 80-82, 85, post ; also a letter 
from the Maryland council to the special council of the Eastern Shore, Apr. 10, in Arch, 
of Md., XLV. 390. . 

The letter to Washington bears an endorsement, " information that the Enemy mean to 
take a post in Delaware. Ans'd 12th ". The letter to Maryland is endorsed, " with Intel- 
ligence from the northward ". 

[56]^ William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers; Library of Congress, Personal, 
Ac. 2009 (copy). 



April, 1781 49 

ments are infinite. And give me leave also, my dear Sir to assure you, 
that your conduct and your officers and men, especially of the permanent 
part of your army, is not only universally approved (as far as I have 
heard) but even admired. 

We have just now received intelligence from New Jersey copies of 
which is enclosed. I can scarcely believe it is Sir Henrys object to come 
into the Delaware, but it is not altogether improbable, in order to divert 
the Pennsylvania line from going to the southward. That line is now 
ready to march a detachment of 1000 men if they were paid 37,000 
dollars new emissions which will soon be ready for them. 

Ere this reaches you, you will have heard of the operations of the 
French and British fleets on this coast — the former, altho disaix>inted, 
deserve great praise. 

Not a word of the arrival of the second division of French nor of the 
cloathing and stores for the Army. Inclosed I send you a copy of an 
inquiry and report of the board of Admiralty on that and other subjects, 
to show that the blame does not lie on Congress nor Doer. Franklin. 
Of this the Army and the Legislature ought to be acquainted. 

The copy would have been certified by the secretary of Congress, but 
you will observe that it is not their Act, only an enquiry and report for 
their information. It is nevertheless a true copy which I have procured 
for your particular information. 

We have not heard the effects, in europe, of England's declaring war 
against the united Provinces — their Navy must be greatly weakened by 
the captor of so many seamen as England must take before they can look 
about them. 

I am in great haste, the express waiting 

Be so obliging as to make my best compliments to the Officers under 
your command. With the highest sentiments of esteem and respect I 
have the honor to be Dear Sir your most obt. Humble Servt. 

Wm, Sharpe 

57. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, April 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... You will easily judge that great delay in the deliberative 
councils of so numerous a body as Congress must necessarily take place ; 
add to this, that the frequent change of the members does in almost every 
instance break in upon the best digested systems, and renders inefficient 
the best concerted measures. Much time is too often spent in debate, and 
there is no man of sufficient credit or influence to take the lead, or give 
a tone to the business. Another circumstance which prevents Congress 
from taking its measures with a greater degree of confidence and decision 
is, the inattention which the States pay to the measures recommended by 
that body. I am fully satisfied that if the States would implicitly comply 
with every requisition of Congress, even when the propriety of the 
measure was not evidently apparent, it would be attended by the most 

[57 ]i McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 500. 



50 Continental Congress 

salutary consequences, as there is not the least reason to doubt but Con- 
gress, both as a body and individually, are disposed to do what is right, 
and appear to me in almost every instance that has fallen within my obser- 
vation to be actuated by the most virtuous and disinterested motives. In 
a few, very few instances, I have suspected individuals to be influenced 
by local or personal considerations, and this less often than might be 
naturally expected in so large a body. 

Never was a poor fly more completely entangled in a cobweb than 
Congress in their paper currency. It is the daily subject of conversation 
in that body; but our situation is so very intricate and delicate that I have 
as yet heard no proposal that is not subject to numberless objections. 
Dr. Burke, who is to be the bearer of this, has just called to tell me he is 
not to leave this for some days. 

April I2th. I was in hopes to have had some European intelligence 
before I closed this letter ; but Doctor Burke is to go in the morning, and 
there is nothing authentic from that quarter 

Your own discretion will direct you not to make my sentiments on 
this subject public; should you mention them to any of our particular 
confidential friends, 1 hope they will be cautious to keep it secret as 1 
would not wish that anything which drops from me should occasion any 
degree of despondence 

58. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia April 9th 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed an Act of Congress of the 8th 
Instant recommending to the Executives of the States of Delaware, Mary- 
land and Virginia respectively to take immediate measures for the removal 
of all public stores, and also all provisions and forage public and private 
which will not be necessary for the consumption of the Inhabitants on 
the Peninsula between the Chesapeak and Delaware Bays, to prevent such 
articles falling into the enemy's hands: I should suppose it equally ex- 
pedient to include valuable horses tho' they are not mentioned in the Act. 

This recommendation is in consequence of intelligence received from 
New York the substance of which is prefixed to the enclosed act, although 
it is presumed you will have received the intelligence before this comes 
to hand. 

As future events must determine with certainty the designs of the 
enemy, so future intelligence may influence the measures now recom- 
mended, yet it is to be hoped such precautions may be taken as will prevent 
any valuable supplies of any kind falling into the enemy's hands should 
they attempt to execute their designs as reported." 

[58]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book. 
p. 263 ("N. B. The like to President Rodney and Matthew Tilghman Esquire") ; Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIIL 38; Arch, of Md., XLVIL 174 (to Matthew Tilghman). The 
letter to Rodney was listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1189, item 211. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 8 ; c/. no. 55, ante, and nos. 75-78, 80-82, 85, post. A special 
session of Congress was held Sunday evening, Apr. 8, to take action upon the intelligence 



April, 1781 51 

59. The President of Congress to Thomas Rodney/ 

Philada. April 9, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am directed to request your Attendance in Congress as soon as possi- 
ble. There are but eight States at this Time represented in Congress, 
a Circumstance by no Means proper in the present Situation of Affairs 

As Chief Justice McKean sets out this Day on the Circuit to be absent 
some Time, it is necessary that two Delegates from the Delaware State 
give their Attendance immediately.' 

N. B. The like to Mr. Vandyke. 

60. The President of Congress to William Churchill Houston.* 

Philada. April 9, 1781. 

Sir, 

By Direction of such Members as are present I am to request your 

Attendance in Congress as soon as possible. It is to be hoped you may 

arrive by the Time of meeting to morrow- 
There are at present but eight States represented, which will probably 

remain to be the Case until you arrive, a Circumstance in the present 

Situation of public Affairs by no Means proper or agreeable.* 

61. Thomas Rodney, Diary. ^ 

[April 11-14, 1781.] 
Aprill iith. this day I took my Seat in Congress again." 
[April 12'] A Letter from Genl. Washington being read Setting forth 
that there was the greatest necessaty for the detachment of 1200 men 
under the Marquis now at the head of Elk, and the Pensylvania line to 
go to the Southward, and that he was fearful they Could not go etc. with 
pay etc' 

received of Clinton's embarkation. The board of war wrote to the governor and also to 

the executive council of the Eastern Shore, Apr. 13. that the commissary-general of pur- 
chases had been given orders to remove the stores, and requested assistance (Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, VII. 213). See also Arch, of Md.. XLV. 406. Matthew Tilghman was 
president of the executive council of the Eastern Shore. 

[59] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 264. 

2 The. original letter to Rodney was listed in Henkels, Cataloyiie. no. 1236, item 11. 
.\ like request was addressed to William Churchill Houston (no. 60, post). See also 
no. 74, post. A committee appointment Apr. 12 suggests that McKean was still in atten- 
dance on that day. 

[60] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 265. 
2 Cf. no. 59, ante. 

[61]^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 Rodney says (no. 23, ante) that he returned to Philadelphia Apr. 10. 

3 The letter from Washington here referred to was evidently that of Apr. 8 ( Writ- 
ings, ed. Ford, IX. 207, ed. Sparks. VIII. i), which. acc(jrding to the Journals, was read 
in Congress Apr. 12. This record in the Diary should no doubt have borne the date Apr. 12. 
It is to be observed that no entry bearing that date lies between this and that for Apr. 13. 
In connection with the letter of Washington to Congress see his letters to Lafayette 
Apr. 5 and 6, and that to Wayne Apr. 8 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VII. 468, 469, 472). 



62 Continental Congress 

In this case it appeared that the detachment under the Marquis, as 
well as the pensylvan'a expected pay to be advanced them beside paying 
up arrears, and it did not appear that there was money in the Treasury 
sufficient for this and other purposes without Calling for the 6/10 of the 
new money subject to the order of Congress ; and that a sufficient quantaty 
of the old Money had not yet been reed, to enable them to Call for this 
portion of the new money agreable to the Resolution of the i8th of March. 
However a motion was made that Congress should Call for the whole 
6/10 of the new Money immediately, and it was argued by the movers 
that it was absolutely necessary that the troops should march immediately 
to the Southward, that they would not march without the pay and arrears 
which they expected, and that Congress had no other means of paying 
them but by taking and applying that money. This was warmly opposed 
because it was alledged that it would totally subvert the intention of the 
Resolution of the i8th of March, besides that the money in question being 
issued by the special authority of the respective States Congress Could 
not take it Contrary to the Tennor of their Laws. 

After a Multitude of arguments on both sides this plan was set aside 
and another introduced. It was alledged that the Assembly of Pensylvania 
had appointed a Committee to borrow as much of this money of Congress 
in the Loan Office of that State as would pay their line and that they 
would repay Congress again by the first of June, and by this Consent of 
that State Congress might draw that 6/10 of the new money and there- 
fore it was moved that Congress should lend the State of Pensylvania 
four hundred thousand dollars on the Condition of their paying it again 
by the first of June, To enable the State to satisfly their troops that they 
might March immediately to the Southward and the necessaty of the 
Case was strongly urged to induce this. But it was objected that this 
would give Pensylvania an undue advantage of the other States, and that 
there could be no reliance on that States repaying the money, or they 
would have provided for this exigency before this time as it was known 
to them so long ago, that twenty eight thousand pounds would pay those 
troops, therefore the sum mentioned was more than necessary and indi- 
cated some other application. But that at any rate If Congress paid those 
Troops out of their own Money, or Lent it to Pensylvania which is the 
same thing it would occasion a mutiny in the other troops who had a right 
to expect as much of Congress as those of Pensylvania etc. etc. The argu- 
ments on this subject took the day and at last the plan was rejected and 
two other plans offered by a Gent, from Virginia and one from Massi- 
chusets was refered to a Committee of five.* 

([Following this account of proceedings in Congress is the following 
passage, commenting upon the conduct of business in that body:] 

It is to be lamented that Congress is so deficient in the abilities of 
Financing that no member is capable of offering a System that is worthy 
the Establishment of Congress, none whose Ideas are at the same time 
both simple and Systematical enough for this purpose. Both the plans 

* The two plans referred to were offered by Oliver Wolcott of Connecticut and 
Meriwether Smith of Virginia, respectively, found in the Journals, pp. 2>7^, t,-;^. 



April, 1781 53 

now ofifered are deficient in this respect. They are both too Complex 
and inchoherent to be admited, therefore will probably occasion much 
debate and no Effect. While our affairs related to simple Constitutional 
questions only the Americans appeared great, indeed because every man 
was naturaly raised up a midst the most pure and Clear principles of 
Liberty that ever has been practiced or enjoyed by Society. But having- 
paid very little or no attent'ion to the study of useful knowledge farther 
than was necessary to Conduct their own occupations, now their matters 
has grown Complex and extensive they appear unable to Conduct them 
in the best manner, notwi[th] standing the advantages of Litrature, 
and the sciences which they have made a rapid progress in and are not 
deficient on that account. This has confirmed me in what I always 
thought best, that is, that the Study of useful knowledge is of much 
greater advantage in the great affairs of state as well as in Common 
business of life, and that a refined and even extensive knowledge in the 
Languages and siences is of very little use unless Connected with, and 
used as the aid of useful knowledge — That is a right understanding of 
men and things, their passions, dispositions, properties, qualities, and 
use, Considered both simple and Compound, by practice and Experiment 
regulated by theory as near as may be. 

Aprill i^th. Great part of the time of Congress being taken up by 
the Consideration of various officers and others particularly for Money, 
it was now, in substance resolved that such applications hereafter shall 
be made In the first Instance to the Auditors Treasury etc. etc. to be 
adjusted and allowed by them agreable to general principles directed by 
Congress from time to time. 

A resolution was moved by Genl. Varnum, introduced by words like 
the man himself, arora borialis fine indeed but not well adapted to the 
occasion for Conferring on John Paul Jones what he well deserved — The 
Thanks of Congress and a gold Meddal, for his truely brave and splendid 
action as a naval officer. 

These favours were opposed in some measure as untimely by that 
Cautious Senator S. Adams, who only urged that such favours being the 
highest in the power of the States (and next to those of Heaven) aught 
to be granted with cautious delibration. But it was alledged that the 
Services for which these favours were urged had been known to Congress 
and the World, that no further dilibration was necessary. However as 
the resolution wanted amendment it was Committed. 

[At this point in the Diary are recorded the following reflections on 
money and the Revolutionary finances :] 

Previous to the revolution, there not being enough gold and silver 
money in america to Serve as a circulating medium the deficiency was 
made up by paper money which being issued in such quanti[ti]es only 
as was found absolutely necessary for that purpose and redeemable by 
Certain funds, it always passed at the Value Stamped thereon in all the 
provinces, where these essentials were adhered to. But in New England 
where they Issued too much on account of the last War the money depreci- 



64 Continental Congress 

ated to 1/20 part of its nominal Value. Upon the Commencement of Hos- 
tilities between great Brittain and America, the Congress finding that the 
greatest part of the specie had been sent out of the Country, and that this 
together with the total Stoppage of trade put it out of their power to 
lay taxes, began to Issue paper money upon no better fund than their 
pledging the faith of the States that it should be redeem'd with specie 
agreable to the Value stamped on the Bills. The Virtue of america co- 
operating with the necessity of the Case prevailed so far that while this 
money amounted only to the quantaty of a necessary Circulating medium 
it passed Current in all the Colonies at its nominal Value — Till 1777. 
But Congress finding they had such a ready and easy fund to support 
the war neglected the economy and other steps necessary to keep the 
quantaty within these bounds. And the stafif and purchasers for the army 
finding how they might lavish it away and amas fortunes took advantage 
of the Case, and made occasion for such large emissions that the quantaty 
soon began to Co-operate with the endeavours of the disaffected, in de- 
preciating it, And congress took no wise or valuable step to Check or 
prevent this 'till too late, and then every endeavour they made was so 
unfortunately Contrived that it still increased the evil. Tender Laws were 
made, two large Missions were called in, all increased the doubts and 
fears of the people respect'g the money. Congress then confirmed the 
depreciation by settleing a regular scale as far as 40 for one— and Stoped 
issuing at the sum of 200,000,000 Dollars. 

The depreciation still proceeded rapidly so that the Taxes Collected 
for publick use would not answer the demands and the Congress pressed 
by necessaty adopted the system of the i8th of March 1780. This being 
materially defective in several things and particularly in having the exe- 
cution of it Committed to the respective States, they proceeded upon it 
in different modes so that the good effects that might have flowed from 
it were in a great measure lost by this means. And now that the States 
are in the utmost distress for want of money they feel little or no 
relief from that System because they Cannot Command the use of the 
new money for want of the old having [been] timely exchanged, and what 
they have being depreciated in the very issuing by tying it to the old money 
at a Certain exchange which differs in most of the states etc. etc. etc. 
it does not answer the wished for purpose. When we Consider the use 
of Money, and what it is that makes it useful it is no wonder that our 
Revolution paper money has all failed, there not being any essential fund 
to support it. 

We are therefore now greatly in debt, and have not money to pay them ; 
and most that has been paid since the Money depreciated, have been 
Cheated by this means out of what was their Just dues, and the rest have 
no Certain security for what is due them, only a late resolution of Con- 
gress that they shall be paid the real Value of their debts. 

Suppose then that all the debts now due from the United States to 
Individuals should be duly liquidated at their Value in specie and the 
Creditors receive Publick bills or Loan ofiice Certificates Promissing pay- 
ment in a few years with interest annually. And the united States provide 



April, J/8i 56 

a fund immediately by an impost on Goods or otherwise for the Certain 
payment of both interest and principle agreable to the tener of such Bills, 
And at the same time provide a fund for Carrying on the war by Laying 
a Land Tax of one penny per acre or more if necessary for repayin[g] 
any sum (with annual interest) that they may have occasion to borrow 
for that purpose, the principle to be paid in 7, 10, or 15 years etc. 

Aprill 14, lySi. The Compliment to Captn. J. P. Jones was reported 
in more decent language and the Thanks of Congress agreed to but the 
question on the Medal postponed. Mr. S. Adams urged on this occasion 
that the american Sea men in Europe ought to receive their prize money, 
that Captn. Jones was concerned in this, that enquiry ought to be had etc. 
Mr. Sharp one of the admiralty members said that the papers produced 
by Captn. Jones cleared him from fault in this and all the political disputes 
of our Agents etc. etc. in Europe. That it appeared by those papers a 
man lately high in office in Eu. was concerned in advising Captn. Landa 
to run from there with the Alliance which occasioned the delay of the 
Cloathing for the army, that the same gentleman was concerned in the 
mutiny that happened on board the Allyancc. Mr. Mathews delivered 
in a Scheme for funding the Continental debt and for mortgaging 
5,000,000 acres of the back lands as a fund to borrow money on the inter- 
est of all to be paid by an impost on goods etc. Committed to the Com- 
mittee of finance. 

62. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia April 14, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, a Resolve of Congress of the 
13th Instant, relative to the Mode adopted to pay the new Levies, recom- 
mending it to the several States to maJce Payment 

The former Part of this Resolve respecting the new Levies, I presume 
is intended for those only who served the last Campaign, and if any of 
them have received partial Payments from their regimental Paymasters, 
which is probable as I am informed by the Paymaster General, Care should 
be taken to transmit the same to the respective States. 

63. John Mathews to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia April 16: 1781. 
Dear sir, 

I mentioned in my last, that by the first good opportunity, I would 
communicate to yr. Exc'y some thoughts respecting the present political 
state of affairs — such as they appear to me.^ perhaps my opinions may 
differ, from the generality of your correspondents, as I know many are 

[62]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 267. 
[63]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 66, vol. L, f. 351. 

2 Such a letter does not appear to be among the Washington Papers. 



66 Continental Congress 

but too apt to keep their eyes constantly fixed on the pleasing side of 
the picture, and feel an aversion to take a View of the reverse, or if they 
do, endeavour by the most specious colourings to extenuate it's deformi- 
ties, and if possible cast a veil over the whole. The lines T now address 
to your Exc'y will convince you, I am not one of those botchers. I repre- 
sent things as they really are. Your station sir, entitles you to the most 
unreserved communications. The friendship you have done me the honor 
sir to entertain for me demands it of me. Yet it is with reluctance I 
enter on the task, well knowing your Patriotic bosom is already, suffi- 
ciently torn with the embarrassments you daily encounter, and pants for 
some friendly hand to pour balsam into the wound, but still is incapable 
of shrinking from increased pain. Accept this apology most worthy sir 
for the unpleasant theme, which justice to your conspicuous station bids 
me discuss in the most fair and unequivocal language. 

I have for some time past contemplated the state of our affairs with 
extreme anxiety, which was not a little increased by the contents of your 
last letter to Congress : ^ the information it contained astonished me, as we 
had been repeatedly told that the battalions eastward of Hudsons river 
were nearly compleated. What must the friends of America think of 
their cause when they see so small a body as twelve hundred men * col- 
lected for a particular purpose, and the United states cannot command 
as much money, as will enable them to march? — another body of men 
ordered to march "^ and such a disposition manifested by them, that there 
was not time to wait your orders, but the interposition of a collateral 
power became immediately necessary to stop them, to prevent further 
evils ? When our creditors are daily clamouring around us, for their just 
dues, and those excuses so long held out to them for with-holding pay- 
ment, can no longer be made use of with the least degree of propriety? 
Our army — God knows how long — in arrear for their pay, and I much 
fear will, in a very little time, be in want of bread ? — as this state informed 
us, they could purchase no flour, unless we would lend them the money — 
The army not only in want of pay, but almost every necessary? the 
southern army, literally in want of every necessary? No manner of 
preparations going forward, for military stores for the ensuing campaign? 
— which is coming fast upon us, nay, which may be said to be arrived — 
although we daily expect the arrival of a large reinforcement from our 
Ally, which we solemnly engaged to be in respectable condition to co- 
operate with, on their arrival? Were I to enter into minutiae, I should 
tire your patience in perusing the black catalogue — enough has been said. 
This sir is the true picture of our affairs, and I do boldly assert that 
Congress have not a single means in their power, to remedy either the 
one or the other of these accumulated evils, and what is above all, worse, 
there does not appear to me a disposition to endeavour at it. Whenever 
the subject is brought forward, men seem to shrink from it as if the 
case was desperate. 

8 Probably Washington's letter of Apr. 8. See no. 6i, note 3, ante. It is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), IX. 207, (ed. Sparks), VIII. i. A letter of Apr. 12, read Apr. 16, which also 
pertained to the weakness of the army, is in Pa. Arch., first sen, IX. 71. 

* Pennsylvania line (note in original). 

^ The Marquiss's detachment (note in original). 



A^il, 1781 57 

It is true, Congress have called on the States for 6,000,000 of dollars — 
they calculate upon 4,000,000 out of the new money — as well as upon 
5,000,000 from the Court of France, these sums, together with the specific 
supplies, are the funds on which we depend for the support of the present 
campaign. Now let us examine for a moment what prospect there is of 
their productiveness. As to the first, little or no relyance is to be placed 
on it, because, they are now in arrear 6,400,000 dollars specie and I know 
of no measures that have been taken to procure it. To the second : 
1,000,000 is already spent, the three southern states can emit no part of 
theirs, New York can do very little, and this State has damn'd the plan, 
and adopted one of their own for emitting literally state money, which 
will not begin to operate before the first of June. So that — make the 
best of it, we cannot calculate upon more than 2,000,000, out of this fund, 
and that comes in so very slow, that it is of little use. To the third, we 
are now pretty well satis fyed, nothing is to be expected from that quarter 
in money. I mean, as to the last, you know very well sir it is a plan, that 
never can regularly feed the army. 

Where will all this end? In an unsuccessful campaign, I have no 
manner of doubt: But will this be the least evil to be apprehended? I 
fear not — Indeed my dearest sir, I begin almost to despond. Were I to 
consider my private interest, or that of my state only, I should altogether 
desp>air. And clear I am, in my opinion, that unless some effectual, 
vigorous, and decisive measures are speedily taken, to extricate us, from 
the labyrinth of difficulty, and distress, into which we are at present 
plunged, all the generous blood that has been spilt in this glorious contest, 
will have been spilt in vain, and the spirits of those who have nobly 
fallen, will stalk terrific through our land, seeking vengeance on those 
who have so infamously suffered their children to become slaves. 

As a citizen of america, as one who has more at stake than any man 
in it, as one who from our mistaken policy, is debared an intimate knowl- 
edge of our affairs, but who, from his station, ought to be acquainted 
with every thing — By these considerations I say sir, I have been led to 
make you these free communications. I know they must give pain to your 
generous nature yet I supposed, you would rather wish to be made ac- 
quainted with them, than not. Whatever changes take place, either for 
the better, or worse, with yr. Exc'ys permission I will inform you of. 

Please to make my respectful compliments to Mrs. Washington, and 
believe me to be, My D'r sir With every sentiment of the sincerest friend- 
ship, and highest Respect 

Yr. Exc'ys most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

64. Joseph Jones to Thomas Jefferson.'^ 

Spring Hill i6th April 1781. 
DVS'r, 

The alliance of the american States being now completed by the assent 
of the State of Maryland to the Articles of Confederation the future 

[64]! Library of Congress, Jefiferson Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones (ed. Ford), p. 77. 




68 Continental Congress 

proceedings of Congress must be governed by those Rules, and every 
deviation from them become matter of complaint or jealousy to the States. 
It wo'd be wise therefore where defects appear to have them supplied 
in time and while the Temper of the States from recent experience of 
the want of competent Powers in Congress for the purposes of War 
disposes them to do so. It appears to me indispensably necessary for the 
general welfare in time of war, that the Congress should be vested with 
a controuling power over the States sufficient to compel obedience to 
requisitions for Men and Money apportioned agreeable to the Rules laid 
down. Without a coercive power for these purposes clearly vested in that 
Body all future wars as the present has done must languish for want of 
proper authority to call forth the resources of the States. These aids 
should be as regularly and fully furnished by those States at ease and 
removed from danger as by those attacked and immediately exposed to 
it. Yet we have found those only when necessity and self preservation 
impelled them to exertions rendering those supplies the interest and safety 
of the whole required — and while some have strained every nerve and 
exhausted almost their whole strength in the struggle, others have been 
negligent and remiss in furnishing the proportions assigned. These de- 
linquencies occasion discontents, prolong the War, and expose the willing 
and obedient States to hardships, when Justice requires that all contribute 
their property. How this can be effected witho't a controuling power in 
Congress for the purpose I know not. Yet I know that witho't it we shall 
be a rope of sand and the Union be dissolved. It was made a question 
in Congress before I came away. I expect it will not be determined before 
I return wh'r the united States in Congress assembled had such a power ; 
if not whether it was not necessary they sho'd have it. As the States 
have yeilded to that Body the right of making requisitions, does it follow 
that Congress have the power by implication of enforcing obedience? 
If they now have this Power, or not having it, the States sho'd Grant 
it them, how sho'd the disobedient be punished? By shuting the Ports, 
by a Body of armed Men, by deprivation of privileges or by what other 
method. These are nice and tender points to handle, but are unavoidable 
in the discussion of this question. How far it wo'd be prudent to open 
them to the States I know not. Could the business be effected witho't 
coming from Congress by a voluntary declaration of the respective States 
of their Sentiment upon the Right of Congress to exercise such a power 
it wo'd I think be better, for I suspect such a Recommendation coming 
from Congress wo'd excite fears in the States, 4:hat there was a disposition 
in Congress to grasp dangerous Powers. It is certainly a transendent 
power, never to be used but in cases of absolute necessity and extremity. 
The acknowledgm't however of such a power in Congress might possibly 
supercede the use of it as it wo'd prove a weight impelling the States to ac- 
tion. If the States are ever to possess a formidable Navy w'ch may be 
serviceable to them in time of War, the Power of laying Embargoes during 
war at least, sho'd be vested in Congress. This appears necessary on many 
other accounts w'ch cannot be unknown to you and I confess myself at 
a loss to conjecture the reason of its omission in the Articles.^ 

2 See nos. 19, 29, 30, 48, autc, and nos. 65. 209, post. 



April, 1781 69 

If we are to have our great departments under the superintendence 
of Ministers accountable for their conduct (and wch was agreed upon 
and some of them chosen when I left Congress but which from a late 
letter from Madison will at length I fear be lost) It may be necessary 
if any offences they may commit in the execution of their offices shall 
be punished capitally, to institute a Court and appoint Judges for their 
trial, as I question whether they could be tried and punished in any of 
the Courts now in being. As these officers will act throughout the States 
and can be resident in one only there will be a difficulty in bringing them 
to trial and condign punishment witho't some special mode prescribed 
for the purpose. In this business however a great question arises — can 
Congress in other than Military and Maritime Laws subject any Citizen 
to Death or other Punishment than the Laws of the State he belongs to 
inflict for such offences? I have given your Excellency much trouble in 
this letter. My appology is that I desire the Sentiments of Gentlemen of 
respectable abilities belonging to the State I represent in all very interest- 
ing questions to assist my own judgem't and opinion; and unless you 
forbid it I shall take the same liberty on future occasions when they 
present themselves. 

P. S, I set out this day week for Philadelphia. 

65. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philada. April 16, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The inclosed paper is a copy of a report from a Committee now lying 
on the table of Congress for Consideration.* The delicacy and importance 
of the subiect makes me wish for your judgment on it before it undergoes 
the final decision of Congress. 

The necessitv of arming Congress with coercive powers arises from 
the shameful deficiency of some of the States which are most capable 
of yielding their apportioned supplies, and the military exactions to which 
others already exhausted by the enemy and our own troops are in conse- 
quence exposed. Without such powers too in the general government, 
the whole confederacy may be insulted and the most salutary measures 
frustrated by the most inconsiderable state in the L^nion. At a time when 
all the other states were submitting to the loss and inconveniency of an 
embargo on their exports, Deleware absolutely declined coming into the 
measure, and not only defeated the general object of it, but enriched 
herself at the expence of those who did their duty.^ 

The expediency however of making the proposed application to the 
States will depend on the probability of their complying with it. If thev 

[65] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; IVrifings. I. 129; Papers, I. 86. 

- The committee report referred to may be found in the Journals under May 2, and 
also in Madison Papers (p. 88) and in Writings (p. 129). accompanying this letter. It 
bears the date Mar, 12 and was presented to Congress Mar. 16. See nos. 29, 48, 64, ante, 
and no. 209, post. 

^ See the Journals. June i, 12, Nov. 21, 178b; cf. nos. 19, 29, 30, 48, 64, ante, and no. 
209, post. 



GO Continental Congress 

should refuse, Congress will be in a worse situation than at present: 
for as the confederation now stands, and according to the nature even of 
alliances much less intimate, there is an implied right of coer[cion ] against 
the delinquent party, and the exercise of it by Congress whenever a 
palpable necessity occurs will probably be acquiesced in.* .... 

66. Thomas Rodney, Diary.^ 

Munday Aprill i6th lySi. \ Letter from Captn. Clark informing that 
Certain Stores ordered to be laid up at fort Pitt for an expedition against 
the indians were not fully furnished and a request that Congress would 
make up the deficiency by send'g forward Certain articles mentioned was 
read.^ Genl. Varnum opposed the motion and enquired whether the 
Expedition was at the Instance or under the direction of the United States 
or Virginia etc. Genl, Sulivan said that this was an expedition of Vir- 
ginia, that they were going on some wild goose Chase against the Indians 
or Detroit as he supposed, when they aught to have turned all their force 
against the Enemy now destroying the most Cultivated part of their 
Country, and wanted Congress to support them in it when all their f ources 
and supplies was necessary against the Enemy who were invading sundry 
parts of the country. That Virginia had been upon the Same scheme 
for several years past and allured the publick with an expedition against 
Detroit while all their views had a different effect. That they nor no 
other State had a right to form any such expeditions without the appro- 
bation of Congress etc. etc. 

Governor Howly said he was now in favour of the Measure since the 
Matter had gone so far that it wanted only a little assistance to Complete 
the Matter but that he lamented the Cause. That Virginia had wantonly 
settled part of the back Country and now it was necessary to protect it, 
but that the occasion aught not to have been made etc. etc. 

Mr. Mathews informed Congress that this Expedition had been Com- 
municated to and approved by the board of war and Commander in Chief 
but that Virginia alone was to pay the Expense etc. — so it passed. 

In the report of Rules for the Conduct of Congress it was a question 
that no Motion should be received unless made or seconded by a State. 
Genl. Sulivan, Governor Howly, Col. Bland and Mr. Clark spoke against 
it, Mr, Mathews, Bee, Madison etc. etc. were for it. not past — rejected. 

[April J/] A Letter reed : today from Genl. Green dated 30th March, 
relating in Substance that he had left his Baggage and made a forced 
March to overtake Cornwallace, but that before he arrived Cornwallace 
had decamped leaving his dead unburied and taken his rout to Cross 
Creek and thence toward Wilmington N. C, That as the Virginia Militia 

* The remainder of the letter is a further discussion of the subject. 
[66] ^ Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 The letter was from George Rogers Clark (the copy in Papers Cont. Cong., 
no, 60, f, 29, is dated " Yough April 2nd, 1781 "), transmitted by the board of war, with a 
letter of Apr. 13. The board state that Clark's letter was the first official intimation they 
had had of the projected expedition, adding: "An Officer is waiting for the Decision of 
Congress and if the Stores are to be furnished it is necessary that they be put in Motion 
without Delay." See the Journals. 



April, 1781 61 

would leave him in a few days and his army had suffered greatly with 
fateague and want of Provisions, and he left with an inferior force he 
Could not pursue any further. That the Whings [jtV] and Tories in that 
Country were killing one another so fast that it seem'd likely to Depopu- 
late That country, he also sent a Copy of a Proclamation Issued by 
Cornwallace, giving general Pardon and Protection to all (murderers 
excepted) w^ho would return to their homes and take the military oath 
before the 20th of Aprill. It was moved by Govr. Bee that Genl, Greens 
Letter should be published — past in the negative. Govr. Bee applied 
and got leave to take the letter out of Congress. 

A Long Letter was read from a Mr. Baily Phisition and Surgen in the 
Hospital Department by Genl. Varnum and the cause of the said Mr. 
Baily was espoused by all the N. E. Members. It was alledged by them 
that this man had been very Ill-Treated by the Medical Comm particularly 
Mr. Clarke. It was opposed by all the rest of the House and Mr. Houston 
alledged that he had done no duty since 1779 but had been in Philada. 
postponed. 

Mr. Bland moved that as the Minister of France had offered us 400,000 
dollars in specie and Bills if we Could Supply provisions to that amount, 
we aught to accept the offer, and at the same time offered a scheme for 
doing this. Committed to a special Committee. Mr. Moyland appointed 
Clothier Genl. 

67. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

~. Philada. April 17th 1781.- 

The inclosed resolution of Congress answers your Excellency's letter 
of the 26th Ulto. relating to the appointment of Col. Davies to the War 
office of Virginia. You will observe that it determines his rank in the 
army alone to be the bar to his acceptance of a Civil office. Should Col. 
Davies be willing to give up that and his place be supplied by one of the 
Supernumerary Colonels, so that no additional expence would accrue to 
the United States, Congress we believe would not hesitate to let him 
retire without forfeiting any of the emoluments to which he is at present 
entitled. General McDougaJ was lately appointed by Congress to a Civil 
office under the like circumstances with Col. Davies, and as he did not 
chuse to part with his rank in the army the appointment was annulled.' 

[67] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia (signed by Madison, Bland, and Meriwether Smith) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 50. 

2 James Lovell wrote to Samuel Holten Apr. 17 : " The Post is become useless 
for Politicians to a very great Degree but I cannot refrain from giving you a Return made 

to Genl. Washington on the ist of April and by him forwarded to Congress You 

were in Congress at an easy happy Period of Business tho' you did not know it, nor did I 
then guess it" (Essex Inst. Hist. Colls.. XIII. 229). The return was that made by 
Gen. Edward Hand Apr. 1 and transmitted to Congress by Washington with his letter of 
Apr. 8, read in Congress Apr. 12. 

3 In his letter to the delegates Mar. 26 (Official Letters, II. 434) Jefferson wrote: 
" I beg Leave to ask your sollicitations with Congress for Permission to Colo. William 
Davies of the Virginia line to accept an Appointment to the War Office of this State with- 



62 Continental Congress 

68. Thomas Rodney, Diary/ 

Aprill i8th lySi. A report of Committee brought in stating all our 
debts, and the expenses or estimates of the current year ordered to be 
Coppied and sent to the States.^ 

Mr. Maddison moved that Genl, Washington send efifectual force to 
the Southward, and that he be impowered to draw out as many Malitia 
from the eastward of the North river as may be necessary to the East- 
ward etc. Mr. Smith of Virginia said that Virginia had done her part 
in the War, that they had afforded great Succour lately to the Southern 
States at her own expense that she was so much exhosted that now she 
was invaded she wanted assistance, that there were many disaffected in 
that State and when opertunity offered would assist the Enemy, that for 
two or three years past it had been an opinion that prevailed that if that 
State was invaded it was to be given up by the other States, that if they 
were neglected and were forced to give up to the enemy this consideration 
would make them inviterate against those States and willingly help to 
Conquer them etc. Mr. S. Adams said that he was willing all the Army 
should go to the Southward and the Malitia only be left to defend the 
Eastern States provided they had notice and it was not Contrary to the 
plans of the Genl. etc. Committed to three. 

[At this point in the Diary appears the following statement:] 

Unfortunately my Engagements in private business, as well as in Con- 
gress prevented my Continuing this account during the year 1781, It 
being an Important year.' 



out prejudice to his rank and right to half-pay for life, Lands, and Depreciation of pay." 
A similar letter of the same date was addressed to the President of Congress (ibid.). He 
had been told that instances of similar indulgence existed, and mentioned as one such " the 
hon'ble Mr. McDowall a Delegate in Congress". This was of course General McDougall, 
who had however been granted the privilege of retaining his rank, etc., in the event of his 
acceptance of the office of secretary of marine, but not his pay and emoluments as an 
officer of the army. See the Journals, Mar. 30, also vol. V., no. 661, and nos. 14, 25 
(note 2), ante. The reading of Jefferson's letter of Mar. 26 to Congress is not recorded 
in the Journals, but a committee (Sullivan, Smith, and Mathews) made a report upon it 
Apr. 16. This committee is the same in membership as that to which, according to the 
Journals, Jefferson's letter of Mar. 31 was referred Apr. 9. This entry in the Journals 
is possibly an error, for the record indicates that the reference was first to the board of 
war, then altered to the committee named. At all events, the letter of Mar. 31 was on 
Apr. 12 referred to the board of war. President Huntington transmitted to Jefferson, 
with a brief letter of Apr. 18, the substance of the resolution of Apr. 16. A copy of this 
letter (from the original) is in the possession of the Carnegie Institution. 

An omitted paragraph relates to the difficulties attending the march of the Pennsylvania 
line. See the Journals, Apr. 16, 28, the delegation letter May i (Cal. Va. State Papers, 
II. 80), and nos. 120, 144, post; cf. vol. V., no. 655. 
[68p Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 The report is in the Journals, Apr. 18. A copy, authenticated by Secretary Thom- 
son, is in Cont. Cong., Misc., portfolio 103. President Huntington's circular transmitting 
the report to the states, Apr. 21, is printed in Arch, of Md., XLVII. 200. 

8 These paragraphs were evidently added at least three months subsequent to 
April 18, as the appointment of peace commissioners, referred to in the third paragraph, 
was concluded June 14. Another and more extended statement of his services in 1781] 
written at a still later time, will be found post, no. 197. 



April, 1/81 63 

I was long on the Committee of finance and always on the Committee 
of the states, prevailed on having the business of Congress assigned to 
ministers and officers.* 

Was at the appointment of Commrs. for making piece and Controled 
that appointmt. so far as to git five in stead of three and so to Include 
Doctr. Franklin and Mr. Laurence (with A, J and Jefferson). '^ 

But I did not mind any small business, only applied my attention to 
what was of great Consiquence as I observed great deficiency in the 
knowledge of governmt. among the Members — tho many of them pos- 
sessed great abilities. 

69. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia April 20, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am directed to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copies of Let- 
ters, viz, one from his Excellency President Reed to me, the other from 
Mr. Fowler to President Reed, with the consequent Resolve of Congress 
of the 19th Instant; directing that effectual Measures be taken to make 
Enquiry into and correct the Abuses therein mentioned and for bringing 
the Offenders to condign Punishment 

This Mr. Fowler is an Auditor appointed by Congress to settle public 
Accounts in that Quarter " 

It may not be amiss to mention to your Excellency, that it hath been 
suggested by Gentlemen of Character, that Colonel Broadhead for some 
Reasons is disposed to obstruct, rather than to aid Colonel Clarke in his 
present Expedition to the westward, and prevent his Proceeding. How 
far the latter Suggestion, or those Facts mentioned in Mr. Fowlers Letter 
are well founded I cannot pretend to say. A proper Enquiry is necessary 
to ascertain those Matters; and I am firmly perswaded your Excellency's 
Prudence will direct to such Measures as that the Public may not suffer 
by flagrant Abuses, and at the same Time no faithful Officers may be 
injured by ill founded Misrepresentations if any such there be.' 

P. S. I have been Honourd with your Excellencys Letters of the 12th 
and 13th instant 

* Rodney was made a member of the committee appointed May 8 to devise ways 
and means, etc.; he was twice chosen (June 18, July 9) to the committee of the week; 
but the Journals do not record his being on any other committees. There was not during 
his delegation any committee of the states properly so called. The creation of executive 
departments, to which he alludes, was for the most part determined before his arrival. 
His first recorded vote, Feb. 28, was in favor of postponing the election of a secretary 
at war until the first of October. 

<> "A" and " J " are John Adams and John Jay. The part which Rodney took in the 
proceedings upon this question is more definitely explained by him in his letter to Caesar 
Rodney June 14 (no. 157, post). 

[69]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ib-id.. President's Letter-Book, p. 273. 

- Alexander Fowler was appointed one of the auditors in the army Feb. 20, 1779I 
and assigned to the Western district. See vol. IV., p. 35 n. 

3 Washington wrote to Congress Apr. 14 (see the Journals, Apr. 17) respecting 
conditions at Fort Pitt as set forth to him by Col. Daniel Brodhead. Washington's letter 
was transmitted to President Reed of Pennsylvania, whose reply, Apr. 18 (read in Con- 
gress Apr. 19), gave rise to the action here mentioned. Washington's letter is in Fa. Arch., 



64 Continental Congress 

70. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia April 20, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am directed to acquaint your Excellency that the State of Maryland 
is unrepresented in Congress, having but one Delegate present for some 
Time past, and it is earnestly requested that a Representation may be 
kept in Congress at present. Matters very important and interesting re- 
quire a full Representation from all the States. It is to be hoped and 
expected that one or more Delegates from Maryland may immediately 
come forward if not already on the Way. 

71. James Duane to Marinus Willett.^ 

Philada. 2 1 St April, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The distresses of the Army for want of pay give pain to every patriot 
but in a more eminent degree to those who by being placed at the head 
of Government are considered in some Measure, as responsible. If their 
Office shielded them from common Calamities, or afforded Support to 
their Families, If they had of themselves the Means of filling the publick 
Treasury or If the States had complied with their Requisitions the Charge 
of Severity towards the reformed Officers in not paying their Arrears to 

the time of their Reduction woud have given me less pain 

The Reduction was a general Measure in which you in common with 
many other worthy and gallant officers participated. I never heard it 
objected to: The Rule of Seniority was pressed from the difficulty of 
Selecting as Congress first recommended. It was preferred on Military 
Ideas and Advice. The officers reduced were not paid : the whole Army 
were unpaid. The Reason is that there was no Money in the Common 
Treasury: And the States that [were] earnestly called upon to advance 
their Quotas of the Arrears have not complied. What coud Congress 
have done more ? What more can they now do ? 

With respect to the two additional Regiments to be raised in our State 
I sincerely believe it did not originate from any Scheme to injure you or 
to prefer favorites. I have understood that an offer was made the State 
to raise those Regiments on Land bounties and that it was expected that 
the men woud be recruited in New England. To this Moment I never 
heard but from yourself who were appointed Officers. Congress in ap- 
proving this plan paid Attention to the reduced officers it being their 
wish that they shoud be preferred as far as this Service permitted.^ .... 

first ser., IX. 75; Reed's is ibid., p. 8i. See also David Duncan to Reed Apr. 24, ibid., 
p. 97, and Reed to Washington Apr. 24, ibid., p. 98. The enclosure in Reed's letter of 
Apr. 18 (see the Journals, Apr. 19, p. 420, note 3) was a letter from Fowler, dated at 
Pittsburgh, Mar. 29. A copy is in the Washington Papers. Washington's reply to this 
letter of President Huntington, May i (read in Congress May 7), is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), IX. 241 n. See further the Journals, May 29, and no. 139, post. 

\7oV Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 32; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 199. 

[71]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Uncalendared MSS., Duane. 

2 Duane appears to be speaking of the arrangement of Nov. 24, 1778. The additional 
regiments referred to were probably those authorized Oct. 3 and 21, 1780. 



April, 1781 65 

y2. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene)/ 

<^. Philadelphia, 21st April, 1781. 

I have received your Excellency's letter notifying me that no Delegate 
will come from the State 'till after the election. Gen. Cornell, who is 
absent by leave of Congress, for visiting the military Magazines, Labora- 
tories, etc., and causing some necessary reforms, will be able to give every 
necessary Information respecting our Situation.^ As my Time for repre- 
senting the State will soon expire, I apprehend my Return home will be 
consequent thereupon. Previous to which, a Supply of Money will be 
essential. Should the Necessity of this Request be doubted, it need only 
be observed, that the exchange between Paper and Silver is two hundred 
for one ; and I suppose four Weeks will produce something worse. I have 
been informed that a Sentiment somewhat similar to this, expressed in a 
former Letter, and which was intended as a delicate suggestion of my 
wants, was obliterated as tending to discourage. However, I must again 
repeat, that the State will be very great Losers in sending paper Money 
to Philadelphia. 

73. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 
^. Philadelphia March [April] 23, 1781. 

I have been honored with your Excellency's Letters of the i6th and 
1 8th Instant. You will observe by the enclosed Resolve of this Day, that 
it is the Sense of Congress, on receiving the Information contained in 
your Letter of the i6th, of the Proposals you have made respecting the 
Exchange of General Burgoine, that you be authorized to proceed in 
perfecting the Exchange, if you shall think fit; the Resolution of the 
third Instant notwithstanding.^ 

74. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Rodney.^ 

April 23, 1 78 1. 
D'r Sir, 

I thank you for the Good News in your's and am very Sorry to find 
Congress in such a Situation, but it is out of my Power to go up before 
Wednesday Morning. I should be glad to know if you go before, if not, 
I will then go with you ; I will be in your Town this afternoon if not rainy 
otherwise Tomorrow.^ I only got Home yesterday from Dover, the 
Presidt. and Miss Willson are well. 

[72]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 57; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 337. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 21. 
[73]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 3, 23, and no. 54, ante. Washington's letter of Apr. 16, re- 
lating to the exchange of General Burgoyne, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 218, (ed. 
Sparks), VIIL 15. See further the Journals, June 14, and no. 164, post. 
[74]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, V. 60. 

2 Van Dyke is next mentioned in the Journals under May 2, although he may have 
attended several days earlier. On Apr. 9 both Van Dyke and Rodney had been requested 
by President Huntington to return to Congress, and Rodney had attended Apr. 11 and 
through Apr. 18 or 'later. He had probably however about this time again absented him- 
self for a few days. 



66 . Continental Congress 

75. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson)/ 

Philadelphia, April 24th 1781, 
Sir, 

We were yesterday Honord with your Excellency's of the 13th Inst, 
with its enclosures.^ You may be assured that our utmost endeavors have 
been exerted in forwarding the arms and stores mentioned in our last, 
but insurmountable difficulties have prevented their seting off untill now — 
But we are happy to inform you that the first of them will go on to day, 

as the Qr. Mast'r assures us A late letter from the Commander 

in Chief gives us some reason to think that the British have a serious 
intention of making a descent in Delaware Bay at least to forage, and 
secure all the Provision they can on the Peninsula that lays below New 
Castle and the head of Elk if Possible, in Consequence of which measures 
have been taken to remove all the flower Cattle and short forage on that 
Peninsula calld the Eastern Shore, out of their Reach, and also from 
the Jersey shore Bordering on Delaware Bay, for which purpose the 
Board of War are vested with powers by Congress, and the Executives 
of Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland and Virginia are request fed] 
to lend their assistance to aid in the execution of this necessary measure.* 



P. S. We are happy to inform yr : Excy. that a large Detachment of 
the Pennsylva. line are at length in motion towards Virginia and we hope 
will arrive in time to Check the Progress of the Enemy in that State. 
We have accts. that the Confederacy is taken by the Roebuck and Orpheus 
off this Coast. 

76. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

April 24, 1 78 1. 

The Board of War having spared to the Special Council for the Eastern 
shore and to the Virginia Delegates a number of the Rampart peices, I 
cou'd not obtain an order for more than 500, they have likewise given 
me an order for 2 four pound Brass Field pieces compleat. If 4 lbs Ball 
should be wanting it will be proper to mention the number you wou'd 
have. It not being safe to send the arms by water I presume you will 
order waggons up or some to be procured here.^ .... 

We have reason to believe the Confederacy is taken by two British 
frigates. 

[75]! Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc., portfolio 103 (in the writing of Bland, 
signed by Madison and Bland) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 70. 

2 Jefferson's letter is in Official Letters, II. 471. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 23, and nos. 55, 58, ante, 76-7%, 80-82, 85, post. The passage 
in Washington's letter of Apr. 16 (see no. 72, note 2, ante) pertaining to advices as to 
the probable movements of the enemy is quoted in Carroll's letter of Apr. 24 (no. 76, 
post, but there omitted). 

[76]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 78; Arch, of Md., XL VII. 205. 

2 Cf. nos. 81, 95, post. The principal omission here is a passage from Washington's 
letter of Apr. 16. See no. 75, ante. 



April, 1781 67 

yy. The Board of War to the Board of Admiralty.^ 

War Office, April 24th 1781. 
Gentletnen, 

The Board have the honor to inclose you a resolve of Congress which 
it is their design should be kept secret. The Board are of Opinion that 
no Considerable quantity of Provisions or other stores can be transported 
from the Delaware state with any degree of Safety, unless a frigate or 
some Vessel of Considerable force should be sent down the River to protect 
the Navigation. They therefore request the assistance of your Honble 
Board in carrying into execution the Resolution of Congress which from 
the information which has been received from the Commander in Chief 
will admit of little delay. If it is your opinion that any farther Resolution 
of Congress is necessary we request that you will inform us.' 

78. The Board of War to the Speci.\l Council of the 
Eastern Shore of Maryland.^ 

War Office April 25th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Board have the Honor to inclose a Copy of a Resolution of Con- 
gress respecting the Removal of Provisions and Stores from the Peninsula 
between the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays. The Directions contained 
therein are founded upon well grounded Information received from the 
Commander in Chief of an Operation now in much Forwardness on the 
Part of the Enemy for the Purpose of possessing themselves of the ample 
Supplies which that Country will afford them, and which while in their 
present Situation hold out the most flattering Inducements to them. We 
trust however that no Arguments are necessary to convince you of the 
urgency of the Measure and we hope for your concurrence therein; Indeed 
without this it appears to us to be impracticable to carry into effect the 
Directions of Congress." .... 

79. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia April 27, 1781. 
Sir, 

I do myself the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency the enclosed 
Copy of a Letter from Ebenezer Hazard 

[^^y Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 100; Pa. State Lib., P. P. LXXIIL (copy, signed " Wm. 
Grayson, By order "). 

- See the Joiirnals. Apr. 23, and no. 75, ante, nos. 78, 80-82, post. A letter on the 
subject from the board of admiralty to President Reed is in Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 100; 
see also ibid., pp. 103, 106. 

[78]! Md. Hist. Soc.. Red Book. VII. 207; Arch, of Md.. XLV. 66g. 

2 For earlier action of a similar nature see nos. 55, 58, ante. The action in the 
present instance was in accordance with a resolve of Apr. 23, taken in consequence of a 
letter from Washington Apr. 16. See nos. 75-77. ante, 80-82, post. The board's letter 
was first addressed, " His Excellency the Governor of Maryland ", then changed to, 
" Honble Executive Council of the Eastern Shore of Maryland ". Concerning the " Special 
Council for the Eastern Shore" see Arch, of Md., XLV. (index, Eastern Shore, Special 
Council, especially p. 406). 

[79]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, II. 118. 



68 Continental Congress 

You will observe by the Journals of Congress under the 20th of July 
1778, Encouragement given to this Gentleman to collect Materials for a 
History, and a Recommendation to the several States to aid and assist 
him in such Collection 

If any of the Manuscripts etc to which his Letter refers, will in your 
Excellency's Opinion be useful or worthy of Notice in the Pages of 
History, I am perswaded you will be so kind as to forward them agreeable 
to his Desire, whenever Leisure from more important Concerns shall 
permit. It may be proper to send them under Cover addressed to the 
Secretary of Congress, as Mr. Hazard, being Surveyor of the Post for 
the eastern Department, is rather an itinerant than a Resident in any 
particular Place at present.^ 

80. The President of Congress to Matthew Tilghmax.^ 

Philada. April 27, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the 21st Instant I have had the Honor to communicate 
to the United States in Congress assembled.^ I am directed to inform you 
that it was by no Means their Intention in the Recommendation therein 
referred to, to hold up your Situation as desperate, much less to preclude 
the Idea of Resistance. The Intelligence they had received led them to 
apprehend that it was in Contemplation with the Enemy to take Post at 
New-Castle, for the Purpose of a grand Forage on the Peninsula between 
Delaware and Chesapeake Bays. 

The Attention due to the general Interest ^ required that immediate 
and effectual Precautions should be taken to disappoint such an Expedi- 
tion of its Object. With this View it was recommended to remove from 
the Reach of the Enemy all Provisions and Forage which would not be 
necessary for the Consumption of the Inhabitants, a Precaution pointed 
out by the very Nature of the Case, which was the more eligible as it 
tended to prevent the Invasion as well as to render it abortive, and which 
had been adopted in similar Instances without Objection or Complaint. 

The Intelligence since received by Congress of the Designs of the 
Enemy has been so far from rendering the first Plan inexpedient or un- 
necessary, that it has determined them to give it greater Promptitude and 

2 There was some correspondence between JeflFerson and Hazard in February, 1791, 
respecting the latter's historical work. 

[80] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VHI. 31 ; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 215; Library of Con- 
gress, President's Letter-Book, p. 277. 

2 Tilghman's letter was read in Congress Apr. 26 and referred to a committee, who 
drafted this letter in reply (see the Journals, Apr. 27, p. 455). Referring to President 
Huntington's letter of Apr. 7 (see no. 55 and note i, ante), Tilghman remarked: 

" We had previously received the Information from our Delegates, but altho on a propo- 
sition of the Truth of the Intelligence we could not be insensible of our critical Situation, 
yet we did not nor can we consider the Imminence of our Danger in that desperate point 
of view in which it appears to be held up by the act of Congress ; we will not therefore 
suffer Intimidation to take place; Having a Confidence in the Bravery and affection of 
our People every Nerve shall be exerted in our own Defence. 

" The Recommendation to remove all Provisions and forage, public and private, which 
will not be necessary for the Consumption of the Inhabitants seems to preclude every Idea 
of Resistance : Unhappy indeed is our Situation if nothing more is necessary to compleat 
our Captivity than for the Enemy to take Post at New Castle." 

8 In the Letter-Book copy the words " and defence " here follow. 



April, 1781 69 

Efficacy by their Resolution of the 23d Instant, of which a Copy is en- 
closed. The Extent and Strictness of its Execution, as well as of the 
preceding Act, must no doubt be governed by Circumstances, and by the 
Discretion of the Executives and the Board of War,* 

Whatever Respect may be paid to these Recommendations, or what- 
ever may be the Event, Congress will have done their Duty. 

Your Determination to exert yourselves to the utmost for your De- 
fence, and your Confidence in the Bravery and Affection of your Citizens 
afford Congress the highest Satisfaction, and they perswade themselves 
that a Reconsideration of the Steps taken for removing from the Reach 
of Invaders, the superfluous Provision and Forage, will convince you that 
they can have no possible Tendency to discourage so laudable a Spirit, 
or to impede the Effects which may be expected from it. 

By Order of Congress 

Sam Huntington President 

The Honorable Mathew Tilghman Esqr ' 

81. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia April 27th 1781. 

Having discovered that there were a considerable number of Rampart 
Arms belonging to the U. S. at this place, which have long lain dormant, 
(having been supposed useless for the Field) we have found on enquire- 
that with a small alteration, and fixing Bayonettes to them they are 
capable of being rendered exceeding good Field Arms ; and knowing the 
necessity of the State for a Supply of that article we have been extremely 
desireous to have them altered and sent on with all possible dispatch ; we 
flatter ourselves that this might have been done expeditiously by the 
Intervention of some Virginia Merchants who had money in this City 
which they offered to dispose of for the purchase of the Arms from the 
Continent ; to have them fitted and transported at their own expense, 
and on their arrival in Virginia giving the State the offer of them upon 
terms yeikling them a reasonable Profit for their trouble and expense in 
so doing : but when they gave in their proposals to us in writing, we were 
extremely sorry to find that what would yeild them a profit, (far short 
as they informed us of what might be obtained by vesting their money in 
other Articles of Commerce,) greatly exceeded any allowance we thought 
ourselves Justifiable in Agreeing they shd. receive, especially when we 
considered the low condition of the treasury of the State, and that we 
must engage the faith of the State for the Immediate advance of one 

* See nos. 55. 58, 75-78, ante, and nos. 82, 85, Post. 

5 Tilghman was president of the executive council ("Special Council") of the 
Eastern Shore of Maryland (see no. 58, note 2, ante, no. 82, post). Thomas Rodne>', ap- 
parently referring to the resolution of Apr. 23. declares that he later pointed out its 
absurdity and had it altered (see no. 197, post). Other evidence of the alteration is lacking. 
[Sil^Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, V. 8 (signed by Madison, Bland, and 
Smith). 



to Continental Congress 

half the Money, and the payment of the other half on the delivery of the 
Arms. This determined us to embrace an Alternative, which we hope 
in the End will prove more Eligible; we have in consequence of that 
determination procured an order of Congress to the board of War to have 
two thousand stand immediately altered and fitted up for field Service, 
to be forwarded with all possible expedition to Virginia and the remainder 
to be sent to Maryland and North Carolina.'^ In order to accelerate this 
operation, we must entreat your Excellency to devise some means of 
furnishing to the amount of 1,300 Pounds hard money or its Value in 
Paper, such as will Circulate in this State : without which we find it will 
absolutely be impracticable to carry into execution a measure which will 
be productive of the greatest advantage to the Southern States, for want 
of some fund in this City we have often found ourselves greatly em- 
barrassed, and frequently absolutely prevented from expediting succours 
of whose consequences we are fully apprised to the Southward, and are 
extremely mortified to find frequently that a very small Sum which would. 
by being advanced to Waggoners etc. set them at work ; it is neither in 
our power to advance nor procure, either on our own or the States Credit. 
It being absolutely impracticable to negotiate a" Bill we cannot but think 
it highly proper to fix an Agent for the State in this City, to be furnished 
with remittances for such purposes, and to transact many other usefull 
pieces of Business for the State which not only lay greatly out of the 
line of the delegates duty but frequently prevents them from bestowing 
the necessary attention to the more important interests of the State and 
of the Union in General. Your Excellency will be at no loss to conceive 
why a remittance of the above Sum for the present occasion is highly 
necessary and expedient when we inform you that from the Tardiness 
of the States in general to pay in their arrearages of taxes, from the 
impediments to the Issuing the money according to the Resolutions of 
the 1 8th of March 1780, and from the daily expenditures for carrying 
on the war the Public treasury is at this moment left destitute of a single 
shilling and has large demands on it which have anticipated what will 
probably come into it for some months. 

[P. S.] We have enclosed Yr. Exc'y a copy of the agreement we have 
been necessitated to enter into in order to ensure and expedite a measure 
which we are sensible is of the utmost importance to the State.^ 

82. Daniel Carroll to Matthew Tilghman,* 

o^y Philadelphl\ Apl: 28th, 1781. 

I did myself the honor of addressing a few lines to you by Messrs. 
Goldsborough and Emory," Since which the President received your 

- The order to the board of war is in the Journals, Apr. 26 ; cf. no. 95, post. 

8 A copy of this agreement, with Ebenezer Cowell, Apr. 27, is in the Virginia State 
Library, Executive Papers. The original is listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1275, part II., 
item 570. In a letter to Governor Jefferson May i {Cat. Va. State Papers, II. 80) they 
speak further concerning this business. 

[82liMd. Hist. Soc. LXXXVII. 260 (copy). 

2 Messrs. Goldsborough and Emory had been sent to Philadelphia by the special 
council of the Eastern Shore, for arms and ammunition. The letter of instructions to them, 
Apr. 13, is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 396, addressed to "Gold and Emory". 



April, 1781 71 

Letter, to which Colo. Moylan the Bearer Carrys an Answer. From the 
Character of this Officer, and the Contents of the letter addressed to you 
by the Board of War I flatter myself the execution of the Resolves of 
Congress will not be attended with any disagreeable Circumstances. I 
am. Sir, Sensible that the Step taken by Congress on this Occasion, is 
of a very Serious Nature, even tho' Nothing should be attempted to be 
Carried into Execution. I saw it in that light from the Beginning and 
gave Congress every information in my power. I was almost alone on 
the propriety and Necessity of the Measure. There is some reason to 
believe, that Considerable Quantitys of Flour are Stored on the Waters 
of Delaware, part of which May have been purchased for the use of the 
Enemy. This I think was a strong if not the principal inducement with 
Congress, for the Resolves they entered into.' .... 

83. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia^ April 30, 1781. 
Sir, 

By the latest advices from Spain the affairs of America have a favorable 
aspect at the Court of Madrid, tho' Mr. Cumberland was still permitted 
to be there under the ostensible pretext of obtaining the salubrious air 
for the health of some of his family ; ^ and, among other circumstances, 
what convinces me that Spain consider these United States of too much 
importance to be abandoned by any proposals the British Court can make, 
or intrigues they may practice, is, that we have received certain intelli- 
gence that the Spanish armament from the Havannah have actually in- 
vested Pensacola with a force sufficient to promise success, according 
to the probable course of human events 

I hope, before this, some delegates from Connecticut are on the way 
to Congress, as I am once more left alone from the State, and shall not 
be able to attend any considerable time longer myself. 

84. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia, April 30, 1781. 
Sir, 

The inclosed paper will give you the substance of the latest intelligence 
Congress have received from Europe. The countenance given by Russia 
to the united provinces must be productive of very happy effects, it en- 
courages them to enter into the war with alacrity and to prosecute it with 
vigor. This of course raises up another powerful enemy against G. Britain 
and enables our generous Ally to give us more substantial aid than he 
could otherwise have done. Our affairs at the Court of Madrid wear a 

* See nos. 75, 76, 78, 80, ante, and no. 85, post. 
[83]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 220. 

2 See no. 122, post. 
[84] 1 William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers (signed, "By order of the Com- 
mittee, Jno. Mathews Chairman"). 



72 Continental Congress 

more pleasing aspect than they have yet done and we have reason to 
expect a more earnest friendship from that monarch than he has yet 
manifested toward us. 

The troops and Ships destined for our aid were expected to sail in all 
the Month of March, the exact numbers of either we are not informed 
of, but we are incouraged to expect both will be respectable. 

We are directed by Congress to communicate to you the complaints 
that have been made, of a number of the british Officers being suffered 
to remain in Charles Town on parole when the enemy extend this indulg- 
ence with a very sparing hand to our Officers, that you should enquire 
into the matter and rectify whatever improprieties may have arisen in 
conducting this business. 

It is also the wish of Congress that you would endeavour to negotiate 
an exchange of prisoners and relieve as many of ours as you possibly 
can from the horrors of so severe a Captivity as they experience.^ 

You may possibly conceive some embarrassments will arise in negotiat- 
ing this business, least what might begone by you, might militate against 
the general exchange negotiating by the commander in chief ; but as the 
powers of exchange in your department are by Congress fully lodged 
in your hands, we conceive it ought not to influence your conduct further 
than military duty must enjoin. Policy in our opinion directs every thing 
to be done in this business that can be done without loss of time as the 
enemy have already engaged a very large number of our men ( from good 
authority we are informed between 5 and 600) and are daily engaging 
more in their service — inevitable necessity drives our unhappy men to 
quit the service of their country for one they detest, and the policy of 
the enemy places them in a situation that for ever precludes them from 
the least chance of returning, being all engaged for the West India service. 
The inclosed paper will show you the outrageous malice of the enemy 
against our Officers and the pressing necessity of something decisive being 
immediately done to prevent so diabolical a measure as is therein proposed 
to be adopted by them. 

85. The President of Congress to Matthew Tilghman.^ 

May I (?), 1781.- 

By a confidential person we are informed " that it may be depended 

on as a certainty that a very considerable embarkation has taken place in 

2 Mathews is writing as chairman of the " committee of correspondence ", that is, 
the committee appointed July 8, 1779, to correspond with the commander in the Southern 
department (see vol. V., nos. 99, note 2, 524, note 5). Apr. 28 he was made chairman 
of another committee, with an assignment to report upon a specific problem pertaining 
to the Charleston prisoners (see no. 91, post). Just when the committee of correspondence 
received the instructions mentioned does not appear to be revealed by the Journals. 

[85]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 30 (endorsed, " For the Hon'ble Matthew Tilgh- 
nian Esqr "). 

2 The Virginia delegates, in a letter of May i (Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 80), men- 
tion a rqjort from New York that Clinton was disembarking' his troops. Cf. no. 80. ante : 
see also a letter from James Lloyd to the council of the Eastern Shore, Apr. 30, in Arch, of 
Md.. XLVII. 221. 



May, 178 1 73 

New York and has been ready for sailing for some days with which 
gen S'r H CHnton is going.'' 

NB. the foregoing InteHigence was receivd the 27th of April, since 
which no farther accounts have been receivd by 

Saml. Huntington 



86. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia May i, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, a Letter from Mathias Halsted 
with several other Papers, representing the Misconduct of John Adam 
Deputy Commissary of Prisoners, which they have thought proper to 
refer to the Commander in Chief, that due Enquiry may be made re- 
specting the Transactions of this Officer, and the Facts complained of 
and stated in those Papers.- .... 

87. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office May i, 1781. 
Sir, 

There has been for some time past an Uneasiness among the Officers 
of Cavalry entitled to the Rank of Major if that Corps is on the same 
Footing with the Infantry with respect to Promotion and Number of 
Officers, on the Construction of the 2d Section of the Resolve of the 3d 
of October 1780. The Point is whether the Words "with the same 
Number of commissioned Officers as at present " refer [to] the Troop or 
the Regiment. The same Dispute will now arise in the Artillery as the 
Clause respecting that Corps is conceived in similar Terms. We are of 
Opinion that the Words refer to the Troop and that the Corps of Cavalry 
and Artillery should be on the same Footing as the Infantry as to the 
Number of Field Officers and of Course that a Regiment having only a 
Lieut, Col. Comr. should have two Majors. But we did not choose to 
report the Matter to Congress without asking your Excellency whether 
you knew of any Reasons to the contrary especially as some Members 
of Congress who were concerned in forming the Resolve put a Construc- 
tion upon it different from our Opinion.* 

[86]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers ; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 283. 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 27. Washington's reply, May 11, was read in Congress 
May 17. 

[87]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed "Richard Peters, By Order"). 
2 Washington replied May 8 : "' I am of the same opinion with the Board respecting 
the construction of the Resolve of the 3d October 1780. It would defeat the end proposed 
by the abolition of the Rank of full Colonel in the Army were they suffered to be still 
created in the Regiments of Artillery and Cavalry." On the subject of promotion see his 
letter to Sullivan May 11 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 244, ed. Sparks, VIII. 39) ; also no. 112, 
post. 



74 Continental Congress 

88. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, May ist, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last we have had despatches from our Minister at the court 
of Madrid as late as the 22(1 February, which contain a minute detail 
of his negotiations at that court. They do him infinite honor. I wish it 
were proper for me to communicate them to you : I am sure the perusal 
of them would not only afiford you great pleasure, but give you a very 
high opinion of his abilities. Our affairs at that court are in such a 
train as promises a favorable issue, and I have reason to believe, from the 
best authority, that none of the European powers discover a disposition 
to favor Great Britain, except the Emperor and Queen of Portugal. The 
former, I have reason to believe, made offers of his mediation to the 
court of Spain, which were not very favorably received. The Northern 
Powers will certainly support the Dutch. The two extracts of letters of 
the 22d February and 23d January, published in the paper of the 28th 
of April, under the Philadelphia head, are from the best authority, and 
the intelligence may be relied on.'* .... I am now very impatient of 
some one's coming on to relieve me, and am determined to wait no longer 
than the beginning of next month, and at all events will leave this before 
the middle of it. 

89. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 2d, 1781. 
Dear General, 

I Take the Liberty of inclosing your Excellency a Motion which I in- 
tend making in Congress provided it meets with your approbation. I have 
reasons for this Motion which were not proper in my Opinion to Lay 
before Congress but which I beg leave to lay before your Excellency. I 
Suppose it at Least possible That our reinforcement from France may 
be followed by a Superiour Naval Armament which may Arrive before 
any thing decisive can be Effected. Should this event take place we shall 
find ourselves unable to regain a Single Post the Enemy now possess and 
consequently the Campaign must be lost, unless by Some diversion we 
can reduce that force at Least to an Equality; and this in my Opinion 
cannot be so effectually done as by making a Diversion in Canada as they 
cannot reinforce but by water ; and This will demand a Convoy of Capital 
Ships, but should not this Event take place Namely a Naval Superiority 
on their Side no injury can Arise from making the Necessary prepara- 
tions as this will make a diversion in favor of our intended plans in this 

[88] 1 McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 505. 

2 See no. 84, ante ; cf. no. 98, post. Madison wrote to Jeflferson May i : " Congress 
have reed, a good deal of information from Europe within a few days past. I can only say 
in general that it is favorable. Indeed whatever consideration the powers of Europe may 
have for us, the audacious proceedings of our Enemy in all quarters must determine them 
to abridge a power which the greatest dangers and distresses cannot inspire with modera- 
tion or forbearance" (Madison Papers, Ac. 1081). The printed texts of this letter of 
Madison have " unfavorable " instead of " favorable " in the second sentence above. 

[89]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



May, 1/81 75 

Quarter and Enable us in case of Disappointment to turn the feint into 
a Real Attack. I am clearly of opinion that our whole force should be 
employed to regain what we have already lost so Long as there Remains 
a probability of Success, but when the possibility of that Success ceases 
to Exist we ought not to loose the Campaign and Neglect to Conquer 
Posts completely in our power : because we are unable to gain those we 
prefer. In Short I am for doing something in case it should become im- 
possible to do what I most ardently wish, viz regaining the Posts already 
lost and I submit to your Excellency whether even this will be possible 
unless the necessary preparations are previously made. These in my 
opinion may be made without much Expence the Eastern States may be 
called upon to Embody some Battalions and make other necessary prepara- 
tions which in case of a Naval Superiority may be employed against New 
York and Enable us to Detach from the Main Army to the Southward. 
I beg Your Excellency to Excuse the Length of this letter as it was only 
my intention when I began to give the hint without going into a Long 
train of Reasoning upon the Subject but have been insen[si]bly led into 
it by perhaps too Warm an Attachment to a Plan which Your Excellency 
may convince me is not Eligible ^ 

90. John Sullivan, Proposed Address to Congress.^ 

[May 2, 1781.] 
To the Hon'ble the Delegates of the United States in Congress Assembled,* 
Gentlemen when I consider how much this Country has suffered by 
languid efforts; which instead of expelling the common enemy, have only 
served to exhaust the treasures of the United States; prolong the war 
and discourage the Citizens by a series of misfortunes. When I consider 
that the enemy are now entirely possessed of two States ; occupy important 
post in several others; and hold uninterruptedly the Province of Canada, 
containing more territory than all the thirteen L'nited States; and that 
this Province, which almost encircles them, must from its situation, and 
by the natural increase of its inhabitants, soon become sufficiently power- 
ful in conjunction with the naval force of Britain, to deprive us of those 
privileges for which we have so long contended. That a peace ratified 
by Great Britain at this time, should even every post in the United States 
be given up to Congress, must finally end in the destruction of our liber- 
ties ; for a long continuance of peace would only serve to render a conquest 
over us more certain. As it has ever been allowed that all forms of 
government which must Eventually end in the ruin of itself ought not to 
be adopted; so that situation which will in time bring destruction upon 
those who hold it, ought at all events to be avoided. Should peace be 
restored even upon the terms before mentioned, the increase of inhabitants 

2 Sullivan's plan, in the form of an address to Congress, follows (no. 90, post). 
Washington's reply, May 29, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 58, with an account of 
its interception by the British and its publication in London. See no. 152, post. 
[90]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 89, ante. The address and the contemplated motion were not presented. 
See no. 152, post. 



7G Continental Congress 

in every part of America will undoubtedly be in proportion to the extent 
of territory in each ; and the Province of Canada will undoubtedly from 
its great extent, the goodness of its soil, and the advantages of its exterior 
and interior fishery and navagation, have almost as great an increase 
of inhabitants as the whole of the United States together. Of course an 
uninterrupted peace for a number of years, will only serve to accelerate 
the conquest of them, upon the commencement of hostilities, for Britain 
will only have to put her naval force in motion and the whole of these 
States from their situation with respect to Canada will be immediately 
invested by land and Sea : but should we be compelled to make peace 
upon terms less favourable, and the enemy be suffered to keep possession 
of every part of America which they now hold, a long continuance of 
peace will ensure to Britain without difficulty, that conquest which her 
arms have hitherto been unable to accomplish. 

These considerations induce me to propose to Congress an immediate 
invasion of Canada, as the only means of relieving the Southern States, 
securing the liberty, and independence of the whole, and obtaining a peace 
upon terms favourable to their interest, to accomplish which no great 
expence of men or money will be requisite. As the inhabitants of Canada 
since our Alliance with France are well disposed to second us in the 
attempt; as that Country abounds in flour and other articles of subsistance 
for the Army; and the possession of the lower part of Canada will of 
course reduce every fortress of the enemy on the Lakes, and compell 
their Indian allies to sue for peace ; as a road is now cleared within thirty 
miles of St. Johns and 45 of St. Dennies and may be compleated in fifteen 
days, I would propose that the Due de Soison's legion, the New Hamp- 
shire line, and Hazens regiment, with some batallions of Militia from 
the New England States, and Vermont, not exceeding 6000 in the whole, 
be detached upon this exi)edition by the first of August next. That cattle 
only be furnished and sent on as there is a sufficiency of flour in Canada 
for support of the Army, while there; that the military and ordinance 
stores be sent from the most convenient posts in the New England States ; 
and that the commanding Officer be impowered to inlist such volunteers 
in Canada as he may find necessary for making a sudden and complete 
conquest of the Country. 

91. John Mathews to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 2: 1781. 
Dear sir, 

You will no doubt think it some thing singular, that the inclosed should 
be of so old a date, and handed to you with this, but the reason of it is, 
that it was meant to go by Govr. Rutledge, who intended paying a visit 
at Head Quarters, but being taken ill, tho' expecting daily to be in con- 
dition to prosecute his journey, finding that not likely to be soon the case, 
I have requested Mr. Duane to be the Bearer of it.- 

[91 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 This was probably his letter of Apr. 16 (no. 63, ante). Washington's reply, June 7, 
is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 70, (ed. Ford), IX. 273 (in part). 



May, 1781 77 

Our last Accounts from Europe are very flattering particularly from 
Spain. From some circumstances that have lately taken place at that 
Court, it seems more favourably disposed towards us, than it hath hitherto 
been. And as soon as some late determinations of Congress, can arrive 
there, we have little room to doubt, but what our expectations in that 
quarter will be fully compleated. 

The decisive measures pursuing by Holland, supported as they are, 
by the strongest assurances from Russia, places the war in Europe on the 
most formidable footing against G: Britain. Although the Emperor of 
Germany puts on the appearance of war, (and is, as generally supposed, 
in favor of G : Britain) Yet it is most likely he will be too much overawed, 
to enter seriously into it.^ 

How unfortunate is it, that with all these bright prospects in our favor, 
we have little or no ability to profit by them. However, as you will see 
Mr. Duane, and who proposes making a full communication to your 
Exc'y of the present state of our affairs, I shall forbear to ingroce your 
time with any further observations on that subject. 

The inclosed extract of a letter, sent us by Genl. Moultrie, will shew 
yr. Exc'y what a deplorable state our unfortunate prisoners at Chs. town 
are likely to be reduced to, unless some thing can be immediately done for 
their relief. We are further informed L'd Chs. Montague has enlisted 
between 5 and 600 of our Continentals, and was daily engaging more, 
all intended for the West India service, so that, they must be for ever 
lost to us. The Committee of correspondence, by order of Congress, have 
written to Genl. Greene on this subject, to take the most effectual measures 
to effect an exchange, as far as his powers extend, but it's likely he will 
want some instructions from you on the business.* 

92. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia May 5th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I enclose the paper of this day principally that you may see the Step 
the Executive of this State has taken with respect to the rate of Exa. 
of the Old Continental money, which has occasioned considerable uneasi- 
ness of this City, insomuch that the President and his Council have 
thought proper to publish their motives and reasons in a handbill, which 
I cannot obtain to Send by this Opportunity. There is reason to believe, 
that in consequence of the means adopted by the Executive, Old Continen- 
tal money to a considerable amount has been forwarded to the Southward 
to be dispos'd of immediately, Jersey having likewise proclam'd the rate 
to be 150. As many individuals in our State, not withstanding this money 

3 Cj. nos. 84, 88, ante. 

* Concerning the instructions to the " Committee of correspondence ", that is, the 
committee whose function was to correspond with the commanding officer in the Southern 
department, see no. 84, ante. Apr. 28 another matter pertaining to the Charleston prisoners 
was referred to a committee of which Mathews was chairman. This committee made a 
report the same dav, which was acted upon by Congress Mav 2. 

[92]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 83; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 230. 



78 Continental Congress 

is not current by Law, may be injured for want of Notice, I was induc'd 
to give you this information to be made publick if you think proper. 
The Exa. before this measure was abt. 225. If the old mony passes for 
any thing after this Bustle [is] over it is probable it will be considerably 
more than double the Exce. just mentiond. A few days will determine. ■ 
I write this in a hurry and conclude. 

93. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall.^ 

Phila. May [June] 5th 1781. 
My dear Sir, 

I thank you for your favor of the first Inst. Censor had much better 
in my opinion employed his Penn in attempting to heal breaches than to 
have widened them. As to one of the Riders I do not care hozv soon he 
is changed. 

The Governor has informed Mr. Carroll that our supply of Money 
shall be speedy, and therefore it would be doubting his and the Councils 
attention at this time to apply immediately to the Genl. Assembly,^ but 
our wants are so great that Mr. Carroll who has been for some days and 
still continues unwell could not apply to the Doctor because he had not 
Money to pay him for his Visit and Medics. The first Resolution of 
the Committee of the whole will do very well, the second perhaps is too 
broad. See what the other States do in this business before you carry 
your Resolution into a Law. Congress have laid the foundation of a 
general Bank which will preclude the idea of erecting others. Congress 
have heard nothing from General Green lately nor of the success you 
mention. 

I expect that General Wayne will be able to join the Marquis tomorrow 
and that he will have it in his power to check the progressive motions 
of the Enemy. 

Mr. Carroll and I wrote to the Genl. Assembly to add two Members 
to the Delegation. We expected the choice would have been immediately 
made and that we should have seen by this time Mr. Johnson, Mr. Stone, 
Mr. Carroll ^ or yourself. Subjects of the last importance to the United 
States are before Congress, and unless we have the assistance of one or 
two of you in the course of this week it will be too late even for a finger 
to be put into the Pye, indeed my friend it will turn out as we ever ex- 
pected, that if there is a peace we shall have very little to say to the 
terms of it. Therefore I wish our State would Stop the Sales of British 
and Refugee property for at least a Month or two till the Scene opens 

2 Cf. nos. 93-98, 108, 109, post. The Pennsylvania Packet, May 5, carried the pro- 
ceedings of the Pennsylvania council May 2 and 4, relative to the rate of exchange, and the 
issue of May 8 contained a statement (one and a half columns) on the subject, signed by 
President Reed. It was doubtless this statement that was issued as a handbill. Both items 
are found in Freeman's Journal, May 9. 

[93]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. This letter should evidently have been 
dated June 5, but the discovery is made too late to change its chronological place. 

2 See nos. 34 (note 3), 47, ante, and nos. 108, 109, post. 

8 This " Mr. Carroll " was doubtless either Charles Carroll of Carrollton or Charles 
Carroll, " Barrister ". The " Mr. Carroll " mentioned at the beginning of the paragraph 
was of course Daniel Carroll, the delegate, who was then present in Congress. 



May, 1781 79 

a little wider. We can do as some other States do, rub on without it: 
and however Congress may have spurned at the idea when Mr. Adams 
desired instruction on this head, they will I believe now reverse their tone/ 
The King of Great Britain told you by his Commissioners that he would 
sooner part with his Crown than give up those who had sought his pro- 
tection, and his obstinacy is unparaleled. Mr. Carroll and I thought of 
recommending this Subject to the consideration of the General Assembly 
immediately after the Minister laid his Memorial before Congress, but 
upon reflection finding that we were not at liberty to give our reasons 
for the adopting the measure we agreed to Postpone our interference 
till we were, concluding that not much would in this respect be done in 
the mean time. My friend, the French are powerful in the West Indies, 
perhaps they will Conquer Clinton there, hut whilst the Grass grows the 
Steed starves. 

I shall enquire for the Maps and Pamphlet you mention. I am with 
my compliments to Mrs, Hall 

D'r Sir your affectionate friend 

Dan of S Thos. Jenifer 



94. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia May 5th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Executive of New Jersey in consequence of authority vested in 
them by the Legislature for that purpose, by an Act of the 27th Ulto. 
established the rate of exchange between the old continental currency 
and the bills issued pursuant to the Act of Congress of the i8th of March 
1780, to be 150 for i. The Speculation arising from this measure to the 
prejudice of this State with the other reasons stated in the inclosed publi- 
cation by the Executive Council led to their act of the 2d instant therein 
referred to declaring the rate between the two kinds of money above 
mentioned to be 175 for i.^ The effect of this declaration has been a 
confusion among the people of this City approaching nearly to tumult, 
a total Stop to the circulation of the old money, and a considerable stag- 
nation and increased depreciation of the new.' The difference between 

* Cj. no. 148, post. The resolutions of Congress relative to enemy property, to 
which Jenifer alludes, were adopted Oct. 18, 1780. 

[94]! Hist. See. of Pa., Dreer CxAX., M. O. C, III. 105 (signed, "By order of the 
Delegation, J. Madison Junr."). 

2 See nos. 92, 93, ante ; cf. nos. 95-98, post. 

' The following appeared in the Roval Gazette, Mav 13 : 
"THE CONGRESS'S FINAL BANKRUPTCY 

"By a person arrived from Philadelphia, we are iniornied that last Saturday [/. e.. 
May sl a large body of the inhabitants with paper dollars in their hats by way of 
cockades, paraded the streets of Philadelphia, carrying colours fliying, with a DOG 
TARR'D, and instead of the usual appendage and ornament of feathers, his back was 
covered with the Congress's paper Dollars, this example of disaffection immediately under 
the eyes of the rulers of the revolted provinces in solemn session at the State House 
assembled, was directly followed by the Jailor, who refused accepting bills in purchase 
of a glass of rum, and afterwards by the traders of the city, who shut up their shops, 



80 Continental Congress 

the latter and hard money is at present vibrating from 4 to i downwards. 
Should the Circulation of the former therefore revive, its value can not 
exceed 1/700 of that of hard money. The opportunity which this circum- 
stance gives and which we have reason to believe many are already taking 
measures to improve, of fraudulent speculation not only on the Citizens 
of Virginia, but on the State itself, is so obvious and alarming that we 
thought it our duty to set an Express in immediate motion to put you 
on your guard against the mischief. 

The inclosed list of prisoners taken by Capt. Tilly has been communi- 
cated to us by the Minister of France in consequence of our application. 
We shall select such of the names as have already been mentioned by 
your Excellency as obnoxious and dangerous to the State, and put them 
into the hands of the Minister, who as well as the French Commander 
is entirely disposed to secure the State from all further apprehension 
from their malice. If there are any other names which you would wish 
to add to your former list we beg to be informed of them by the first 
opportunity. If there are any of the Prisoners who are not considered 
as objects of wwc/t dread, particularly of those who hold commissions 
we believe our Allies would chuse not to be deprived of the use of them 
as subjects of exchange.* 



95. The Virginia Delegates to the Goverxor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia May 8th 1781. 
S'r, 

Having so lately and so often wrote to your Excellency we have little 
new to Communicate at present; the confusion respecting money still 
continues in this City, tho with less commotion than could be expected 
as in a few days the old Continental money has depreciated from two 
hundred to seven, eight, and some say nine Hundred for one. the new 
money has of course suffered in proportion — what this Convulsion will 
end in, it is difficult to surmise, in the mean time we are in infinite distress 
as may be easily supposed; the Currency of the old money has been 
sto[pped] for some days past and it is said to day that the new is about 
to share the same fate.^ 

In the midst of these misfortunes we have the pleasure to transmit to 
Yr. Excell'y a Copy of a letter from Genl. Cornell one of the members 
of the board of War, who has been deputed by Congress to visit the 
Magazines, and if possible to send to the southward such Arms, Cloathing 
and Military stores as we are in want of.^ 

declining to sell any more goods but for gold or silver ; it was declared also by the popular 
voice, that if the opposition to Great Britain was not in future carried on by solid money 
instead of paper bills, all further resistance to the mother country were vain, and must 

be given up " 

* See no. 50, ante. 
[gsV Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, I. 47 (signed by Smith and Bland). 

2 See nos. 92-94, ante, 96-98, post. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 21. 



May, 1781 81 

We have also the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency that about three 
thousand Suits of Cloathing are safely arrived at Boston from Spain, 
which our Friend the King of Spain has Enabled our Minister at that 
Court to procure. 

N. B. About 400 of the Rampart arms to be made into good Muskets 
and fixed with Bayonetts for the State as advised in ours of last week are 
finished and will be sent forward immediately and the others are finishing 
with all possible Expedition.* 

96. Daniel Carroll to the Gk)VERNOR of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

Philadelphia May 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you a few lines last Saturday informing you that large Sums 
of the old Continental money were sent to the Southward to be got rid 
of immediately in consequence of the Step taken by the Executive of this 
State. The enclosed paper contains a publication of the President and 
Council explaining their motives. The confusion still subsists in this city, 
I believe little or nothing can be bought here at present for the old money 
at any rate.'' 

I believe I lately enclosd to you a return of some cloathing which had 
been forwarded to Genl. Greens army. I have now the pleasure of inform- 
ing you that two Vessels are arrived to the Eastward with Cloathing from 
Cadiz. A great part of this Supply will probably be applied to yr. Troops 
under Genl. Washington. Before this arrival Several articles were ordered 
as underneath 

97. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, May 8th. 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The great and sudden fall of the old Continental money, has 
occasioned very great convulsions and Dissatisfaction in this city, and 
has reduced all paper currency to a very doubtful state, very many re- 
fusing to have anything to do with it.^ We have no official accounts from 
General Greene or the Southern Army since the beginning of last month. 
Report says he has turned his face towards Camden — if so, I doubt not 
he had good reason for his conduct. Mr. Robert Morris is appointed to 
superintend the finances of the United States. Great matters are expected 

* See no. 81, ante. 
[96]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 80; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 234. 

2 See nos. 92, 94, 95, ante, 97, 98, post. James Swan wrote to Dr. John Witherspoon, 

from Boston, May 24 : "I received yours of the 8th instant The immense sums 

forced in here from your quarter, has entirely stopped the circulation and value of the 
old paper currency. The new is going fast — there has been most horrible doings by specu- 
lators from Philadelphia. I am very fortunate in being but slightly effected by the wreck." 
Royal Gazette, June 13, 1781. 

[97]! McRee, Lije of Iredell, I. 511. 

- See nos. 98, 99, post. 



82 Continental Congress 

from this gentleman's abilities. The finances of no country were at any 
time more deranged or more in want of wisdom and political knowledge 
to make them effectual. 

98. Samuel Johnston to Allen Jones.^ 

Philadelphia, May 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

I wrote you a few days since by an express to the Governor of Virginia, 
informing you of the downfall of the old continental dollars in this city. 
They still lie prostrate, nor is there the least probability of their ever 
rising.^ / mtist repeat my request that you will either come or send some 
one to relieve me. I should have left the State unrepresented had not so 
many others been in that situation. All the States to the Eastward of 
Jersey, and the State of Maryland, are without a vote in Congress, so 
that some of the most important business cannot be determined on agree- 
able to the Confederation. The scarcity of current cash makes it difficult 
to keep the several departments in motion. The pernicious practice of 
selling foreign bills at little more than half their value, is, for very sub- 
stantial reasons, laid aside.^ My particular necessities must be too obvious ; 
I therefore say nothing on that head. 

99. Samuel Johnston to Thomas Burke.^ 

Philadelphia May 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Since you left us, no great matters have been concluded in Congress 
except that Mr. Morris has agreed to accept the appointment in agitation 
when you went away. Congress having agreed to his terms in substance. 
Two ships are arrived at Boston with clothing for the Army purchased 
by Mr. Jay at Cadiz. We have likewise received Letters from that Gentle- 
man, [and] Mr. Carmichael. The general disposition of the European 
powers are favorable to the common cause, as far as I am capable of 
Judging from such circumstances as have come to my knowledge. From 
a variety of Intelligence it would appear that Gen. Clinton means to make 
a grand movement, so much, that many think he will evacuate New-York 
altogether. In favor of this opinion they say two ship loads of the In- 
habitants have sailed for Halifax, that others have bespoke passages 
and that some of the principal Inhabitants have sold their Estates at a 
price greatly under the value. It is certain that a great number of refugees 
from Jersey have returned and thrown themselves on the mercy of Govern- 
ment. The Council of this State a few days since rated the State money, 
one dollar of the new equal 175 old Continental. This has produced great 

[98]! McRee, Life of Iredell, 1. 509. 
■' Cf. no. 88, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 27. The letter from Jay (Jan. 28, 1781) whidi led directly 
to this action is largely in cipher and undeciphered. Cf. his letter to Secretary Thomson 
Apr. 23, and that to the President of Congress Apr. 25, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 
381, .384. 

[99]! N. C. Hist. Comm., Thomas Burke Letter-Book, 1774-1781. 



May, 1781 88 

convulsions and in some measure stagnated the currency of all kinds of 
paper. Those who receive it, make the difference of four State Specie 
as it is called for one silver dollar. Gk)d knows where it will end. The 
Assembly is called to meet the latter end of this month. ^ 

Pray do not neglect to extend all your influence for my relief. I 
would come off at any event, but I am of too much importance, for with- 
out me they could not make a Congress. Maryland is still unrepresented, 
and so is every State to the Eastward of Jersey. I expect you will have 
hot work this summer. I wish much to take a chance among you, for 
here, I am of no other use but that of filling a blank. I hope soon to have 
the pleasure of hearing from you. 



100. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

May 8, 1781.' 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favor of the 26. of April reached me yesterday. Your Troops 
are coming on " in large numbers." The General informs you that Tents 
etc. will be much wanted ; and the Court will make their " usual Exer- 
tions ". Indeed Doctor I am persuaded that in a Comparative View 
Massachusetts will appear to have been among the most vigorous States ; 
but we are at this moment in the most disgraceful and hazardous Situation 
from the Backwardness of every individual State. Foreign Troops are 
to garison West Point because foreign Troops can feed themselves, and 
are paid. Our Quar'r Mast'r genl. has been obliged to sell some of his 
provision to enable himself to transport the rest to a Skeliton of an Army 
in Want of the very Pounds of meat or Flour which he has been forced 
to part with. If you know of a Compliance with one Requisition of 
Congress, in Time and Quantity, do let me have it that I may show it 
to the Delegates of the 12 States who cannot produce a single Instance. 

We are in an Uproar here about the Money. Sailors with Clubs parade 
the Streets instead of working for Paper. The Beer houses demand hard 
for a Pot of Drink ; and all this because the Council have published that 
the difference between Silver and old Continental was 174, the latter hav- 
ing been sold 180 and 200 for one several Days. Did Massachusetts sink 
its Quota by the ist of April? Some States had not then begun to sink a 
vShilling.' 

You say Mr. Partridge and Mr. Osgood are coming on : I ask with 
what money in their Pockets? That of our State is not counted money 
here. The old continental is dying by Yards not Inches 

- Cj. nos. 92-98, ante, tio. 100, post. 
[ioo]i Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 230, 

- Preceding this letter in the volume named is a brief letter of the same date, evi- 
dently written later in the day, and touching upon some of the same matters. Then follows 
this remark : " I scratched a Letter and would not trust it to the Post. Perhaps I shall 
send it by Mr. Payne who goes tomorrow." It was, no doubt, the letter here printed 
that he was unwilling to trust to the post. Cf. no. 102, post. 

^ Cf. nos. 88, 92-99, ante, loi, 104, 105, no, 116, post. 



84 Continental Congress 

loi. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia May 8th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I observed in Rivingtons paper a Letter from you Informing me that 
I might Draw upon you for two hundred pounds State money, which 
Letter was intercepted in the mail taken at the Clove and Rivingtons 
publication of it is the first Intelligence I have had respecting money 
for my Support for Six months past.^ I am unwilling to say much re- 
specting money or other affairs least This might fall into the Enemys 
hands. Continental money is received here by few persons ; when it is 
passed a Decree of the Governor and Council has fixed it at 175 for one 
State Dollar and these State Dollars pass only at five for one of Silver 
and are Daily falling. New money from other States pass at forty for 
one of the old Continental ; of course four of your Dollars will not pur- 
chase one of this State and five of them must be Employed to obtain a 
Silver Dollar, which when purchased will not go so far in Supporting a 
person here as half a Dollar formerly would. ^ 

The Sum you or rather Mr. Rivington Informs me I may Draw for 
is 666 Dollars and two thirds. This upon the calculation I have before 
made would Neat me 70 Silver Dollars and two thirds which would pay 
Eight weeks Lodging for a Single person without Servant Horse Liquor 
Wood Candle or any other Article. 

I have prevailed on a friend of mine to take a Bill on you as he is 
going Eastward and give me New money of this State for that of New 
Hampshire dollar for dollar. This makes the 70 Silver Dollars amount 
to 133 and this would Last as Long as half the Sum would in 74. I need 
make no Comments : I am willing to Submit to any Inconvenience to 
Serve my Country but to be an Embassador and a Beggar at the same 
time would be disgraceful, not to me but to my constituents. 

I do not mention these things by way of Complaint ; it would be unjust 
and ungenerous to Censure an assembly or State who have Exerted them- 
selves more than any other to Support the Common Cause, but it is my 
duty to give Every Information necessary for them to know and perhaps 
my own feelings may be (Though not falsely yet) too strongly painted 
in the representation. 

[ioi]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8i B 27. 

^Weare's letter to Sullivan, dated at Exeter, Mar. 17, was printed in the Royal 
Gazette of Apr. 25. The committee of safety had been directed, he said, to forward some 
money but had not had it in their power to do so because there was no money in the 
treasury. " The General Assembly are now met, and have directed me to inform you, that 
you may draw bills on me, payable at four days sight, for any sum you may have occasion 
for, not exceeding two hundred pounds, in bills of the new emission, issued agreeably to 
the resolution of Congress, of the i8th of March, 1780, which bills so drawn on me shall 
be duly honoured." 

3 See no. 100 (note 3), ante. 



May, 1781 85 

102. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

May 9th, 1 78 1. 
My dear Sir, 

I had begun to write to you, to go by Post yesterday, but fell upon a 
Topic not fit to be trusted in that way, and therefore covered you a news 
Paper under a few Words of Intelligence.^ I had a private Occasion to 
write afterwards to Mr. Gerry somewhat largely about money, and there- 
fore do not add any Thing to the inclosed Scrawl, persuaded that he will 
converse with you respecting my Letter and the Position of your Delegates 
here. But I must not refrain from adding that their private Embarrass- 
ments are but a small Clue towards explaining their public. Congress with- 
out their money Presses, depending on the punctual Supplies of the States 
are, at this critical Period of the Campaign, as a Set of Clockmakers from 
whom an Orrery or Microcosm is expected tho' their Hands are evidently 
struck with the dead Palsy. 

I shall trouble you not again with any private Concerns. If I can hobble 
up Street I will endeavor to make the Backwardness of the Printer of 
the Journals less and less a Disadvantage by giving you often manuscript 
Heads of what you ought to know. 

103. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philada. May 9, 1781. 
Hon'd Sir, 

Mr. Samuel Curson and his partner Mr. Isaac Gouverneur, junr. after 
St. Eustatius was taken were put on board the Vengeance Man of War 
Com'dore Hotham to be sent to England stripped of every Thing but 
their wearing apparel, their Books Papers and Slaves having been taken 
from them and Mrs. Gouverneur with a young Infant turned out of 
Doors. Special Severity, it is supposed, has been shewn to them in Conse- 
quence of their acting as Agents to Congress. Doctor John Witherspoon 
junr. also who was Surgeon of the De Graaf Letter of Marque taken at 
St. Eustatius, is sent to England in the Alcemena Man of War and very 
hardly treated on Account of his Father being a member of Congress, 
as is supposed. 

Your particular attention to the Exchange of these Persons will tend 
to give a general Confidence to all who being connected specially with 
Congress are exposed to Captivity, and will also very particularly oblige 
the Relations of these Unfortunates who have requested Congress to 
mention these Circumstances to you.' 

[i02]i Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 231. 

- The first of these letters referred to is no. 100, atite; the second that mentioned in 
note 2, ibid. 

[103]! Am. Phil. Soc., Franklin Papers, vol. XXII., pt. I., no. 13 (signed "James 
Lovell, For the Com'tee of For. AfFrs"); Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 405 (with 
numerous variations of phraseology). 

2 Nothing concerning this matter appears to have found record in the Journals. 
See no. 160, post ; also Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 624, 708, 847 ; Hays, Calendar of 
the Franklin Papers, III. 393, 423, 458; Fitzpatrick, List of Franklin Papers in the 
Library of Congress, pp. 105, 109, 113-115. 



86 Continental Congress 

104. Samuel Livermoke to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare),* 

p. <-.. Philadelphia May 13th, 1781. 

I arrived at this place last evening and tomorrow I intend to go to 
Congress. I have the pleasure to find Genl. Sullivan well and as Our 
State has had no vote in Congress for some time past he is determined 
to tarry here for the present. There is nothing here as interesting as the 
present fluctuation of paper currency. The old continental is as low as 
500 for one. Our State new emission is not known here as Pensylvania 
have not emitted their new emission of Continental but made an emission 
of their own State mony in stead of it. Connecticut did the like. So that 
I had the utmost difficulty to travel thro' Connecticut, York, Jersy and 
Pensylvania on paper mony. And being here I cant live one day on our 
State mony. Their own State mony which they made to be equal to hard 
mony goes at about six for one.^ .... 

P. S. I think on farther information that our old acquaintance and 
friend Paper mony is going to be ranged out. 

105. Meriwether Smith to John Beckley.^ 
^. Philadelphia, May 13th, 1781. 

I have been detained here since the first of this Month for want of 
Money to enable me to leave the City and to pay my travelling Expences, 
to Virginia. Such is the State, of Things in this City that it is difficult 
to obtain a daily Subsistance; owing to the violent Shocks the Credit of 
the paper Currency hath received. I hope the Evil will be in some degree 
remedied by to morrow,^ in which Case I shall set out for the Genl. 
Assembly, who I hope will consider these Circumstances and not be im- 
patient for my Attendance, according to Order. 

I have the Honor to be, with very great Esteem, Sir, 

Yr. most obedt. servt. 

M. Smith 

106. The President of Congress to the States from 
New Hampshire to Pennsylvania.^ 

f.. Philada. May 14, 1781. 

The United States in Congress have this Day received Intelligence 
of so alarming a Nature that they think it their indispensible Duty immedi- 
ately to forward it to you ; and at the same Time to assure you that upon 
a serious Review of public Affairs they are convinced that unless the 

[104]^ N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, IX. 109. 

2 C/. no. 100 (note 3), ante, and nos. 116, 121. 123, post. 
[105]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " Jno. Beckley Esq. Clk of the House of Delegates Virga."). 
2 See the Journals, May 8, 14, 15, 17, 22, and no. 104. note 2, ante. 
[106]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 288; Mass. Arch., CCH. 292; 
N. J. State Lib. ; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 278. 



May, 1781 87 

several States immediately and punctually comply with the Acts and 
Requisitions of Congress the worst of Consequences must ensue. 

Had the States paid due Attention to the Act of i8th March 1780 and 
complied with the Requisition of the 26th August, the Quarter Master 
would have been in Capacity to do his Duty and to have forwarded the 
Supplies which the States were called upon to furnish by the Act of 4th 
November. But as that has not been done the States must now not only 
furnish the Supplies but they must also forward them to the Places where 
they are wanted. For this Purpose I enclose an earnest Recommendation 
passed this Day upon Receipt of the Intelligence above mentioned, and 
flatter myself that from the Necessity of the Case, your State will strain 
every Nerve and exert every Power to send forward the Supplies and 
prevent the fatal Events which must otherwise inevitably ensue.* 

107. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Con"necticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, May 14, 1781. 
Sir, 

My official despatches to your Excellency which accompany this will 
shew the alarming situation of the army and posts to the northward on 
account of provisions.^ I have long since been convinced that the present 
method of supplying the army with provisions by requisitions on the 
several States, a method dictated merely by necessity, is and will be 
attended with great difficulties and embarrassments, yet Congress have 
no other means in their power at present to obtain the necessary supplies, 
and must depend upon the States to furnish them agreeable to their 
requisitions as the only means to keep the army together. 

Congress in the mean time are endeavoring to devise other means, if 
possible more eligible to feed the army, to be put in practice as soon as 
possible, but without money nothing can be done. The delegates from 

2 The intelligence referred to was no doubt that contained in Washington's letter 
of May 8 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 240), read in Congress this day. According to the 
Journals, Washington's letter, together with letters from Lafayette and Governor Jefferson, 
was referred to Sullivan, Varnum, and Montgomery ; yet later in the day a committee, 
consisting of Witherspoon, Bland, and Carroll, made a report upon that letter, and it 
appears to have been primarily upon the basis of that report that this letter of President 
Huntington was written. The appointment of the latter committee is not recorded in the 
Journals, but the endorsement on the letter indicates that it was a new committee, to take 
the place of the committee first named, although there named in the order Bland, Carroll, 
and Witherspoon. 

One part of Washington's letter however pertained to the Gates court of inquiry, and 
on May 18 this part of the letter was referred to Sullivan, Varnum, and Atlee, the only 
change from the committee first named on the letter being the substitution of Atlee for 
Montgomery. A memorial from Gates, dated Apr. 24, had been presented to Congress 
Apr. 25 and was ordered to be transmitted to Washington, which was done by President 
Huntington Apr. 26. That part of Washington's letter here referred to was in response 
to this communication from the President. See the motion of Varnum May 24 {Journals, 
P- 533n-). and nos. 126, 156, post. 

A letter from Gen. John Armstrong, sometime member of Congress, written from Phila- 
delphia May 10 to an unidentified correspondent and relating chiefly to Gates's memorial, 
is among the Armstrong Papers, Force Transcripts. 

[107]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, IH. 227. 
2 The circular of May 14 (no. 106, ante). 



88 Continental Congress 

Connecticut who lately left Congress will be able to represent the distress- 
ing situation of public affairs from the state of our finances, yet at the 
same time from all accounts we can collect there are plentiful resources 
in the country 

loS. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall.^ 

Dear Sir, Phii^. May isth 1781. 

The late scale of Depreciation as laid down by the Presidt, and Council 
of this state has thrown every thing into Confusion; no Money except 
hard will pass in this City but at the most ruinous rate. Our Northern 
Army is starving, and Congress have it not in their power to remove 
one hundred barrels of Flour. 

I received from the Treasurer of our State Three hundred and forty 
pounds of the New Emission in Consequence of an order from the 
Gov. and Council, part of this money I exchanged for Continental, being 
told it was money that was preferred in Phila. to any other paper. On 
my way up I met numbers of speculators from Phila. with quantities of 
Continental to pass it off in our State. How they succeeded I know not, 
but that, nor any other paper will now pass in this City but at the most 
destructive rate. I have therefore returned the Continental to Mr. Stone 
in hopes the Assembly will give directions to the Treasurer to receive 
this money in exchange for Bills of the New Emission, I should also have 
returned the New Bills (for I cannot pass them here) but they are too 
bulky. What the Maryland Delegates will do for want of Money, I do 
not know, there is but one mode by which they can be supplyed i.e., to 
order a quantity of superfine Flour, to be manufactured at the Head of 
the Bay. Superfine flour will command hard money. Should this plan 
be adopted by the Assembly or the Governor and Council Mr. Joseph 
Gilpin will execute it with dispatch. Col. Hollingsworth has too much 
upon his hands to pay proper attention to this business, besides he might 
not be in the way when this order might arrive at the head of Elk. Had 
I hard money or could I procure it on my own Credit, I should not hesitate 
to pledge myself. If no mode of supply can be fallen upon, I must soon 
return to Maryland.^ 

Our affairs are in a most wretched situation. Congress is at its wits 
End — everything at a stand and unless the French fleet and Army arrive 
very soon we shall in all probability be in the most deplorable situation. 

The navigation of the Missisippi has prevented us from procuring 
supplies from Spain. Congress have relaxed and made this point in the 
Ultimatum Negotiable, but too late for any supplies for this Campaign.' 
The Emperor has defered his Mediation. I fear that there is too good 
an Understanding between the Courts of Vienna and London. 

We have received no late advices from Europe. 

[P. S.] The Back Lands as a fund will be attempted in a day or two. 

[108]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 68; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and 
Biog., XXIX. 198. 

2 Cf. nos. 34, 47, 93, ante, 109, 113, 129, 134, post. 
8 See the Journals, Feb. 15. 



May, 1781 »9 

109. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphl\ May 15th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The late scale of depreciation settled by the Presidt. and Council of 
this State, has had such an effect upon the Minds of the people at large in 
this City, that no paper Money will pass but upon the most ruinous terms ; ^ 
nor will it be in our power to continue here without Your Excellency and 
the Council can fall upon some other Mode of Supply than that of Paper 
Money. We know of but one, and that is to direct the Grinding up some 
Wheat at the head of the Bay into Superfine Flour; this Article will 
command hard Money without which, nothing can be done at this place. 
Mr. Joseph Gilpin would undertake this business and execute it with 
dispatch. Coll. HoUingsworth the Comm'y Genl. has too much on his 
hands to allow him to pay proper attention to this Mode of Supply, besides 
he might be from the head of Elk when the Order might reach that place, 
and our situation is such that delay would be distressing.' 

no. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia May the 15 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my Last I have had the pleasure of being Joined by Mr. Liver- 
more; he had much difficulty in getting here with the Assistance of paper 
money (only) and finds himself unable to pass it here at any rate, paper 
money received a fatal stab here about ten days since. Indeed it has 
Ever been an amazing Loss to the Eastern States to Send paper to this 
place as it would take four times as much here to purchase a hard Dollar 
as would be requisite there. But there now Seems to be a Stop put to 
paper in this City for the present. I have borrowed hard money for my 
Support for a Long time past : but now we are both under a necessity 
of Drawing on you for hard money. I shall Draw for two hundred pounds 
and Mr. Livermore for one. I did not make the Exchange mention'd 
in my Last as I found it would answer no purpose." 

III. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Phila: 1 6th May, 1781. 
D'r S'r, 

Having returned to Congress a few days only and private matters 
requiring my attention for great part of the time I have not been able 
regularly to attend to Business or to acknowledge the receipt of your 

[logji Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 82 (signed by Jenifer and Carroll) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLVII. 244. 

2 See nos. 92-98, 108, ante. 

3 See no. 108 (note 2), ante, and nos. 113, 129, 134, post. 
[iio]i N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, IX. in. 

2 See no. 109 (note 2), ante. 
[iii]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 313 ; Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 74. 

10 



90 Continental Congress 

favour transmitted to Philadelphia after my leaving it and sent after 

me to Virginia by Mr. Madison ^ We are told all the Ships of war 

have left New york with abt. 2000 Troops, after having once put back. 
Adieu. Pardon the haste of this Letter wch is written in Congress in 
consequence of the Presidents information an Express was going off for 
Head quarters. 

112. John Sullivan to George Washington.* 
Dear General, Philadelphia May 17th, 1781. 

I was Last Evening honored with Your Excellencys favor of the nth 
Instant.^ I am sorry that the Report Respecting ])romotions has been 
so long Delayed, but this delay has not been Occasioned by any Difference 
in Sentiment between your Excellency and the Committee. Your Reason- 
ings were attended to and there Remains no Difference of Sentiment 
between us though perhaps Congress may make some alterations Disa- 
greable to us all. 

The Report has Long Since been Made to Congress, two Days have 
already been Spent in Considering it and I flatter Myself that this Day 
will bring it to a Conclusion.^ The Situation of Colo. Tilghman and other 
Gentlemen of that Line has opened a Field Extensive Enough and Oc- 
casioned Much delay. I hope however to Obtain Such a Determination 
as will do Justice to the feelings of Those Gentlemen who have Merited 
so Much from the public. I Lament exceedingly the Distresses of our 
Army, the deplorable Situation of our Public Affairs, and tremble for the 
Event. Mr. Robert Morris has Accepted the office of Minister of Finance 
upon which I Sincerely congratulate Your Excellency and My Country.* 

The appointment of the other Officers is delayed for Reasons which 
I cannot comprehend. The ostensible one Respecting a Minister of War 
is that There is no man Existing upon whom Congress can agree.^ Many 
of the Members Say that if Your Excellency or the principal Officers 
Would Recommend any person they Would immediately proceed to the 
Choice of that officer, and I presume that of Marine as also that of 
Foreign Affairs Would follow of Course. We have No News worthy 
Your Excellencys attention. 

113. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

^^^ Philadelphia May 19th, 1781. 

We immediately upon receipt of the Letter you honord us with by 
Mr, Croxall, laid it before Congress, who refered it to a Special Coni- 

2 An omitted passage refers to the probable movement of the enemy against the 
Southern states and the consequent need of aid to those states. See no. 136, post. 

[ii2]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 66, vol. L, p. 378. 

2 See no. 87, ante. 

^ The measure was passed May 25. See vol. V., no. 571, and no. 21, ante, nos. 127, 
128, post. 

* See the Journals, May 14, and nos. 14, 46, 48, ante. 

'• Cf. nos. 14, 24, 25, ante, and no. 265, post. 
[113J1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 83 (signed by Jenifer and Carroll) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLVII. 247. 



May, 1781 91 

mittee. We have some reason to believe the measure proposed cannot be 
carried into execution, as a report on an appHcation to send provision to 
Charles Town for the prisoners there, was rejected. It is therefore proba- 
ble, the report will go no further, than that the State may send Tobacco 
for the purposes mentioned. The Board of War having wrote to Genl. 
Washington to know of S'r H'y Clinton whether Tobacco woud be re- 
ceived at Charles Town to be disposed of for the use of the prisoners, 
his answer may likewise determine whether it woud be receivd at New 
York. We hope to be able to inform you of the determination of Congress 
by the post " 

P. S. We return to the Treasury by Mr. Croxall, the money which 
was drawn for us, we can make no use of it here. 

114. The President of Congress to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed).^ 

Circular. Philadelphia May 19th, 1781. 

Sir, 

Congress are under the disagreable necessity of informing you that 
they have received Advices from the Commander in Chief and Officers 
commanding Seperate Posts assuring them that unless Supplies of pro- 
visions are immediately furnished by the States the Army must disband 
and some of the most important posts be evacuated. 

This alarming Intelligence Congress have thought proper to communi- 
cate to the respective States and at the same time to assure them that 
unless prevented by a full and speedy Compliance of the States with the 
Requisitions of Congress those fatal Events must inevitably take place. ^ 

115. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular. Philadelphia May 19, 1781. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, the Copy of a Resolve of the 
17th Instant, recommending to the several Legislatures to enact Eaws 
making further Provision (as specified in the Resolve) to guard against 

2 The letter from Governor Lee, dated May 10, was read in Congress May 17, and 
a report was made upon it May 25. The letter is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 430. See also the 
council to Washington and to Charles [M.] Croxall, same date, ibid., p. 431, and Croxall 
to the governor and council, May 14 and 26, ibid., XLVII. 241, 254. The letter from the 
board of war to Washington, dated May 2, and Washington's reply, May 16, are in the 
Washington Papers. Other letters (ibid.) relating to the subject are: Washington to the 
board of war May 29, Lafayette to Cornwallis June 2, 20, Cornwallis to Lafayette June 4, 
28. Lafayette transmitted the correspondence with Cornwallis to Congress July 21, and 
President McKean transmitted it to Washington July 26. See no. 217, post. 

[114]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Collection, M. O. C. ; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 151. 

' This letter does not appear in the President's Letter-Book. It is of the same 
purport as the circular letter of May 14 (no. 106, ante), and inasmuch as no text of that 
circular addressed to President Reed has been found it seems probable that this later and 
modified letter took the place, in the case of Pennsylvania, of the circular of May 14. 

[115]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIIL 26; Arch, of Md., XLVIL 246; Mass. Arch., 
CCIII. 287; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 289; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
IX. 151. 



92 Continental Congress 

the Abuses and deceitful Practices of the British by making use of Papers 
and Clearances they may take in America Vessels 

The Measures recommended in this and the former Resolve of the 
nth of November 1780 become the more necessary, as our Allies have 
not only suffered by the Deception of the British, but in several Instances 
our own People in the West Indies have also suflfered from the French 
under the Apprehension that they were British, for Want of Evidence 
and proper Documents to evince the contrary. 

116. John Witherspoon to Richard Henry Lee/ 

Philadelphia May 19, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

A few Days ago I was favoured with yours of the 27th of April by 
your Brother. - 

.... You must have heard before now of the dreadful Blow which 
Paper Money of all Kinds has lately received. It is lamentable to think 
how our Operations are hindered, our Army distressed and our Funds 
missed by our trusting to Paper Money. Just now my son in law has met 
with a stroke of that kind. When he left Virginia he sold his Furniture 
on Credit, has been paid in Paper and his Brother bringing two Weeks 
ago several thousand Pounds continental money it perished in his hand 
in one Week and would not enable him to travel 50 miles. 

A Committee of Congress of whom I am one have been making a last 
Eflfort for putting an End to the use of Paper but though some of the 
parts of our System have been adopted I am aflfraid it will be finally 
defeated by those still hankering after the partial use of that deceiver.' 
It is probable you will have the News upon this and other subjects sent 
you fully by your Brother. Some Dispatches came to the Minister of 
France to day of which we shall know the Contents on Monday — if there 
be any thing particularly interesting that can be communicated I shall 
either write it to you by the Post or tell him that he may write it.* 

We have got a new Delegate from N. H.® but I cannot as yet tell much 
about his Principles or probable Conduct. Mr. Duane is gone and New 
York is not represented neither is Connecticut, Rhode Island nor Dela- 
ware, a Piece of Neglect wholly inexcusable at this Time.* The President 
of Congress asked Leave lately to go home and a Day was fixed for the 
Choice of another. The Ballots being taken upon that Day no one had 
more than two Votes so that we requested the President to continue and 
it was f>ostponed sine die and I think it probable he will continue till the 

[ii6]iMd. Hist. Soc., Gilmor Papers, vol. III., div. 5 (addressed, "Richard Henry 
Lee Esqr at Chantilly to the Care of the Postmaster of Leedstown Virginia"). 

^ Lee's letter of Apr. 27 to Witherspoon is not known to be extant. 

3 See the Journals, May 8, 14, 15, 17, 22, and nos. lOO, loi, 104, 105, no, ante, 
121, 123, post. 

* See the Journals, May 22, 23, 28 (pp. 549, 556), June i, 2, 4-9, 11, 13-15, r8, 19; 
cf. nos. 122, 130, 131, 152, 153, 157, 168, post. 

'' Samuel Livermore. See no. 104, ante. 

*> A letter from William Churchill Houston to Governor Livingston May 19, in- 
sisting upon a division of labor in attending Congress, was in the collection of the late 
Judge Garrett D. W. Vroom of Trenton. 



May, 1781 98 

Fall. I believe if your Colleague Mr. Jones would have agreed to serve 
he would have been chosen. If a new attempt is made I think either he 
or Mr. Jenifer of Maryland will be the Man.^ We are all at present very 
anxious about the Situation of your State and impatiently looking for a 
greater Sea force. 

117. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia May 20th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The various accounts we frequently have here, and the want of infor- 
mation from you, puzzles us exceedingly: a thousand conjectures are 
formed, but your true situation we can learn nothing of, A man arrived 
here yesterday, one Jennette, who says he left you before Camden on 
the 2y Ulto. and that it was expected that place would surrender to you 
in the course of four or five days. This will serve you as a specimen of 
the Reports I have above alluded to. You may readily suppose our anxiety 
is not small, when we receive such intelligence, to hear something from 
the fountain head. We so frequently receive similar intelligence which 
is soon again contradicted, that we are grown callous, and believe nothing 
but what we get officially. I hope we shall soon hear from you, and be 
relieved from this cruel state of doubt and uncertainty ; and I flatter my- 
self when it does arrive, it will be pleasing; tho' I must confess, we have 
little reason to expect it. 

Congress have at last put the means in Genl. Waynes hands to march, 
and I have no reason to doubt, but what he is this day on his march. Had 
this been done six weeks ago (which might as well have been then done, 
as three days ago) he would in this hour been with you, and in all proba- 
bility prevented the present movements of the enemy. But whilst we have 
men at the head of our affairs, who are uniformly opposed to the least 
deviation from the plain John trot mode of doing business, whose souls 
are confined within the compass of a nutshell, and who like Dean Swifts 
Peter, Jack, and Martin, tremble at the very Idea of doing anything, 
that is not strictly enjoined them by their fathers Will tho' the salvation 
of the country depended on it, I say whilst we have such Quidnunc poli- 
ticians to manage our affairs, we must expect nothing vigorous, or de- 
cisive, being done. However they have at length in one instance blundered 
across the Rubicon (but I believe most of them did it with their eyes shut, 
as Children do, when they walk in the dark, for fear of meeting the Devil 
in their way) — I mean the vote that was passed, giving powers to Genl. 
Wayne, to press provisions on his march, whenever he wanted them. 
Perhaps you may laugh at my making such a fuss about this affair, as 
your army is fed by scarcely any other means. But remember there is no 
such power literally given to Congress by Confederation and to act up 
to the spirit of it, is a doctrine supposed to be big with many evils, there- 
fore reprobated. I conceive it to be a great point gained, to drive them 

" See the Journals, May 8, 10, July 6, 9, 10 (pp. y2>2, 7Z7), 12; cf. nos. 33 (note 2), 
40, ante, and no. 190, post. 

L.I 17]^ William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 



94 Continental Congress 

from this ground ; it looks like conceding the point, and that necessity will 
oblige them to interpret the powers given by the Confederation in their 
utmost extent, and in my opinion, ought upon some occasions, to be 
strained to answer the great purposes of war. But I apprehend, when 
these Doughty heroes have opened their eyes, and looked back on the 
tremendous gulph they have passed, they will be astonished at their own 
temerity; and the next they come to, they will make a halt, to examine 
their tender consciences, whether, after having escaped so great a danger 
with impunity, it would be prudent to tempt their fate again ; and most 
probably, the result will be, that they are sure the Devil must fly away 
with them, should they sin a second time, and of course they will aposta- 
tize.^ In which case, it will a Herculian labour to bring them back to the 
charge. 

The backwardness of the States in executing the requisitions of Con- 
gress is intolerable, and when they do, it is in such a loose, discordant 
manner, that their small exertions produce little good, from whence 
principally arises our embarrassments. It therefore appears to me abso- 
lutely necessary, and for the true interest of the Union, that the several 
states should give to Congress Dictatorial powers during the war, and 
instruct their Delagates to take the most vigorous measures for prosecut- 
ing the war. This power is certainly more safely lodged in the hands 
of such a body as Congress, than any other. The only objection I have 
to it is, that I am afraid, they will want spirit to do their duty, but this 
may be remedied by spirited instructions. Something like this must soon 
be done or I am clearly convinced our affairs will grow from bad to worse, 
which must end in our utter ruin. Those states that are in perfect tran- 
quillity, and feel nothing of the effects of the war, will I know, be averse 
to such a measure, therefore I despair of its being done, but they will too 
late find, when the house falls, they will inevitably be crushed in its ruins. 
We must either stand or fall together. However they may amuse them- 
selves with the Idea of sacrificing some for the good of the whole, the 
hypothesis will prove fallacious, divida et impera, is an axiom that will 
prove as certain, as it is old. 

I am My D'r Sir with sentiments of the most sincere Esteem and Regard 

Your most Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews 

1 18. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. May 22, 1781. 
Sir, 

By the enclosed Copy of a Resolve of the 21st Instant you will be 
informed it is the Sense of Congress That, as from the Situation of public 
Affairs a Court of Enquiry cannot speedily be held, you are at Liberty 
to repair to Head Quarters, and take such Command as the Commander 
in Chief shall direct 

2 Mathews first wrote " return to their old ", then substituted " apostatize ". 
[118]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 290. 



May, 1781 95 

While I lament those Impediments which prevent such immediate En- 
quiry as I am perswaded you would wish to take Place, I presume the 
Zeal and Attachment you have at all Times manifested for the Service 
and Interest of the Confederacy will not suffer her to be deprived of the 
Services of an experienced and able Officer at this important Crisis. 



119. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

May 22d, [1781.] 
D. Sir, 

.... I have already mentioned to Mr. Adams his Namesakes Plan of 
a Loan in Holland and our Receipt of a most cordial Letter from the 
King of France upon the Representation of our Finances last November. 
We have not yet the Detail of his friendly Intentions. They are com- 
municated in Cyphers.^ .... 



120. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia May 22d, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Your dispatches of the 22 and 27 Ulto. were very welcome to us, not 
having heard from you for so long a time before." The accounts we heard 
from time to time, seemed only to confuse, instead of inform us. I lament 
with you the unfortunate turn in the action of the 23d Ulto. It must 
have been a most mortifying circumstance to you to have such a victory 
snatched out of your hands by the blunder of a single man. It was not 
only the immediate advantages resulting to us, that we are to look to, 
but the eclat that would have been given to our arms abroad, this would 
have been of still more importance. However, we must look for better 
fortune another time. 1 dare not flatter myself so far as to say, I shall 
yet hope to hear of the reduction of Camden, but I will rest satisfyed 
with this assurance, that every thing that can be. will be done for the best. 

Congress this day received a very affectionate and friendly letter from 
the King of France.^ He gives us every assurance of the most substantial 

[iig]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 232. 

2 Lovell wrote to Nathaniel Peabody the same day, principally upon private 
matters, but added a postscript to say, " We have this day had a most cordial Letter from 
the K'g of France" (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., lovell). See the Journals, May 22, 23, 
28. The letter, dated Mar. 10, 1781, is found in the Journals under May 28, also in 
Wharton, Rev. DM. Corr., IV. 277, 

[lao]*^ William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 See no. 117, ante. Greene's letters were read in Congress May 21 and referred 
to a committee of which Mathews was a member. The committee brought in a report 
May 26 (see the Journals, pp. 544, 548). Mathews is not however here writing as a mem- 
ber of that committee, but either as an individual member or as chairman of the committee 
of correspondence. There is little if any differentiation to be discovered between his 
letters to Greene signed individually and those signed as chairman. 

An extract of a letter from Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to an unknown correspondent, 
May 22, is in Henkels' Catalogue, no. 683, item 331. It relates chiefly to Greene's operations 
at Camden and to the appointment of Robert Morris as superintendent of finance. 

" See no. 119, ante, and nos. 122, 128, post. 



96 Continental Congress 

aid, as far as his abilities, and the exigencies of affairs in Europe will 
admit of. He speaks in the most tender and feeling manner on the 
distressed situation of our affairs, and says he will risque embarrassing 
his own affairs in order to afford us some relief, at the same time calls 
on us in the most polite, yet pathetic terms to make every exertion in our 
power to Co-operate with him in his endeavours for our peace and happi- 
ness. He expresses the highest regard for these states in general and for 
each state in particular. In short, true magnanimity, firmness, and affec- 
tion run through the whole of it. He refers us to the Minister for a 
particular detail of matters, who says he will give it to us, as soon as he 
has got his letters deciphered, and properly arranged. 

Genl. Wayne marches from York town tomorrow but I am afraid 
he will be too late to render you much service. Should Cornwallis, and 
Phillips, form a junction (which I believe there is little doubt of) and 
be reinforced with the detachment now gone from N. York — 2000 men — 
I imagine all your feeble efforts must be at an end, and you must seek an 
asylum in some other quarter. 

Genl. Washington is now at Weathersfield, holding a conference with 
the French Genl. and Admiral. Govr. Rutledge sets off for Headquarters 
tomorrow, where he purposes making but a short stay, and then to return 
immediately to join you. I most sincerely wish you uninterrupted health, 
and may the Supreme Disposer of human events, crown your generous 
endeavours with deserved success. 



121. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. May 22 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

On my arrival at Congress I found no delegate from New York nor 
has any been here since, consequently no mention has yet been made of 
Vermont. 

As to the business of the States I can with pleasure inform you that 
congress are coming into a new plan of raising mony and a more frugal 
plan of spending it. The general voice seems to be to emit no more paper. 
To call in what is emitted as fast as it can conveniently be done. To loan. 
To tax in hard mony, To furnish the army with provision cloathing stores 
etc. by contract etc. I dont mention these things as done, but as in con- 
templation. Continental debts to be liquidated in hard money and put upon 
interest if agreable to the creditor.^ .... 

I have drawn the 19th instant for 1333^ dollars being the only sum 
that offerd and must continue to draw on the State but should be glad 
to hear the sense of the Court upon the subject.^ .... 

[i2i]i N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 115. 
2 See the Journals, May 22. 
« Cf. no. 1 10, ante. 



May, 1781 97 

122. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Sir, 

Mr. Xicholson we presume will communicate to your Excellency or his 
Principal the State of the Business committed to his Care. He has we 
believe been greatly embarrassed for want of Money, and it has not been 
in our Power to afford him Assistance although our Endeavours have 
been exerted for the Purpose." 

The Chev'r Luzerne has received within a few Days past Dispatches 
from his Court. The Contents of them have not yet transpired but we 
expect they will in a day or two be communicated to Congress. No doubt 
but from the present State of Affairs in Europe they must be important 
and interesting to America.^ Mr. Carmichael writes the Committee of 
Correspondence that Mr. Cumberland had left Spain and returned to 
England thro' France, but notwithstanding his Negociations are at an 
End, Conferences will be soon opened for the Accommodation of the 
Disputes between the belligerent Powers under the Mediation of the 
Emperor — he gives this as his Conjecture and not from Official 
Authority.* 

Count Rochambeau, in consequence of Advices received by his Son 
who arrived in the Ship that brought over the Admiral to take the Com- 
mand of the French Fleet at Rhode Island, requested a Conference with 
General W'ashington — they are now together — and the Operations of the 
ensuing Campaign will We expect be digested and we hope the Forces 
of our Ally be put in Motion. We are really reduced to Extremities for 
want of Money — the State Paper passes under great Depreciation and not 
willingly received by the People, Specie appears to be the Money chiefly 
in Circulation. How the State will furnish us with that Article we know 
not unless the Assembly will authorise Mr. Ross their Agent to purchase 
Flour for the Southern Department and exchange it for the specific Supply 
of Maryland so far as to answer our Exigencies. The Maryland Flour 
may be delivered at the Head of Elk, and we apprehend disposed of for 
Gold and Silver ; unless something is done to furnish us with Money to 
bear our reasonable Expences at this Place we must sell what little Propv- 
erty we possess here or return to Virginia.^ Your Excellency will pardon 

[i22]i Public Record Office, A. W. I. 140:517 (new reference, C. O. 5 : 102, copy) ; 
Lords Journals, vol. XXXVI., p, 391B, no. 83. The letter bears the endorsement: " Copy 
of a Letter from the Delegates to Congress from Virginia to the Governor 22d May, 1781. 
(3) In S'r Henry Clinton's Letter of the 13th July." 

2 See the delegation letter May i, Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 80. 

8 See no. 116, ante, and no. 130, post. 

* Carmichael's letter, dated Mar. 11, read in Congress May 21, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dip!. Corr., IV. 279. In a letter of Jan. 29 {ibid., p. 242), read May 15, he had 
written : " Mr. Cumberland is still here, inspiring all the distrust and jealousy in his 
power to prejudice our affairs. I hope however he will soon be dismissed." See also Jay 
to Congress Apr. 25 {ibid., p. 384). Concerning the first appearance of Richard Cumber- 
land at Madrid see Carmichael's letter of July 17. 1780 {ibid., III. 865). From that time 
he is frequently mentioned in the letters of Carmichael and Jay. Some remarks upon his 
mission are found in the reports of conferences with the French minister May 28 and 
June 18. For a thorough study of the affair see S. F. Bemis, The Hussey-Cumberland 
Mission and American Independence (Princeton, 1931). 

5 See no. 145, post. 



98 Continental Congress 

our giving you the Trouble of representing to the Assembly any Matter 
that particularly respects ourselves but our present Situation will we hope, 
apologise for, 

Your obedient Servants 

'Jos. Jones 

[Signed] Delegates- 



Phila: 22d May 1781, 



Jas. Maddisok Junr. 
Theop'us [ Theo'k] Bland 
M, Smith 



123. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

(Circular) _ Philadelphia May 24, 178 1. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, several Resolves of Congress 
of the 22d Instant, upon the report of a Committee appointed to devise 
further ways and Means to carry on the present Campaign. 

As the Measures proposed in these Resolves are the result of Necessity 
after due Deliberation, it is expected the necessity as well as the im- 
portance of those measures will have a suitable Impression upon the States 
universally, and excite them to a vigorous and punctual Compliance.* 



124. Abraham Clark to John Stevens.^ 

Princeton, May 24th 1781. 
Sir, 

My long and steady attendance in Congress for sixteen months past, 
makes it necessary for a relaxation of my mind and restoration of my 
health, that I retire for some time at least, and if agreeable to the legisla- 
ture I wish it may be to the end of my present delegation, and that my 
resignation may be accepted, which this is intended to solicit. 

By my absence there will be but two members remaining, and they 
mean to attend only one at a time ; this in the course of a few days will 
deprive this state of a representation unless an appointment of one or 
more members speedily take place, I continued of the same opinion as 
heretofore, that three are preferable to five, provided such can be found 
who will devote their time to that service, and unless they do I am clearly 

[123]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (letter to Governor Jefferson) ; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 24; Arch. 
of Md., XLVII. 254; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 291; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., IX. 163. 

2 See nos. 116, 121, ante. When the letter addressed to Governor Jefferson 
reached its destination his term had expired (June 3), and it was not until June 12 that 
Thomas Nelson was chosen governor. The executive authority in the interval was exer- 
cised by William Fleming, the only member of the council remaining in Staunton, the 
temporary seat of the state government. A letter from Fleming June 7 to Benjamin Harri- 
son, speaker of the House of Delegates, respecting this letter and one from the board of 
war May 25, relative to the Convention prisoners, is in Official Letters, III. i. The letter 
to Jefferson is endorsed, " Referred to Comm'ee of whole on the State of the Common- 
wealth ". 

[124]! Library of Congress, Stauffer-Morgan Collection of Signers of the Declaration 
of Independence ; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 279. 



May, 1781 90 

of opinion you had better have none, but in this I do not suppose that 
one member is to attend aiway and the other two alternately, which hath 
long been the case; few constitutions can bear such constant attendance, 
some relaxation is necessary. 

With due regard and esteem I have the honor to be, sir, your obed. and 
humble servant, 

Abra. Clark 

The Hon. John Stevens, Esq., Chairman of the Joint Meeting. 

125. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Huntington.^ 

<^. Hartford 26th May, 1781. 

I have been honored with your letter of the ist instant, which I should 
have earlier acknowledged, had I not expected that you would probably 
have left Congress before that a letter could be received. I am glad that 
you have consented to tarry longer than I expected, as I know that your 
services are much wanted in Congress. Mrs. Sherman and Mrs.^ Ells- 
worth will be at Philadelphia by about the time that you will receive 
this letter. It will probably be no information to you, to say that the 
last election has caused no alteration in council, except by the addition 
of Col. Adams, and Mr. B. Huntington ; the delegation the same with the 
addition of the last mentioned gentleman 

126. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 
<j.. Philadelphia May 28, 1781. 

By the enclosed Resolve your Excellency will be informed that the 
Convention Troops are to be removed from their present Stations. 

In Consequence of this Resolve the Board of War have ordered them, 
the Commissioned Officers to East Windsor in Connecticut, the non com- 
missioned Officers and Privates to Rutland in Massachusetts. 

Would it not be preferable to have them exchanged if it could be eflFected 
on reasonable Terms, rather than to continually increase the enormous 
Expence incurred by supporting, marching, counter-marching and guard- 
ing such of them as have not escaped. 

You will also receive enclosed, a Resolve of the 21st Instant respecting 
Major General Gates. It may not be improper to inform your Excellency, 
that in Consequence of this Resolve, the General in a very decent Letter 
to Congress informed them that he could not be useful in the Field or 
think of going into Service in his present Circumstances. It were to be 
wished some Mode might be devised to relieve him from his present 
anxious though inactive Situation." 

[i2sY Royal Gazette, June 13, 1781. 

2 " Mrs." in both instances is evidently a misprint for Mr. 
[126] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book (Papers 
Cent. Cong., no. 16), p. i. 

2 Washington's reply, dated June 6, read in Congress June 12, is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), IX. 271, (ed. Sparks), VIH. 69. Concerning these proceedings see no. id6 (note 2), 
ante, and no. 156, post. Another letter from Gates, dated May 22 (Letters to Washington, 
ed. Sparks, IIL 319). enclosing a letter from Washington to him May 12, was read in 
Congress May 23. A draft of Washington's letter to C^tes is in the Washington Papers. 



100 Continental Congress 

127. The President of Congress to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia May 28, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Congress 
of the 25th Instant containing the general Principals to be observed in 
Promotions in the Line of the Army 

This Plan hath been adopted upon mature Deliberation, to be observed 
as a general Rule in Promotions, as subject to the fewest Objections of 
any that could be devised (though not altogether free from them) under 
the peculiar Situation and Circumstances of the federal Army, raised and 
recruited from so many distinct sovereign States.^ .... 

128. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 28th 1781, 
My dear General, 

Though the Distresses of our Army, the Success of the Enemy in the 
Southern States, the certainty of the Second Division not coming to 
America; and the Disposition of the Sovereigns of Russia, and Germany, 
to dictate a Peace; when the uti possidetis if admitted would Operate to 
deprive us of very important parts of the united States, Yet I cannot 
forbear congratulating your Excellency on the general Compleation of 
our afifaires which in my Opinion wear a more promising Aspect Than 
they have done for many years. 

The Reinforcement from France though far short of what was in- 
tended, will (I trust) enable us to undertake offensive operations by Land 
and Sea. the Generous Donation of his most Christian Majesty with the 
measures adopted by Congress and by our Financier will enable us to pay 
and supply our Army. The Cloathing Arrived and now on its passage 
will enable us to Cloathe our Army, the Measures adopted by the French 
Court will furnish us with the necessary Munitions of war. The Exer- 
tions of Mr. R : Morris will in a few Days give you a permanent Supply 
of provisions Independant of the Supplies expected from the States. The 
Late important discoveries made by Congress have at Length convinced 
them that Honesty is the best policy; These will restore our Lost credit.^ 
The prospects of a peace being Dictated to us by an armed neutrality will 
rouse Congress and the States to Exertions which may put us on a 
footing to negotiate on Terms of Equality. The scrupulous adherence 
of his Christian Majesty to the Terms of the Alliance; The favorable 
Disposition of the Spanish Court; and the interest which the powers 
of Europe have discovered in our becoming an Independant Nation 
promise us every thing in a Negociation which our Exertions and their 

[ 1 27 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 2. 
2 C/. vol. v., no. 571, and nos. 21, 112, atitc, no. 128, post. For proceedings 
looking toward a modification of the act of May 25 see the Journals, Nov. 16, 20, 1781, 
Jan. 9, 10, 19, Feb. 28, 1782 ; also no. 567, post. 
[128]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Means of recovering lost public faith had particularly concerned Congress for 
some time. See especially the report of the committee on finance Apr. 18 and Robert 
Morris's letter of May 14, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 412. 



May, 1/81 101 

political Interest may Dictate, but amidst all those flattering prospects 
we are now called upon to make our Last desj^erate Struggle to pave the 
way to that peace and Independance for which we have so long contended. 
Congress do and I am convinced the States will feel the necessity to 
exert every nerve at this critical moment and I do not entertain a Doubt 
of the Success.^ The rule of promotions has with much difficulty passed ; 
which though not in every respect agreable to my mind is much better 
than any thing yet adopted. The Committee fell in with your Excellency's 
reasoning but the obstinacy of ignorant members in some degree mutilated 
the plans. The Arrangement of the Artillery and Cavalry was rejected 
because it was supposed to militate against the Confederation; other 
parts were rejected for different reasons and some for no reason at all 
but I flatter myself that as it now Stands it will answer our views in Some 
Degree.* I should be more particular with your Excellency upon European 
Intellig[ence] but Your Late conference at Weathersfie[ld] Must have 
Superseaded the Necessity. Though my own Domestic affairs will Soon 
compell me to Leave Congress your Excellency may rely on every exertion 
of mine during the Little time I shall remain and upon all the Influence 
I may have in the State of N : Hamps're after my return. 

129. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall(?).^ 

Phila. May 28th 1781. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... Yesterday and today arrived from the Havannah Eight sail of 
vessels with Hard Money. The merchants I am told pay very little regard 
to the embargo Law, indeed the State has not money to purchase the third 
of any vessels Cargo even were it to be offered to the President and 
Council 

Your Delegates are without Money or Credit.^ What are they to do, 
none but hard will pass at this place unless it be on the most ruinolis 
terms 

There never has been a time when Men of abilities were more necessary 
in Congress than at present, therefore I wish that proper attention may 
be paid to the Delegates Letter by this Post to the General Assembly. We 
are not at liberty to disclose particulars, but the sooner an addition is made 
to the Delegation the better as delay cannot be admitted altho at every 
Post want prevails, yet I flatter myself that our affairs will soon look 
up and that supplies will soon be had. 

P. S. Mr. Cumberland was about leaving Madrid the 9th of Ma[rch.] ' 
I think his stay there was rather too long for the United States. 

3 See the memorial of the minister of France and the report of the committee 
thereon, in the Journals, May 28; also the circular letter to the states June i. See nos. 119, 
120, 122, ante, 130, 136, 141, 157, 161, post. 
* See no. 127, ante. 
[lagji Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 60: Pa. Mag. of Hist, and 
Biog.. XXIX. 199. 

2 See nos. 108, 109, 113, ante, and no. 134, post. 

3 See no. 122, ante. 



102 Continental Congress 

130. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia May 29th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

If Ever a People were called upon for vigorous Exertions by the pressing 
Situation of their Affairs and Entreated to make their Last Struggle 
against an implacable Enemy The Americans at this moment are in that 
Situation: we are now upon our last Campaign; if vigorous Exertions 
render it Successful we Shall Sit down Quietly in the Enjoyment of that 
Independance for which we have so Long contended but if Languid Efforts 
render our attempts unsuccessful we are ruined past relief. 

The Emperour of Germany and Empress of Russia have offered their 
mediation to the Belligerent powers ; The Acceptance is inevitable. France 
and Spain have given Answers, which will work a delay but can by no 
means preclude a Compliance with Their demand. To have a peace dictated 
to us when our Army is in the most feeble situation, in the greatest want 
of provisions through the want of Exertion in the States: when the 
Enemy are possessed of two States and are carrying their Conquests into 
others ; when prescribing the iiti possidetis as a Basis of Accommodation 
would forever ruin the United States would be a misfortune far beyond 
what the Calamities of war could possibly produce. To Avert the danger 
and to obtain a Peace upon honorable Terms Every exertion must be used 
to push with Vigor This Campaign (which will probably be our Last.) 
The King of France to Enable us to Act with vigor has made us a Dona- 
tion of Six Million of Livres, this will put our Finances on a respectable 
footing.^ The Exertions of Mr. Robert Morris our financier with the 
plans pursuing by Congress will render them still more so. Arms Ammu- 
nition and Cloathing are provided by the French Monarch, which will 
Soon be here. The King of Spain is also Supplying with Cloathing and 
will furnish some money, a reinforcement from France which though 
not So respectable as we could wish will we flatter ourselves with our own 
Exertions render us Superiour both by Land and Sea, and Enable us to 

[130]^ N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 122 (signed by Sullivan and Livermore). 
- See the Jourtmls, May 28, June i, 2, 4-9, 11, 13-15, 18, 19; cj. nos. 116, 119, 120, 
122, ante, and nos. 131, 152, 153, 157, 161, post. The proposed mediation by the Empress of 
Russia and the Emperor of Germany was communicated to Congress by the minister of 
France May 26. The memorial is in the Journals, May 28, and in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., IV. 440. Following the memorial in the work last named may be found the response 
of France (p. 441), that of Great Britain (p. 445), and the answer of the mediators (p. 446). 
The same documents are found ibid., pp. 860-866, in connection with a verbal communica- 
tion from the minister, laid before Congress by the secretary for foreign affairs Nov. 23, 
1781. The preliminary articles of peace proposed by the mediators are to be found there 
in full, embodied in the French answer. Likewise is found there (p. 866, no. 5 of the series) 
the answer of the court of France to the mediators. 

It is stated in a foot-note (p. 863) that the documents "A" and "B" mentioned in the 
British answer are missing. A comparison with the British answer as found at page 445 
shows that "A" is the latter half of " No. 2 ", while " B " (called " C " on p. 445, probably 
through a typographical error) is evidently " The verbal answer of the King of Great 
Britain to the verbal observations made by the Count Belgioso ", found at p. 446, which is 
identical with document no. 3 on p. 864. The preliminary articles, with some excisions, are 
also at page 561, having been transmitted to Congress in a letter of John Adams July 11. 
For discussions of the project consult the index to Wharton (Mediation, imperial). See also 
no. 487, post. 



May, 1781 103 

regain what we have Lost prior to the Ratification of a peace and Enable 
us to Treat with advantage. 

The Scrupulous adherence of the French Monarch to his obligations, 
The favorable Disposition of the Court of Spain toward the United States 
and The Political Interest of the European powers in rendering us Inde- 
pendant will all operate to procure us That Freedom and Safety for which 
we have Spent So much blood and Treasure. 

We cannot under the present Situation of AflFairs avoid Entreating 
you and through you the assembly of New Hampshire to use Every possi- 
ble Exertion to Take advant[age of] the present State of facts, profit by 
the a[ssurance] which we have received and thereby avoid the Conse- 
quences which Languid Efforts must certainly produce. 

131. James Lovell to Samuel Holten.^ 

May 29, 81. 
D'r Sir, 

.... You will be anxious about our Intelligence from Europe. We 
have much but I am too greatly overcome by the Heat, to sweat over 
the Consideration of what I ought to communicate to be consistent with 
an Obligation to Secresy imposed at this Time with a propriety not always 
connected with that Injunction in our continental Assembly. However, 
I may tell you that your own Printers have given you quite enough to 
show you that the Wheel of Time will not afford you another six months 
as the Coming.^ Political Glory or Infamy of a lasting Kind is most 
assuredly depending on them, more especially on the two first of them, 
in which there must be an almost universal Change of Manners. Every 
Requisition already made must be fully complied with, and even more 
must be in forwardness. Let not the former Calls of once for all make 
us callous on this Occasion. The Execrations of Posterity will fall more 
justly perhaps on the Inattention and Negligence of the States distant 
from the immediate Carnage of the War than upon the Despondency and 
Cowardice of those in which it centers, should we finally be disgraced 
by a Combination of all those Circumstances 

132. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. May 29th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The two circumstances relating to the proposed duty on Trade men- 
tioned in your favor of the ist instant were subjects of discussion when 
the measure was on the anvil. It was evident that the disposition of the 
States to invest Congress with such a power wd be influenced by the length 
of the term assigned for the exercise of it. It was equally evident that 
no provision would satisfy the present creditors of the V . States, or 
obtain future loans that was not commensurate to all the public engage- 

[i^i]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., XIII. 233. 

2 See no. 130, ante. 
[132]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; YVritings, I. 136; Papers, I. 96. 



104 Continental Congress 

ments. In order to reconcile these points the duration of the impost was 
limited, but limited in so indefinite a manner as not to defeat the object 
of it. Should the increase of Trade render the duty more productive than 
was estimated it must the sooner extinguish the public debts and cease. 
The application of Congress for such a power supposes indeed a confidence 
in them on the part of the States, greater perhaps than many may think 
consistent with republican jealousy, but if the States will not enable their 
representatives to fulfill their engagements, it is not to be expected that 
individuals either in Europe or America will confide in them. The 2d 
objection you mention was also a subject of much discussion in Congress. 
On one side it was contended that the powers incident to the collection 
of a duty on Trade were in their nature so municipal, and in their operation 
so irritative that it was improbable that the States could be prevailed on 
to part with them, and that consequently it would be most prudent to ask 
from the States nothing more than the duty itself, to be collected by State 
Officers and paid to a Continental Receiver, and not the right of levying 
it and collecting it by Officers of Congress. On the Opposite side it was 
urged that as Congress would be held responsible for the public debts 
it was necessary and would be expected, that the fund granted for dis- 
charging them should be exclusively and independently in their hands, 
that if the Collectors were under the controul of the States, the urgency of 
their wants would be constantly diverting the revenue from its proper 
destination, that if the States were willing to give up the thing itself 
it was not likely they would cavil at any form that wd be most effectual, 
that the form proposed might be reconciled with their internal jurisdictions 
by annexing to the Office of Collector all the ix)wers incident thereto, and 
leaving to Congress the right of appointing the Officer. How far it may 
be best to appoint the established naval officer, I am not prepared to say, 
but should that be found to be the case, they will exercise their new 
functions, not as Naval officers of the State, but as invested with a 
separate commission by Congress in such manner that in the former 
respect, they are wholly exempt from the jurisdiction of Congress, and 
in the latter from that of the State. Such a junction of powers, derived 
from different sources, in the same person certainly has its inconveniences, 
but there will be many instances of it in our complex government.' .... 

133, The Board of War to the Several States,^ 

War Office May 30th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Board do themselves the honour to transmit to you, a resolution 
of Congress of the 23rd instant also a resolution of the nth of April 
last by which you will discover that they depend upon the arrears of 
specific supplies for the last campaign which have not yet been furnished 
by the different States to make good their engagements with the Court 
of France. 

2 See vol. v., no. 633, and references. 
[133]^ Chicago Hist. Soc, Gunther Collection (signed by William Grayson) ; Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, VH. 203; Arch, of Md.. XLVH. 258; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 186. 
Following the signature to the Maryland letter is the phrase, " By order of the Board ". 



May, 1781 105 

As the honour and faith of the United States is so materially concerned, 
there is every reason to expect, the most decided exertions in the States 
to enable Congress to comply with their contracts. 

The Board requests you will be pleased to acquaint them with your 
expectations on this head and what they may probably depend on." 

134. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia May 30th, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... Congress has received advice from the westward that an expe- 
dition from the Lakes against Pittsburg is contemplated. 

We expected by last Post that your Excellency would have informed 
us what prospect you and Council had of making remittances for our Sub- 
sistance. We are without Money, and almost without Credit, and without 
a timely supply it will be impossible for us to continue in Philadelphia.* 

P. S 



135. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia, May 30th, 1781. 
My dear Sir: 

I thought about this time to be making preparations for leaving this 
place, but none of my colleagues appearing to relieve me, several States 
being unrepresented in Congress, and affairs of the first magnitude being 
now on the tapis, I thought it inconsistent with my honor to leave the 
State unrepresented at so interesting a period. Notwithstanding my 
anxious impatience to return to my family, I have determined to stay till 
I am relieved, or at least till the States are more fully represented in 
Congress 

The uncertainty of a letter's getting safe to you, lays me under great 
restraints.^ .... 

136. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Phila: 31 May 1781. 
My Dear S'r, 

I am this moment informed that Mr. Rutledge is going to Head Quar- 
ters and have stolen out of Congress to give you a few lines to impress 
upon you the necessity of taking some immediate step for the succour of 

2 The resolution of Apr. 11 is in the Journals, p. 373, that of May 23 on p. 528. 
President Reed's response is in Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 187. 

[134]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 84 (signed by Jenifer and Carroll) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLVII. 258. 

- See no. 129, ante, and nos. 146, 155, 176, post. The reply to this letter, June 4, 
is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 461. 

[135]! McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 518. 

2 An omitted passage relates to the assurances of friendship and support from the 
King of France. 

[136I1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 76. 



106 Continental Congress 

the southern departm't. The Marquis's Letters will inform you of his 
situation and will of itself without being enforced by me shew the distress 
that must soon fall upon our State if not speedily succoured.^ For some 
days I have waited with impatience to hear from you, not doubting your 
anxiety for the southern States had determined you to measures for their 
support as far as you have the means in your power. This expectation 
and an opinion entertained that you must be fully informed of the late 
intelligence from Europe, has delayed my writing to mention these matters. 
The proposed mediation of the Imperial courts cannot be declined by the 
belligerent Powers although delayed by France and Spain for a short time 
to know the dispositions of the States. The most powerful exertions are 
necessary not only to give weight to the negociations of our plenipo- 
tentiary, but to recover our lost territory to prevent the difficulties of the 
proposition of uti possidetis. Congress are giving the necessary com- 
munications to the States and are endeavouring to stimulate them to 
emulation at this conjuncture which more than ever calls for our own 
exertions in consequence of our disappointment from France. The aid in 
money though will, it is to be hojDed, enable us to do something beyond 
what it would otherwise be in our power to effect. Virga. receiving so 
little aid from the North occasions many of her citizens in their letters 
to the Delegates to insinuate that as they are not concernd in safety, they 
care not for the southern States. This notion is but too prevalent and is 
of dangerous tendency to slacken the efforts of the people and more readily 
dispose them to submission. I hope your deliberations with Ct. Rocham- 
beau have determined upon relinquishing the idea of a certain conquest 
for the present and shew yourself in Virginia, where I think your name 
and presence would be of infinite service.^ But, my dear Sir, I mention 
these things with the utmost deference to your own judgement and feel- 
ings which I am sure are equally touched with my own for the distress 
of numbers in Virginia and as prompt to relieve them as any person on 
earth, and I am satisfied will do so as far as in your power consistent 
with the general welfare. 

We have before us a proposition for sending on an aid of militia from 
this State and Maryland, but of all assistances these are the worst and 
would avoid them if there was a prospect of more effectual support.^ 
Supplies of arms are gone on and getting ready to go on, but these have 
been greatly delayed for want of money 

2 A letter from Lafayette, dated May 24, had been received by Congress May 30. 
A letter of the same date to Washington is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 320. 

■* In his letter to Washington Maj' 16 (no. in. ante) Jones appears to broach the 
suggestion that Washington go to Virginia. Still earlier Lafayette, in a letter of May 4 
(Letters to Washington, III. 303), had spoken of it as a possibility, while in a letter of 
June 3 (Writings of Washington, ed. Sparks, VIII. 86 n.) he reiterates the idea more 
defmitely as a wish. In his reply to Jones June 7 (Washington Papers, draft) Washington 
points out the impracticability of his adopting the suggestion. Governor Jefferson had 
likewise, in a letter of May 28 (Writings, III. 40; Official Letters, II. 524), earnestly 
pressed it upon him, as " it is evident from the universal Voice that the presence of their 
beloved Countryman .... would restore full Confidence of Salvation ". Washington's 
reply, June 8 (Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 274, ed. Sparks, VIII. 71), was of like purport to 
his reply to Jones. See further no. 165, post. 

* The measure in agitation while Jones was writing was adopted later in the day. 



June, 1781 107 

137. The President of Congress to the Several States/ 

(Circular) Philadelphia June 2, 1781. 

Sir, 

My Letter of yesterday addressed to your Excellency and which ac- 
companies this, contains such important Intelligence, that Congress have 
thought it indispensible to communicate the same to the Legislatures of 
the several States through their respective Supreme Magistrates as soon 
as possible; at the same Time the Intelligence is of a Nature that ought 
to be kept secret as may be at present. I am therefore directed to request 
that effectual Measures be observed to prevent Copies or Extracts of the 
Letter of the ist Instant from being taken or published.^ 

138. The President of Congress to the States of Pennsylvania, 
Delaware, and Maryland/ 

,-,. Philada. June 2. 1781. 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 31st 
Ulto, earnestly recommending to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
immediately to raise and equip for the Field four Battallions of Infantry, 
a Company of Artillery and a Corps of Horse. By the same Act Delaware 
and Maryland are also requested immediately to raise and equip for the 
Field a Number of Troops. 

Since passing this Act, Intelligence received of the Progress of the 
Enemy in Virginia, and the distressed Situation of a Sister State, the 
great Inferiority of our Continental Troops in Virginia under the Com- 
mand of the Marquis de la Fayette, render the Reinforcements requested 
more pressing and necessary,^ and require the greatest Exertions to hasten 
them forward. It is earnestly wished and hoped, under present Circum- 
stances, Volunteers will offer themselves without the least Delay, and 
join our Troops in such Numbers as immediately to check the Progress 
of the Enemy, and effectually repel them in due Time.^ 

139. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 
<^. Philadelphia June 2, 1781. 

By the enclosed Order of Congress of the 29th Ulto, I am directed to 
lay before your Excellency the Letter of the 9th Ulto signed A. Fowler 
etc. with the other Papers referred to, which are herewith enclosed 

[137]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Mass. Arch., CCIII. 296; Md. Hist. Soc, Red 
Book, VIII. 19; Arch, oj Md., XLVII. 267; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 

P- 4- 

- The circular letter to the states June I is in the Journals. That addressed to the 
governor of Maryland is in Arch, oj Md., XLV. 264 ; that to Governor Jefferson is in 
Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 723. 

[138]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 5 (addressed to President 
Reed of Pennsylvania) ; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 20; Arch, oj Md., XLVII. 267. 

2 The words " and necessary " are not in the Maryland text. In place of the word 
" Exertions ", in the same sentence, that text has " Expedition ". 

3 See nos. 140-146, post. Following the letter in the Letter-Book is the following 
note : " N. B. A Letter of the same Tenor of the above to the States of Delaware and 
Maryland, requesting them to raise and equip a certain Number of Troops mentioned 
in the Act of the 31st of May." 

[139]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 6. 



108 Continental Congress 

Col. Broadhead is now in this City. The Complaints of the Inhabitants 
in the Vicinity of Pittsburgh respecting his Conduct are very great, and 
his with Respect to them are not small. It seems necessary that due En- 
quiry be speedily made respecting those Matters and in such Manner as 
that Justice may be done.' 

140. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia June 3, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's Letter of the 27th Ulto. hath been duly received, 
previous thereto Congress had adopted the Resolution of the 31st Ulto, 
recommending to the States of Pennsylvania Maryland and Delaware 
respectively to raise and equip a Number of Troops. The more immediate 
Object Congress had in View from this Resolution (Copy of which is 
enclosed) was to give speedy Assistance to those Parts of Virginia at 
present invaded, or exposed to Invasion by the Enemy, but the Troops 
are to be wholly subject to your Direction." .... 

141. The President of Congress to Na.thanael Greene.^ 

Philada. June 3, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have herewith enclosed for your Information, the Copy of an Act of 
Congress of the 31st Ulto, recommending to the States of Pennsylvania 
Delaware and Maryland, immediately to raise and equip a Number of 
Troops ^ 

I am also to inform you we have received authentic Advice that the 
Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany have offered their Mediation 
between the Belligerent Powers, which was embraced with apparent 
Eagerness on the Part of Great Britain, and will probably be accepted 
on the Part of France and Spain, and we are called upon by our Ally to 
prepare for Negotiation as soon as possible. 

This important Intelligence we have communicated to the several Gover- 
nors, with Caution that it be not disclosed at present, and a most earnest 
Recommendation that the States make the most vigorous Exertions at 
this critical Juncture, to drive the Enemy from all their interior Posts, 
and, if possible, to expel them from these States.* .... 

2 See no. 69, ante, and the Journals, May 29. Enclosures, besides the letter oi 
Alexander Fowler, May 9, were: a petition of Pittsburgh inhabitants to the president 
and council of Pennsylvania, dated April — , praying for the removal of Colonel Brodhead 
from the command at Fort Pitt ; another, for the removal of Brodhead and David I>uncan, 
assistant deputy quartermaster ; and an affidavit of David Tait concerning the conduct 
of Duncan. Other papers relating to these complaints were transmitted by the President 
June 6. Washington's reply June 7 to this letter of June 2 was read in Congress June 12, 
and another letter from him on the same subject, June 16, was read in Congress June 25. 
Brodhead replied to the charges against him in a letter to Congress Sept. 12, read Sept. 21. 
Action was taken upon it Sept. 25. See also Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 97, 141, 365, 379. 
[140]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 9. 

2 Washington's letter of May 27, which was read in Congress June i, is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), IX. 269, (ed. Sparks), VIIL 53. See no. 138, ante, and nos. 142, 143, 146, 
156, post. 

[141]! Library of Congress, President's Letter Book, p. 10. 

2 See nos. 137, 138, ante. 

8 See nos. 128, 130, ante. 



June, 1781 109 

142. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia June 3, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 28th Ulto., 
previous to which Congress had adopted the Measures contained in their 
Act of the 31st Ulto., Copy of which is enclosed, for sending Assistance 
to repel the Enemy in Virginia. No Means in the Power of Congress will 
be left unessayed to give you all necessary Aid. I am informed some Arms 
are now on the Way for Virginia, and the Board of War are still using 
their Endeavors, not without Prospect of Success, to procure more Arms 
to supply such Troops from Maryland and this State as may be raised 
and march to join the Marquis de la Fayette.^ 

Enclosed are Extracts of Intelligence from the West Indies which you 
may not have received.^ 

143. The Maryland Delegates to the President of the Senate 
and Speaker of the House of Delegates.^ 

Phila. June 3d, 1781. 
Gentlemen, 

We received at 10 oClock last night your favor of the ist Instant' 
previous to the receipt of it We had pressed Congress in the most earnest 
manner to succour the Southern States and were ability equal to inclination 
they would soon be relieved. The Treasury of the United States is totally 
exhausted, without the hope of its soon being replenished. 

Inclosed you have Resolution of Congress of the 31st of May which 
if it can be carried into execution will afford some relief. If we can upon 
our own personal Security borrow 800 or 1000 £ Specie (of which we 
have some prospect) we can in 5 or 6 days get 800, or 1000 Stand of 
Arms repaired which the board of War has promised to furnish for the 
use of our State. Three hundred Stand has lately been sent forward.* 

[142]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 8. 

- See nos. 138, 140, 143, ante, and nos. 144, 146, post. Jefferson's letter of May 28, 
read in Congress June 4, is in Official Letters, IL 524. A letter of the same date, and 
partly of the same tenor, to Washington is ibid., and in Jefferson's Writings, 111. 41. See 
no. 136, ante. 

3 The intelligence from the West Indies was an extract of a letter of May 3 and 8, 
relating circumstantially the arrival of the French fleet, the return of Comte de Grasse 
from pursuit of the enemy, etc. See no. 147, post. 

[143]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 86 (in the writing of Jenifer and signed by him 
and by Carroll) ; Arch, of Md., XLVIL 270. 

2 The letter of June i here referred to, from George Plater, president of the Senate, 
and William Bruff, speaker of the House of Delegates, was read in Congress June 4. 
Following is the pertinent part of the letter, addressed to the delegates of Maryland: 
" The General Assembly and the Governor and Council have wrote you several Letters 
within these two Days, and requested you to inform Congress of the Movements of Lord 
Cornwallis, and to urge them in the most pressing manner to order all the Force, which 
can possibly be spared, to march immediately to the assistance of the Marquis de La Fayette. 
.... We wish you would communicate the Intelligence you receive to his Excellency 
Genl. Washington " (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 70, f. 473 ; copy in the Washington Papers). 
A letter of May 30 from the governor to the delegates is in Arch, of Md., XLV. 450; one 
of May 31 is ibid., p. 452. 

8 See nos. 138, 140, 142, ante, and no. 146, post. 



110 Continental Congress 

We shall transmit by an express going to the General this evening a 
Copy of your Letter and doubt not but he will do every thing in his power 
to afford the desired assistance if it be consistent with his General plan of 
Operations for the present Campaign which we presume he has before 
this time concerted with the Count de Rochambeau.* 



144. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 



D'r S'r, 



[June 3 ? 1781.] 



.... The delegates have done all they could to hasten Wayne as well 
as to forward other assistance to our State foreseeing what occasion you 
would have for aid but could only get the Pen[nsy]lvanians under March 
very lately ^ and a Resolution a few days past to send forward some 
Militia from this State and our Neighbour Maryland.* Your situation 
no doubt you have occasionally communicated to the Comr. in Chief and 
must refer you to him for such consolation as he has in prospect. The 
Delegates endeavours to second your efforts in that quarter have not been 
wanting and we have no doubt the General will do all in his Power. 

[P. S.] 7 Battalions of Milita-Infantry in the whole and i Do Horse 



145. Theodorick Bland to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia June 3d 1781. 
S'r, 

The letter from the delegation to Yr. Excellency will apprise you of 
the Situation of Public affairs, at this time, and of our endeavors to pro- 
mote every thing that can give energy to the operations of the Army 
in defence of our distressed Country." I shd not therefore have troubled 
Yr. Excellency with the perusal of this which relates to myself, did not 
my own peculiar Situation render it necessary and had I not reason to 
conjecture from the several late ineffectual applications I have been driven 
through dire necessity to make, that my letters may have miscarried. I can 

* June 1 1 the delegates transmitted to the president of the Senate and the speaker 
of the House of Delegates Washington's reply, which they had received "last night" 
{Arch, of Md., XLVII. 282). See no. 153, note 3, post. 

[14,4]! Copied from the original (in the writing of Joseph Jones and signed by him and 
by Bland), then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

2 This is doubtless the delegation letter mentioned by Bland June 3 (no. 145, post). 

3 See no. 120, ante. 

* See the Journals, May 31, June 12; cf. nos. 138, 140-142, ante. 
[145]' Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Vo. State Papers, IL 140. 

^ The letter from the delegates to which Bland refers is doubtless no. 144, ante. 
For the action taken for the relief of Virginia see nos. 138, 140-144, ante, and nos. 146, 
156, post. 



June, 1781 111 

hardly suppose them to have passed unnoticed. The long expected and long 
wishd for remittance which was to have come through the hands of Mr. 
Braxton has afforded us no relief, and has evaporated into smoke.^ .... 

146. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

^. Phila'a June 4th, 1781. 

The Express set out on his return to Annapolis before we had time to 
answer your Excellencys Letter of 30th Ulto. The Board of War had 
offered us for some days 1000 stand of Arms if we could furnish £1000 
Specie to pay for Bayr^netts and repairs; the apparent distress that our 
State was likely to be under for want of them, obliged us to offer our 
personal Security for the repayment of this Money in two Months in 
Specie, or Flour to the amount; and the board of War in consequence 
thereof immediately gave the necessary Orders. But upon Your Letters 
and one from the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of 
Delegates being laid before congress they were referred to the Board of 
War to take order thereon, and means furnished them for not only the 
necessary exj)ences of repairs, but also for Transportation, by which we 
are released from our engagement for the Specie or flour. The board of 
War has assured us that in 7 days time 1500 Stand of Arms shall be ready 
for our State and 2500 for the State of Virga. and other accoutrements. 
I am sure that every thing that can. will be done, and altho the funds 
of Congress have been totally exhausted, yet we have the pleasure to 
assure you that they have now a small stream that will set our wheels in 
motion.* .... 

[P. S. by Jenifer:] we do not know what has become of Mr. Paca. 
Since writing the above, Mr Carroll has informed me that he is about 
to set out to take the Country Air for two or three days, in his absence 
our State will not be represented. Be pleased to inform Mr. Hanson or 
Mr. Potts that one of them ought immediately to set out to Congress. 

147. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 
<-,. Philadelphia June 4: 1781. 

The inclosed papers will furnish you with the most important foreign 
intelligence we have lately received. And of what has been done by 
Congress in consequence thereof.* 

3 The remainder of the letter pertains to Bland's personal financial situation. On 
June 19 the following resolution was adopted by the Virginia House of Delegates, to which 
the Senate agreed June 20: 

" Resolved that the Governour with the Advice of Council be desired to use every 
means to Make remittances to our Delegates in Congress in discharge of their allowance, 
either by giving order for the purchasing and transmitting to them Tobacco or Hemp, or 
by pursuing such other Mode as to them shall appear most effectual" (Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers). 

[i46]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 109 (signed by Jenifer and Carroll). 

- See no. 143, note 2, cmte. 
[147]^ William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers (signed "By Order of the Com- 
mittee, John Mathews, Ch'rm'n"). 

2 One of the enclosures was doubtless the circular letter of June i (see no. 138, 
ante). A copy of that circular letter which had been sent to General Greene (it is now in 



112 Continental Congress 

We thought it necessary to give you this communication not knowing 
how far [it m]ay influence your future operations, [t]hat you might 
thereby be enabled to take your measures accordingly. 

We have received undoubted intelligence of the arrival of the french 
fleet in the West Indies, which makes their force at present in that quarter 
25 sail of the line — that of the British is said to be twenty one. The two 
fleets had a skirmish on the 29 of April, but nothing decisive happened. 
By letters of the 8th Ulto. from Martinique, we are informed that the 
french fleet sailed on the 7th with 7000 troops to attack St. Lucia, which 
place it was expected would be reduced in a few days.^ 

We suppose the Commander in Chief has of course communicated to 
you his plan of operations for the campaign, particularly the blow medi- 
tated against New York. It is therefore unnecessary for us to say any- 
thing further on that subject. 

P. S. The inclosed papers are for your [own] * private information, and 
must not on any account be communicated to any other person. Pray 
inform us particularly whether this reaches you in safety. 

148. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to George Weedon.^ 

Philadelphia June 5, 1781. 
Dear General, 

You will perceive by the papers, that the Belligerent powers under the 
Mediation of the Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany are about 
holding a Congress, and I fear that our Interests will not be so immediately 
attended to as we might wish: however, I think France must procure 
us tolerable terms, or She cannot expect to keep us long in her interest, 
therefore I trust more to her policy than her Justice, She is powerful 
in the W^est Indias, and from present appearances could do everything 
with apparent success, but that of taking Castles, and this She is attempt- 
ing — strange? infatuation.^ .... 

I wish our State had delayed the Selling of British property a little 
longer, it would perhaps have been to her advantage to have done so; 
I do not care to enter into particular reasonings at this time on the Sub- 
ject, because it may be thought that I am influenced by former prejudices 
and that wiser heads have determined otherwise; but rest assured that I 
have greater reason to be of this opinion now than I ever had. 

the Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc., portfolio 103) bears an endorsement: " From 
Mr. Mathews June 4th 1781 ", and below the letter is the following note : 

" The foregoing is a copy of a circular letter sent to the executives of the respective 
states. It may be proper to note that change of circumstances in Europe has altered the 
plan of sending us the second division as was at first proposed, but the squadron at Rhode 
Island is to be reinforced so as to be able to put to sea with confidence. Wm. Sharpe." 

3 See no. 141, ante. 

* Some such word has been obliterated by a small mutilation of the manuscript. 
(148]! Am. Phil. Soc., Weedon Papers, vol. 107. For another letter of Jenifer of June 5 
see no. 93, and note i, ante. 

2 Cf. nos. 128, 130, ante, 161, 201, post. 



June, 178 1 113 

149. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada. June 5, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I do myself the honour to enclose you the papers which will give you 
the news of the day. Some part of it looks well. But the Brittish gain 
upon us in Virginia. Pensylvania, Maryland and Delaware militia are 
raising (too slow) to meet them.^ The eastern Post not arrived makes us 
apprehensive for its safety,' Genl. Sullivan is well, with whom I am very 
intimate. Please to let me hear from you especially on the subject of 
supporting your Delegates.* 

150. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia 8th June 1781. 
Sir, 

I have expected for some Time since, the Determination of the State, 
respecting their Delegation ; but remaining uncertain, patience has taken 
the place of Information, and personal Credit removed some of the In- 
conveniences of local Situation. I wish it was in my Power to give you 
a particular Account of our Affairs in the Southern States ; but we have 
no very late Intelligence from the Carolinas. A Report by a Flag from 
Charleston, has just come to us, that General Greene has gained very 
capital Advantages over Lord Rawden; but how extensive, Time must 
determine. Our finances assume a more favorable Aspect ; and I hope will 
soon be productive of salutary Events. The Enemy are in great Force in 
Virginia under Lord Cornwallis, and the Troops opposed to them very 
inferior in Numbers. That State Suffers much, and I am fully persuaded, 
will find Relief only in the Exertions of the eastern States. The present 
Campaign is pregnant with the most important Events; and it is in the 
Power of the States to render it glorious for America 

The Eastern Mail, which should have come to us on Monday last, has 
been intercepted on the West side of the Hudson, and carried into New 
York.^ Casualties of this kind, however disagreeable, are the natural 
Consequences of defensive War, when the resisting Army becomes too 
feeble to straiten the Enemy's Lines. I have wished, for a long time, that 
the Post Office was abolished, or at least suspended, as more injury results 
from it than Benefit. 

[149]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 127. 

2 See nos. 138, 140-146, ante. 

3 The eastern mail had actually been intercepted. See no. 150, post. 

* June 19 Livermore wrote to President Weare that he had drawn upon him for 

2665^ dollars in favor of Clement Biddle, who wanted his money in Boston. He could meet 

with no one who wanted money in Portsmouth (N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, IX. 139). 

[150]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780- 1781, p. 72; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 

Cong., p. 343. 

2 See no. 149, ante, and no. 151, post. Among the letters intercepted at this time 
were : Elbridge Gerry to James Lovell May 20 (see no. 242, note 2, post), Oliver Wolcott 
to Samuel Huntington May 26 (no. 125, ante), and John Morin Scott to Robert Morris 
May 3c. The letters of Gerry and Scott were published in the Royal Gazette of June 9, 
that of Wolcott June 13. 



!114 Continental Congress 

151. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, June 9th, 1781. 
Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to your Excellency by the last post; but, as 
my letter may have been intercepted, I beg leave to repeat the substance 
of it 

It mentioned that no credentials of my being elected a delegate had been 
received by me, from which I inferred that either Mr. Cornell or Mr. 
Mowry had set out for Congress, or that my credentials had gone to New 
York with the last eastern mail, which is supposed to have been intercepted 
by the enemy. The first I concluded was the case, because I could not 
conceive that it would be inconvenient for Mr. Mowry to come forward, 
and presumed that it might suit Gen. Varnum to continue here until Gen. 
Cornell had finished his visit to his family, and returned to Philadelphia ; 
and because I had been so long absent from home, and been so long con- 
fined to business, that the Assembly would imagine that not only my 
clothes, but my spirits would want repairs ; and that my family affairs 
would require my return.^ .... 

152. John Sullivan to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia June nth 1781. 
Dear General, 

My being on a Committee appointed to Confer with the Minister of 
France upon European affairs and to Draw up Instructions for our 
Minister appointed to Negotiate a peace has Deprived me untill now of 
the pleasure of Acknowledging the receipt of your Excellencys Letter of 
the 29th Ulto. or Rather the Duplicate.- .... 

I find by your Excellencys reasoning that the Plan I proposed is at 
present impracticable, I shall Therefore wave the Motion.^ I find also 
that the Reasons for Invading New York were Reasons of Necessity and 
was the only practicable attempt in our present Circumstances. I have 
however some Doubts Respecting the probability of Success. Your Excel- 
lency may rest assured that Congress will use Every Exertion to promote 
the Success of so important an object. 

[151]! Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 344. 

2 Ellery wrote to William Vernon of the navy board, June 5 : " We hoped to have 
heard some good tidings by the post of Capt. Barry ; but it seems that the Post-riders are 
so influenced by British Gold that they had rather go to New York, than pursue an honor- 
able route. In plain cnglish the last Eastern mail is gone thither ; all the secrets it con- 
tained along with it." R. I. Hist. Soc, Publications, VIII. 270. 
[152]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Washington's letter to Sullivan May 29 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VIII. 58) was 
intercepted by the enemy and published in the London Gasett^e July 14 (see Sparks, 
p. 60 n.). Sullivan remarks (in the omitted passage) that the capture of Washington's 
letter will probably be of no disadvantage to Americans or of advantage to the British. 
The conferences with the French minister and reports thereon continued almost without 
interval from May 22 to June 19. See nos. 119, 120, 122, antiC, and nos. 153, 157, 161, 166, 
168, post. 

" See no. 89, ante. 



June, 1781 116 

We have very favorable accounts from General Green which I Suppose 
will be Sent to your Excellency by this Express, We have not yet received 
any official Accounts yet I think it may be relied on that a Fleet from 
England Consisting of a 74, two frigates, Several Sloops of war and 
Eighty four Transports with 4000 Troops on board arrived in Chassapeak 
Last Thursday. This will make the Enemy 10 000 Strong in Virginia 
and Enable them to do much mischief to that State. 

153. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall.^ 

Phila. June 11, 1781. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I cannot think that France will agree to the Uti possidetis unless 
compelled to it by the Mediating powers. 

Yesterday Congress finished the important business occasioned by dis- 
patches from the Court of Versailles and to the wish of your Delegates — 
Great obstructions thrown in the way by Virg'a, Massachusets and Con- 
necticut especially the former, we were several times overthrown but 
regained our feet again. I cannot say I expect either peace or Truce soon, 
unless the French should be victorious at Sea. If the independence of the 
13 States be acknowledged, the Enemys Ministry or some of them I think 
will lose their heads, probably an Act of Parliament may be obtained be- 
fore a peace takes place to sanctify the measure." By the Generals Letter 
to your Delegates, which they have transmitted to the Genl. Assembly 
there appears to be a ray of hope ^ — Perhaps the Enemy may have occasion 
to look behind him. 

154. John Witherspoon, Speech in Congress on the 
Appointment of Plenipotentiaries.^ 

[June II ? 1781.] ' 
Mr. President, 

I am sorry to observe, that after going through the instructions to be 
given to our plenipotentiary or plenipotentiaries, we should have so warm 

[153]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, no. 70. 
2 See no. 152, note 2, ante. 

8 The letter of Washington here referred to, dated June 7, is in the Washington 
Papers. With the date June 11, it is printed in Arch, of Md., XLVII. 282 (see no. 143, 
note 4, ante). It is concerned with equipment of troops, etc. See Washington to Governor 
Lee June 7 {Arch, of Md.. XLVII. 275), and the council's reply June 29 (ibid., XLV. 491). 
This business was presumed to have been finished on Saturday, June 9, but the committee, 
having communicated with the French minister, returned to the subject on Monday, 
June II, with suggestions of amendments. This letter may therefore have been written 
on Sunday, June 10, or on Tuesday, June 12. 

[154]^ Works of John Witherspoon (Edinburgh, 1815), IX. 142. 

2 That this speech was delivered either June 9 or 1 1 is determined by the references 
in the first paragraph, with the probabilities in favor of the latter date. The instructions 
to the minister plenipotentiary for negotiating a peace had been finished June 11. The 
question whether some persons should be joined with John Adams in the negotiation of 
the treaty of peace had been considered on the oth and decided in the negative. On the 
nth however it was reconsidered, and the result was a resolve to join two persons to 
Adams. Witherspoon's speech was probably made on that proposition. See nos. 157, 197, 
post; see also V. L. Collins, President Witherspoon, II. 58-62. 



116 Continental Congress 

a debate, and indeed seem to be so equally divided upon the question, 
whether there should be one or more to whom we will entrust the 
negociation ? 

As to the practice of European nations, I believe it is so various as not 
to afford any 'argument on one side or the other ; we may appoint one or 
more — there will be nothing singular or remarkable in it, so as to make 
our conduct look like ignorance in such matters. I am inclined to think, 
however, that negociations are generally conducted near to their conclu- 
sion, by one confidential person, though after the more important pre- 
liminaries are settled, more may be sometimes appointed, to give greater 
solemnity to the conclusion. We are therefore at liberty to determine 
ourselves wholly by the general reason and nature of the thing, and our 
own particular circumstances. 

As to the first of these, on the side of one person, it may be said, there 
will be more precision, more expedition, more uniformity, and more 
certainty of agreement with others, and consistency with himself. And 
the person whom we have employed, is a man of sound and clear under- 
standing, and has had the advantage of being a long time in Europe, 
and no doubt has been turning his thoughts, and making enquiries upon 
the subject ever since he went there ; so that we may suppose him pretty 
ripely advised. 

On the other side, it may be said, that, if alone, he might be at a loss, 
and that it would be of advantage to him to have the advice of others. 
It is even said, that there is a necessity of others better acquainted with 
parts of the country different from those with which he has been chiefly 
connected. As to council, that does not strike me much — perhaps there 
is greater safety in one than three; because he is fully responsible; whereas 
if a common council is taken, the blame is divided, and every one is less 
difficulted to justify his conduct in the issue. Besides, is there no danger 
to the cause itself, from an obstinate division of sentiments in those who 
are entrusted with the conduct of it ? This would expose us, in the opinion 
of those who observed it, and might perhaps give less respect to what each 
or all of them might say or do. 

As to the necessity of persons from different parts of the country, it 
is not easy to conceive what circumstances, in a negociation of this kind, 
can be peculiar to one part of the country more than another. If it were 
to make rules for the internal government, taxation, or commerce of the 
states, there would be some force in the remark ; but when it is only to 
make peace for the liberty and protection of all, there seems to be little 
weight in it. 

But now let us consider our particular circumstances. Mention has been 
made of the difference between Mr. Adams and the count de Vergennes. 
I have given particular attention to all that was said in his letter upon 
that subject, and all that has been said by the minister of France here; 
and there was not one hint given that could lead us to think it was their 
desire or expectation that he should be dismissed or superseded, or even 
bridled by the addition of others in the commission. We have fully com- 
plied with their desire upon this subject, in the instructions. There is the 
greatest reason to think that they are well satisfied upon it. But if we 



June, 1781 117 

should still go further, and either discharge him. or do what is in sub- 
stance the same, or might be supposed or conceived by him to be the same, 
this would rather be an act of too great obsequiousness, and but an ill 
example for the future conduct of our affairs. What we do now, will 
be often mentioned in after times; and if the like practice prevail, it will 
discourage public servants from fidelity, and lessen their dignity and 
firmness. There is also some reason to fear that there may not be the 
most perfect agreement among them; and if a jealousy in point of affec- 
tion between them should arise, it might still be more fatal than a difference 
in opinion. You may observe, that Dr. Franklin particularly mentions the 
impropriety of having more ministers than one at one court and in the 
same place. We have felt the bad consequences of that already in more 
instances than one. Congress were led into such steps as ended in our 
parting with Mr. Lee, chiefly by the argument of his being disagreeable 
to the French court; and though he was in my opinion one of the most 
able, faithful, and active servants we ever had, and certainly one of the 
most disinterested — he was but barely able to go off with a cold ceremonial 
adieu, that had very little in it of a grateful sense of his services, or cordial 
approbation. It is not pleasant to reflect, Mr. President, that so early in 
the history of this new state, persons in public employment should be so 
prone to enter into ambitious contention, and push one another into 
disgrace. 

I cannot help putting you in mind, upon this subject, of what has just 
now come to light. You are informed by the French court, in the most 
authentic manner, and indeed if I am not mistaken, it is by implication 
at least in the king's letter, that you had been ill served by the people you 
employed there, and cheated both in point of quality and price; and that 
on this account they intend to give directions on that subject themselves.' 
Now, Sir, perhaps it may be news to many members of this body, that 
these were the very contracts made by Mr. Dean, without the knowledge 
or consent of Mr. Lee, of which Mr. Lee loudly complained. These were 
the very servants whose accounts Mr. Lee objected to, and whose conduct 
he censured. But what did he get by it? Mr. Dean was supported by his 
venerable old friend, as he called him : Mr. Lee was complained of as 
jealous and troublesome, and disagreeable to the court of France; and 
not only opposed and slighted by many members of this house, but I may 
say attacked and persecuted in such a manner, that if he had not been 
supported with a generous frankness by others, might have ended in public 
infamy.* 

I have just further upon this subject to observe, that you very lately 
sent a new minister to the French court, Mr. Laurens — a measure much 
disapproved by many; and it was then foretold, it would be a disgraceful 
thing to Dr. Franklin.'^ Probably he has conceived it in that light ; and as 
he has no desire at all to return home, I am well convinced that this is 

3 The letter of the King of France (see no. 119, ante), together with sundry 
memorials of the French minister and a report of a committee upon a conference with 
the minister, is in the Journals, May 28. See also ibid., June i, 6-1 1. 

* Congress had but recently been engaged in settling Arthur Lee's accounts. 

•^ The reference is to the mission of John Laurens. 



118 Continental Congress 

the true cause of the desire expressed in his last letter to resign his 
commission. 

Some have mentioned the importance of the matter, and that the chance 
is greater against corruption, where three are to be taken off, than one. 
It is very true, that ceteris paribus, as is commonly said, there is a greater 
chance for one incorruptible person in three than in one: but there are 
single persons in whom I would confide as much as in ten. And besides, 
the thing may be taken the other way; for there is a greater chance of 
finding one corruptible person in three than in one; and in a commission 
of that nature, one traitor is able to do much mischief, though the others 
are perfectly upright. He, being admitted into the secret, may not only 
disclose measures, but perplex them, let the abilities of his colleagues be 
what they will. I have seen a man in Congress, who upon the supposition 
of his being a traitor, I am sure had address enough to draw many into 
his measures — many not contemptible in understanding, and sincerely at- 
tached to their country's cause. 

Before I conclude, I would say a little upon our circumstances in another 
respect. The first appearances we make upon the public stage, are of conse- 
quence. It is to be wished therefore, that the credit of the United States 
were consulted. If we were sure that our commissioners would be im- 
mediately admitted to public and coordinate session with the other pleni- 
potentiaries, perhaps a commission of three would be august and honour- 
able; but if, as I strongly suspect will be the case, they are not at first 
publicly admitted at all, but obliged to negociate through the plenipoten- 
tiaries of France — if, as it is not impossible, even in the settlement of the 
treaty, we are not considered as the formal contracting parties at all, but 
our interest attended to in articles as it were occasionally introduced — if 
this is done as a salvo to the honour of England, and to purchase for us 
advantages substantial and durable, a pompous commission to a number 
of delegates will rather lessen our dignity, and detract from our wisdom 
and caution. 

Upon the whole, Sir, I am of opinion, that it would be much better 
to assign to one the commission already given, with the instructions which 
have been cordially agreed upon, and seem to be in every respect agreeable 
to the desires of the court of France, and the opinion of the king's minister 
in this country. 

155, The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philada. June 12th, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... Had we experienced the most partial supply of Money, it would 
have been of Service. Perhaps the intended scheme of raising Money 
from Tobacco may prove as abortive to us as that of Flour. We have 
been reduced to the humiliating circumstance of attempting to borrow 
without success. If the Tobo. that Mr. Key is to transport, lies on 

[155P Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 72 (signed by Jenifer and Carroll) ; Arch, of Md., 
XLVII. 284. 



June, 1781 119 

Potomack, We cannot hope for any relief from it, as we shall be under 
the necessity of decamping before he can get it to this place.' 

Congress hitherto, has refused to allow the Shipping of Flour for the 
purpose of paying Debts contracted by our officers at New York. The 
Board of War have wrote to the General to inform them if Clinton will 
allow us to Ship Tobacco for that purpose. As soon as they receive an 
Answer we shall transmit to you the result.' 

P. S 

156. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia June the 13th 1781. 

.... This state, Delaware and Maryland, have been called on by 
congress, for Eight battallions of militia — the first for four, the second 
for one and the last for three batts. for the service in Virginia. I have my 
doubts whether the compliance will be as immediate or effectual, as we 
could wish.^ 

your letter to Congress was debated for two mornings, on various 
grounds. It produced a resolve to Genl. W. to take every immediate step 
to accelerate the court of inquiry — a letter yesterday from the Genl. takes 
notice of your's to him and of the resolve, and the satisfaction he would 
find in doing every thing in his power to have the matter efifected.' .... 

I think the expedition to Canada a measure necessary to be pursued, 
and must be adopted, none can look forward to the command in that de- 
partment with so much Justice as you.* .... 

157. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney.^ 

Philadelphia, June 14, 1781. 
Sir, 

You will find by the contents of this that it is a confidential letter, con- 
veying you very important and pleasing intelligence." .... Thus far 
in confidence, with this addition, that congress have appointed Dr. Frank- 
lin, J. Adams, J. Jay, H. Laurens and governor Jefferson, plenipotentiaries 

- See nos. 113, 129, 134, an\e, and no. 176, post. 

3 See no. 113, ante. Another letter of June 12, acknowledging the council's letter 
of June 2 (Arch, of Md., XLV. 457) and transmitting a resolution of the assembly re- 
specting the British prisoners in the state, is ibid., XLVIL 285. Touching the question of 
support the delegates write : "As it is intended we shall be supplied with money from the 
proceeds of some of the fiour directed to be sent to Delaware and some part of it must lay 
convenient for sale immediately, the difficulties we are under urge us to request you will 
favor us with an order on the person charged with the disposal of it, and we flatter our- 
selves this will be done by next Post, and to a sufficient amount to answer our purposes." 
[156]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIX. 

2 See the Journals, May 31, and nos. 138, 140-146, ante. 

8 See nos. 106 (note 2), 126, ante. Gates's letter here referred to was that of 
May 18, read in Congress the same day. 

* See nos. 89, 152, ante. 
[157]! Hezekiah Niles, Principles of the Revolution (ed. 1876), p. 254. 

2 The omitted passage relates to the letter from the King of France and the com- 
munication from the French minister. See the Journals, May 22 to June 19, passim ; also 
nos. 130 (note 2), 152 (note 2), ante, and no. 161, post. 



120 Continental Congress 

for settling the peace. They first agreed to appoint but one, and Adams 
was appointed before I came up ; they then agreed to add two more, then 
Jay was appointed — then Jefferson had five votes, FrankUn four, and 
Laurens one. The states voted the same way three times. Then I proposed 
to the members of Virginia and Pennsylvania that we should appoint 
them both, which being generally agreed to, this day was appointed for 
the purpose, and then Laurens was included — so the appointment now 
consists of five. New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland, 
were for Franklin, South Carolina for Laurens, and Massachusetts, Con- 
necticut, Jersey, Virginia and North Carolina for Jefferson, Rhode Island 
and New York unrepresented; Georgia absent. Mr. M'Kean wanted to 
alter in favor of Jefferson and leave Franklin out, which, upon Georgia's 
coming in, would have carried him; but I would not give up Franklin, 
and by the manner of proposing to appoint them both, got him appointed — 
though this was exceedingly against the grain of several members. He 
will now be put at the head of the commission. His abilities, character and 
influence are what will be of most use to us in Europe.' 

158. The President of Congress to the Several States,^ 

Circular Philadelphia June 15, 1781. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, a Resolve of Congress of the 
13th Instant.^ .... 

N. B. To Governor Trumbull's Letter was added the following 
Paragraph, 

I have also enclosed another Resolve of the same Date, by which your 
Excellency will be informed that on the Receipt of your Letter of the 17th 
of April which being referred to the Board of War for a Reconsideration 
of the Subject respecting the Invalids in the Connecticutt Line, and in the 
mean Time the Commander in Chief having called for the whole Corps of 
Invalids, to be stationed in the Garrison at West Point, it is determined 
to comply with the General's Requisition. 

159. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philada. June 15, 1781. 
Sir, 

Before this comes to Hand Your Excellency will have received my 
Letter of the 2d Instant with its Enclosures, by which you will be in- 

8 See the Journals, June 9, 11, 13, 14; cf. nos. 166, 168, 174, 188, 206, 241, 311, 
post, and particularly Rodney's remark respecting the election of the peace commissioners, 
in his Diary under July 12 (no. 197, post). 

[158]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 16; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 
210; Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Mass. Arch., CCIIL 324; Md. Hist. Soc, Red 
Book, V. 73. 

2 A resolve of June 12, respecting Maryland, was also transmitted June 15 (Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book, p. 18; Arch, of Md., XLVIL 293, under date of June 14). 
[159]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 16. 



June, 1 78 1 121 

formed that a Negotiation for Peace between the Belligerent Powers may 
probably take Place through the Mediation of the Empress of Russia and 
Emperor of Germany, in Consequence of which, Congress have thought 
proper to add four other Plenipotentiaries to the Honorable John Adams 
Esquire to assist in the expected Negotiation, of which you are elected 
one, as you will be informed by the enclosed Resolve, you will doubtless 
come this Way to embark, if Circumstances will admit of your under- 
taking the important Service. The Commissions will be prepared immedi- 
ately, as no Time should be lost. 

Your Appointment is ordered to be kept secret, that the Enemy may 
not get Intelligence of your Embarkation.^ 

160. John Witherspoon to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia June 15, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee of foreign Affairs lately wrote your Excellency on the 
subject of my Son, John Witherspoon who was Surgeon to the Letter of 
Marque De Graaff taken at St. Eustatius and sent to England as I have 
been informed in the Alcemetm Man of War requesting you to use your 
Endeavors to obtain his release upon Parole and his exchange as soon as 
possible. I beg leave further to trouble you with the enclosed Letter of 
Credit which I will be obliged to you if you will give to your Banker and 
desire him to establish a Credit for my Son in London and get him made 
acquainted with it wherever he may be confined. 

I believe your Grandson who is with you was some acquaintance of my 
Son. I would therefore beg of you to make my Compliments to him and 
recommend this Matter to his Care." 

161. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney.^ 

Phila. June 15th 1781. 
Sir, 

Yesterday I wrote you respecting the Congress of Mediation but when 
I shall have an Opertunity by which I may safely trust the conveyance of 
such intelligence is uncertain. This important business has Chiefly taken 
up the time of Congress since I last came up and is now Completed. It 
was closed by the decision of an important Article in the instructions to 
Our Commissioners which requires them after having obtained an Inde- 
pendence in all things else to be Ultimately governed by the advice of the 
French Court or Minister. It was moved to reconsider this Clause and 
to strike it out as being too abject and Humiliating. It was argued some 

2 Jefferson was nominated for the peace mission June ii and elected June 14. 
President Huntington's letter, it would appear, was transmitted through Lafayette, and 
Jefferson's reply, declining the appointment, through the same means. See his letter to 
Lafayette Aug. 4, Writings, IIL 48; also nos. 263, 341, post. 

[i6o]i Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. XXIL, pt. I., no. 46, 

- See no. 103, ante. 
[ 161 ]i Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 



122 Continental Congress 

hours and at last rejected so that the Clause stands and the French Court 
is thereby in possession of full and sufficient power to make a peace,^ for 
there is not the least doubt but the mediating powers will readily consent 
to our Independance provided they may make it as simple as possible 
and it will be ever the Interest of France that they should do this least we 
should at a future day form an Alliance with great Brittain. I was against 
this Clause because I think it must convince even the French Court that 
we are reduced to a weak and abject state and that we have lost all that 
spirit and dignity which once appeared in the proceedings of Congress. 



[P. S.] i8th. 



162. The President of Congress to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philada. June 19, 1781. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed, a Letter addressed to his most 
Christian Majesty, with a Copy of the same for your Information; also 
a Commission constituting yourself with the four other Gentlemen therein 
named our Ministers for negotiating Peace, also another Commission and 
Duplicate authorizing the same Ministers to accept of the Mediation of 
the Emperor of Germany and Empress of Russia, in one of which the 
Emperor is first named and in the other the Empress, to be made Use 
of as Circumstances shall render it expedient 

I have also herewith enclosed, Instructions (in Cyphers) for your Gov- 
ernment, in Addition to those formerly given Mr. Adams for negotiating 
Peace, A Letter in Answer to yours of the 12th of March will also ac- 
company this. 

You will please to communicate immediately to Mr. Adams and Mr. 
Jay the Receipt of these important Dispatches 

Mr. Secretary Thomson desires you would be so good as to send him 
the Machine with proper Directions to be used, for striking Copies of 
Letters as mentioned in yours of the 12th of March. ^ 

For Want of Time myself I must refer you to Mr. Lovell's Dispatches 
for American Intelligence in general. 

2 See the Jourtuils, June 15; also nos. 120, 130, 152, 157, ante. 166, 174, 206, 241, 
311, 401, 585, post. A letter from Arthur Lee to James Warren June 15, discussing recent 
proceedings, particularly the attitude of the committee of Congress respecting his accounts, 
the secretaryship of foreign afifairs, to which he had been in nomination, the peace settle- 
ment and the purposes of the French court, etc., is in IVarren- Adams Letters, II. 166. In a 
letter to Warren July 27 {ibid., p. 169) he discusses the action of Congress in joining 
Franklin and others to Adams for the negotiation of the treaty of peace. 

[162]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 20; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin 
Papers, XXII. 52^; Works (ed. Sparks), IX. 46. (ed. Bigelow), VII. 236. 

2 The letter is in the Journals, June 19, and in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 511. 
Franklin replied, Sept. 13, " The copying machine for Mr. Secretary Thomson is in hand, 
and will soon be finished and sent to him ". Ibid., p. 710. 



June, 1781 123 

163. The Board of War, Proceedings.^ 

At a Board of War June 19th 1781. 
Present, Mr Peters Colo. Grayson 

The Board in obedience to the directions of Congress to report a plan 
of succession for the Hospital and Medical Departments of the Army 
beg leave to suggest the following arrangement 

That all present vacancies of hospital physicians and surgeoncies be 
filled up by the eldest hospital Surgeons and Mates. 

That in future the right of succession by Seniority take place from 
Regimental Surgeons to Hospital Physicians and Surgeons inclusive: 
excluding all such as shall on examination of the Director of the Hospitals 
and Chief Physician of the Army be certified to be disqualified for 
promotion. 

That the persons requisite to fill the higher grades in the Hospital and 
Medical Department be appointed from time to time by Congress according 
to merit and abilities. 

That the States appoint Regimental Surgeons to the Battalions of their 
respective Lines. 

That all Regimental Surgeons to Battalions or Corps not belonging to 
the line of any particular State be nominated by the Director of the 
Hospital and the chief Physician and Surgeon of the Army with the 
approbation of the Commander in Chief. ^ 

164. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 
<-.. Philadelphia June 20th: 1 78 1. 

Your Excellency will receive enclos'd a petition from Genl Bailey and 
others Inhabitants in the Northern Frontier on Connecticutt river ; which 
is referd to the Commander in Chief.'' 

Congress are anxious to obtain the release of the late President Laurens 
from his Confinement and for that purpose have passd a resolve directing 
our Minister at Versailles to oflfer Genl Burgoyne in exchange for him. 
the resolve passd in consequence of a report we receivd, that Genl Clinton 
has refused to Exchange Burgoyne 

This constrains me to trouble your Excellency once more on the Subject, 
and request you would inform me whether Genl Clinton hath refused to 
exchange Genl. Burgoyne, or whether the carrying this Resolve into 
Execution will embarrass any measures you may have in contemplation 
respecting a general exchange of prisoners 

This information is necessary before the orders for exchanging Presi- 
dent Laurens are transmitted to Europe.^ 

[163]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

^ These proposals were drawn up by the board of war in compliance with an order 
of Congress June i8. A report of the board June 11 contained some similar propositions, 
but they are marked as having been postponed. The board's propositions of June 19 appear 
to have been transmitted to Washington July 17, along with the proposed resolves of 
July 14. See no. 199, post. 

[164]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 22. 

2 See the Journals, June 16. 

3 See the Journals, June 14. On the same day on which the resolve authorizing the 
exchange of Burgoyne for Laurens was adopted Laurens was chosen one of the com- 



124 Continental Congress 

165. Joseph Jones to George Washington/ 

Dear S'r, 

I have your favour of the 7th instant which gives me entire satisfaction 
of the propriety of your remaining with the Northern Army and that 
it was out of your Power from the small army under your Command 
to afford any present succour to the southern States. The same Sentiment 
I find was entertained by Governor Jefferson to whom I presume you have 
written on the Subject but from the contents of a Letter I have just 
received (or rather the Delegates of Virga.) from R. H. Lee inclosing 
one to be forwarded to you I expect you will be further solicited on that 
head and as it may not be practicable for you speedily to give that Gentle- 
man an answer by safe conveyance from the present situation of the 
Country, I shall as soon as an opportunity offers write to him upon the 
subject.'' .... 

Could not Genl. Greene be well spared from the South to take the 
Command in Virga. The great scene of action is there, and as you cannot 
be present his Abilities and experience may be very useful excuse the 
haste of this Letter wch I have been obliged to write in Congress. 

Phila: 20th June 1781. 

166. James Lovell to John Adams.* 

Sir, 

France appears to be most perfectly satisfied with the [present mediators 
yet presses us] " for an Arrangement final of the most [moderate terms. 
Franklin Jay H Laurence and Jefferson are added to you].' You would 

missioners for negotiating peace. Cj. nos. 53, 54, 73, 157, ante, and no. 168, post. Wash- 
ington's reply to this letter, June 28, was read in Congress July 2. See further the Journals, 
Aug. 21, 22, Dec. 3. 

[165]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 80. 

2 See no. 136, note 3, ante. The letter from Richard Henry Lee to the delegates 
has not been found, but his letter to Washington June 12 and one to James Lovell of the 
same date are in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 233, 235. The letter to Washington is also 
in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 332. His definite suggestion that Washington 
be sent to Virginia with 2000 or 3000 troops, etc., is in the letter to Lovell. Washington, 
replying to Lee July 15 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VIII. 106), refers to the plan in veiled 
terms and declares that " there are insuperable obstacles to my removing from the 
immediate command of the auxiliary troops ". 

[i66]i Adams MSS., Boston. 

' The words in square brackets are written in cipher. For an explanation of the 
cipher used in this and others of Lovell's letters (nos. 174, 206, 311, 401, post) see this 
editor's note on " Ciphers of the Revolutionary Period ", in Am. Hist. Rev., XXII. 329. 
See also note 8, below. The key to the cipher used with Adams and those used for a 
limited period with Franklin, Jay, Laurens, and Palfrey, are found in Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 59, vol. I. Concerning the subject of mediation see no. 130, ante. With regard to 
conferences with the French minister see the Journals, May 22 to June 19; cf. no. 152 
(note 2), ante, and no. 168, post. 

3 See the Journals, June 11, 13, 14, and nos. 157, note 2, 161, ante, 206, 241, 391, 401, 
post. 



June, 1781 125 

be made very happy by such an Event being grounded on a Desire to 
alleviate the Distress of a great [discretion * but blush blush] America 
[consult and ultimately concur in every thing with] The Ministers of his 
most Christian Majesty, the Independence of the United States according 
to the Tenor of our alliance [kept sole ultimatum]. I might have men- 
tioned a Circumstance not very material in the present Turn of Affairs 
[all or less or one can conclude as plenipo]. It is a Satisfaction to me 
and others alike interested that your other [parchments are untouched]. 
I hope therefore that we may conclude our [haddock ^^ safe]. I presume 
you will be at very little Loss to come at the Clue of this Labyrinth. 
[Gravier ® now] persuaded of the absolute Necessity of the most cordial 
Intercourse between [him and you strongly pressed for orders of that 
kind] and Suppleness knew not whence to stop especially when under the 
Spur of [at least Marbois].' It is needless to turn Well diggers on this 
Occasion the whole is at the Superficies. I must officially convey to you 
some Papers. I shall use this same Cypher. I suspect that you did not 
before understand it from my not having said supped in Braintree. I 
guess I said New England.* 

The President has sent the Papers before referred to. I furnished the 
Instructions in a Cypher. If any Thing prevents your coming at the 
Purport Doctr. Franklin can certainly decypher his. I[t] was intended to 
send only one Set by one Vessel, but I think that would have added Some- 
thing to the List of Oddities in this Business, 

I do not despair of being able to write again by this Opportunity. 

The Franklin came into the River today. Letters from Mr. Dana are 
reed, to April 3d. Yr. last is Oct, 24." 

Affectly 
June 21, 81. J L 

167. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 
^jy War Office June 22d: I7«i. 

The Board have the Honor of transmitting you a Copy of a Letter 
from Genl. Greene, respecting the necessity of a Resolution of Congress, 

* Lovell probably means that Adams would be gratified if the purpose were to 
relieve him of the sole responsibility. 

* The allusion is to the fisheries. See especially the Journals for 1779, index. 
Fishing Rights. 

6 Gravier de Vergennes. See the report of the committee on the memorial of the 
minister of France (Journals, Alay 28), and no. 311, post. 

'' See the Journals, May 28, June i, 4-9, 11, 13, 15, 18, 19; cf. nos. 174, 241, 311, 
401, post. 

« Lovell's explanation of the key to the cipher was reiterated in detail on a sheet 
which accompanied his letter of July 21 (no. 206, post), and again in a letter of Nov. 30 
(Adams MSS.), in which he remarks: "You certainly can recollect the Name of that 
Family where you and I spent our last Evening with your Lady before we sat out on 
our Journey hither. Make regular Alphabets in number equal to the first Sixth Part of 
that Family Name", etc. The name was CRANCH, and the key was CR, which is 
one-third, not one-sixth, part of the name, Adams was not however very successful in 
deciphering Lovell's letters, and he had the same difficulty with some letters from Robert R, 
Livingston, secretary for foreign affairs, written in the same cipher. See Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., V, 73, 192, 459. 

9 Adams's letter of Oct. 24 is ibid., IV. T03. 
[167]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed, " Will'm Grayson Bv order 
of the Board"), 



126 Continental Congress 

declaring that all Prisoners of War who engage in the Enemy's Service, 
from whatever pretence shall be treated as Deserters, on which they re- 
quest you to favor them with your Sentiments.'* 

The Board are unhappy to inform you, that nothing is yet done in 
consequence of Genl. Knox's Letter: immediately on the receipt of it 
they made the necessary Estimates and Applications to Congress, for the 
following Sums ; to the Department of Milit'y Stores £3794 Specie, and 
for Transportation £43,747 Specie; but the Money is not yet granted, 
and nothing can be done without it: the Board have been informed 
that their Estimates were referred to a Committee who were directed 
to confer with Mr. Morris on the subject.* 

The Clothing ordered for the Detachment under the Command of the 
Marquis, mentioned in your Letter of the 8th of May, have long since 
arrived here; but notwithstanding the Board have been fully apprized 
of the necessities of the Troops, they have been hitherto unable to for- 
ward them, for want of the Money which they applied for on the 9th 
of May; they are, however, informed that this difficulty will be removed 
by the last of this Week.* .... 

168. Richard Howly to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia June the 22, 1781. 
.... We have appointed five commissioners to manage the business 
which had been entrusted heretofore to Mr. Adams — your father is one 
of the number. Doctor Franklin, Mr. Jay and Governor Jefferson are 
also joined in the commission. We have passed a resolve authorising 
our plenipotentiary to off^er Genl. Burgoine in exchange for your father 
and hope it will prove successful as his services will be much wanted 
should the mediating powers be in earnest to terminate the disputes among 
the beligerent powers.^ .... 

169. Samuel Johnston to Thomas Burke.'^ 

Philadelphia, June 23rd, 1781. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The Assembly " is now sitting at this place and it is said dis- 
cover a disposition to do great matters, but you know these people better 
than I do and can better Judge what is to be expected from them. You 
will before this reaches you have heard that a Negociation for peace is 
on foot in Europe under the Mediation of the Emperor and Empress- 
Queen of Russia, the Events of this Campaign will determine whether 
America is to reap any Advantages from this Measure. We have the 
most friendly and unequivocal Assurances from our Ally that our Interests 

2 Greene's letter, dated May 10, was read in Congress June 11. 
" See the Journals, June 28. 
* See the Journals, June 22. 
[i68]i Paris, Arch. Aff. fitr., Corr. Politique, fitats-Unis 17: 45. 

- Cf. nos. 157, 164, 166, ante. 

[169]! N, C. Hist. Comm., Burke Papers, 1774-1783; N. C. State Recs., XV. 491. 

- That is, the assembly of Pennsylvania. 



June, 178 1 127 

will be attended to and that he will make good on his part every thing 

that he has undertaken 

I have heard that our Assembly was to meet the 15th Instant and 
not doubting but the Delegates are by this time ready to set off for this 
place, I shall turn my face homeward as soon as compleated a little business 
of considerable importance to our State 

P. S. The Assembly adjourned yesterday after passing a Law for 
compleating their Quota of Troops which it is thought will be effectually 
executed. They have very judiciously put their funds under the direction 
of your friend R. Morris which will have a very happy effect on their 
Credit. I consider myself as particularly unfortunate in not having been 
able to cultivate an acquaintance with that Gentleman, owing partly to 
my indisposition and in some measure to my ignorance of the Etiquette 
of this place. There is no confirmation of the Report respecting the arrival 
of the Ship Fayette, has not yet taken place and I fear she is lost. 

June 2yth^ 

170. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia June 25th 1781. 
Deoflr Sir, 

The inclosed newspapers will give you the current news of this quarter. 
For other particulars I refer you to Govr. Rutledge who can say to you, 
all I can at this time, except such matters as I dare not communicate either 
to him or to you. 

I hope his presence will be productive of all the good consequences you 
expect. I am well persuaided many advantages will result from it, and 
if you can but be happy enough to maintain the ground you have with 
such infinite labour, and honor, gained from the enemy, that you will 
have the heart felt satisfaction of seeing your generous exertions crowned 
with as much success, as could possibly be expected, that is, order, and 
all the tranquillity that a state of war can admit of, restored to a grievously 
distressed country.^ 

171. The South Carolina Delegates to the Quartermaster- 
General (Timothy Pickering).^ 

Philadelphia June 25th 1781. 
Sir, 

The Delegates of South Carolina have received a letter from Mr. Dray- 
ton, who was appointed by Congress as D'y Q'r M'r G'l for the Southern 
Department in Novr. 1778. 

3 Presumably the letter was finished June 27. 
[ 1 70 p William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers (addressed, " Majr. Genl. Greene 
Commanding Officer Southern Army. Favoured by Govr. Rutledge"). 

- Thomas Rodney wrote June 23 to William Killen, summarizing the latest news 
from Virginia and the Carolinas, concluding with the remark, " The present time requires 
particular and extraordinary exertions to complete our Glorious Struggle for Liberty ". 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. 785, item 159, extract. 

[171]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS. (in the writing of Mathews and signed "Jno. 
Mathews, Ns. Eveleigh, Isaac Motte, Tho. Bee"). 



128 Continental Congress 

Mr. Drayton mentions the disagreeable situation in which he stands, 
by not having received any intimation of what has been done in the 
department since the new arrangement took place, particularly on what 
footing he is to be considered, or whether he is to be considered as still 
in the service or not. 

We should therefore be obliged to you Sir, to satisfy Mr. Drayton 
on this head, and if a new appointment is necessary, that you would be 
pleased to make it, if his character is such a one as you approve of. Mr. 
Drayton was at the beginning of this revolution a gentleman of inde- 
pendent fortune, and one of the first families in So. Carolina. He has 
served in this department with reputation, and is as well qualified as any 
man we know for a continuance in it. 

If the department he formerly held should be filled up before you receive 
this, we could wish him to be appointed for the State of So. Carolina. 
But we rather hope for his continuance in the first. ^ 

172. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States/ 
^^. Philadelphia June 26, 1781. 

Upon the completion of the Confederacy by the Accession of the State 
of Maryland the United States in Congress Assembled thought proper 
to revise the regulations respecting captures and for that purpose on the 
27th of March last passed an ordinance of which I have the honor of 
enclosing a copy, and conformable thereto on the 7th of April Ordained 
and established rules and instructions to be observed by the Captains or 
Commanders of private armed Vessels commissioned by letters of Marque 
or general reprisals 

This having occasioned a change in the commission etc. the board of 
Admiralty have not been able before this time to furnish this office with 
the new forms and hence has arisen the delay in supplying your state. 

P S There are several Vessels in Virginia which want commissions, 
the deranged state of aflfairs in that commonwealth having induced some 
of the owners and masters to apply to Congress it is Judged proper to 
refer them to you. 

C T. 

173. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 
^. War Office June 26, 1781. 

The Board beg Leave to trouble you with a Copy of a Motion respect- 
ing Vanherr's Corps which was referred to us by Congress." We have 

2 Stephen Drayton was elected deputy quartermaster-general for the Southern 
department Nov. 17, 1778. See Laurens to Drayton Nov. 21, 1778, in vol. III., p. 501. 
This letter is endorsed, " answd. July loth, 1781 ". 

[172]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. id; Mass. Arch., CCIII. 345; Mass. Hist. 
Soc, C 81 B (to New Hampshire) ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, 
f. 551 (draft) ; ibid., no. 18, p. 10 (letter-book copy). 

[173J1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed, " Richard Peters By order "). 

2 The motion referred to, which is found with the board of war's letter in the 

Washington Papers, is the following : " That [ ] Vanheer's Corps called the 



June, 1 78 1 129 

been informed that the principal Part of this Corps is made up of German 
Deserters and were doubtful about the Propriety of establishing them in 
the Line of the State as their Enlistments are contrary to the Resolves 
of Congress and evidently improper. Beside we conceived that the Corps 
was intended only to perform the Duty for which they were originally 
raized and adding them to the Pennsilvania Line would be immediately 
annexing them to the Southern Army as that Line by Resolution of 
Congress is to compose Part of that Army. This we did not choose to do 
without your Consent and Opinion upon the whole Matter 

174. James Lovell to Mrs. Abigail Adams.^ 

.... There have been some Proceedings nearly affecting Mr. A's 
public Character. Lest you should be uneasy at Hints catched here and 
there I think proper to tell you that a Change of Circumstances in Europe 
has made it necessary, according to the major Opinion, to (A) [be liberal 
in discretionary powers], and it hath been made part of the plan to (B) 
[colleague] the Business in Consequence. I do not think upon the Whole 
that the latter Circumstance will be the most unpleasing to our Friend; 
the real Truth being that (C) [our allies are to rule the roast], so that 
the Benefit of the latter Provision will be that the (D) [insignificance 
will be in shares]. This is my poor angry opinion of the Business.* 

y m o and h St J L. 
June 26, 1 78 1. 

Now Woman be secret. 

[P. S.] 

Marechausee Corps be considered as part of the quota of Troops to be furnished to the 
Army of the United States by the State of Pennsylvania." 

Concerning Capt, Bartholomew von Heer see Heitman, Hist. Reg. The organization of 
his marechaussee corps was begun in the autumn of 1777, and the question of its disposition 
had frequently arisen. On July 29, 1778, Congress authorized the attachment of the corps 
to the Pennsylvania quota on condition that Pennsylvania would pay the state bounty. 
This the Pennsylvania council declined to do (Apr. 24, 1779). After fruitless appeals to 
the Pennsylvania council von Heer memorialized Congress on the subject (Mar. 18, 1780), 
and on Apr. 15, 1780, wrote Washington asking that the corps be reformed as an inde- 
pendent troop of light cavalry, to be attached to the Pennsylvania quota. During the 
succeeding year there were frequent complaints, particularly arising from delay in paying 
his troops. On May 15, 1781, he wrote to the board of war setting forth the complaints 
of his men for want of pay, pointed out that the term of enlistment of his men was ap- 
proaching expiration, and asked for directions ; then, on May 25, he wrote to Washington 
enclosing papers relating to the history of his corps and requesting directions how to 
proceed. Washington replied June i, indicating the value he placed upon the corps, but 
pointing out the refusal of Pennsylvania to pay the bounty to his soldiers. The matter of 
pay was brought before Congress by the board of war June 18 (in a report dated 
June 14), and Congress granted three months' pay. The motion transmitted by the board 
is not recorded in the Journals, but it is probably the motion of the Pennsylvania delegates 
June 25. Washington replied to this letter from the board July 9. July 25 von Heer again 
wrote to Washington complaining that his men were not paid, and beseeching Washington's 
consideration. About the same time he seems to have preferred a petition to Congress. 
See the Journals, July 28 (erased entry). Similar problems respecting his corps arose 
again the following year. See Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 486, 505. 
[174]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 The words in square brackets are in cipher. See no. 166, note 2, ante. The allu- 
sions in the letter are to the appointment of Jay, Franklin, Laurens, and Jefferson as asso- 
ciates of John Adams in the negotiation of the peace treaty and to the discretionary powers 
in the instructions to those commissioners. See nos. 157, 161, 166, 168, ante, and nos. 206, 
241, 401, post. 



130 Continental Congress 

175. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia June 26th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I reed, yours of 28th May by yesterdays mail. This is the only letter 
I have reed, from you : and this I suppose has been detaind at Fishkill 
for want of a postrider as one of our postriders with his mail were taken 
and carried to York abt, begining of June.^ 

You have doubtless reed, sundry of my letters before this time inform- 
ing of my arrival etc. and of the bad state of the currency : Since which 
T have drawn on you in behalf of the state two small bills the first 1333/5 
doll's the second 266^3 dollers which I suppose will come to hand before 
this. 

If this meathod of supply be disagreable I beg some other may be 
pointed out, or that I may be informed of the pleasure of the Court. 

I have between 8 and 9 hundred dollers of the new emission dollers 
and several thousand of the old: but paper money is of no use. The 
court would be unwilling to have me put away the paper at 6 or 7 for one 
which they must redeem in so short a time. 

As to Vermont I am sorry to see the distressed situation we are in by 
the policy of a few. The affair might have been settled a year ago, upon 
the plan I proposed. But the rejecting that has irritated the people on the 
grants, on both sides the river, and given our enemies the advantages 
they now possess. We have no delegate from New York as yet and Con- 
gress has been very thin 'till very lately: as soon as any thing can be 
done I shall do the utmost to bring matters to a settlement : But which way 
it will be settled I am at a loss. Your letter will be of great use, I am 
perswaded, in exciting the attention of our friends in congress, I shall 
accordingly shew it to a number of them. 

They must see that Rome or Carthage must be demolished. I am very 
strongly impressed with an idea that this dispute will never be settled 
but by dividing the territory between N York and us, but I have no 
authority to act on this plan. Genl. Sullivan has expresst the same senti- 
ment to me lately. Should the whole be decreed to us they might be too 
powerfull under the influence of Mr. Allen to obey the decree: Should 
they be divided that part that would fall to us wd perhaps be easily 
reconciled.^ 

The Ship Franklin which arrived here from France last week had a very 
long passage consequently brought no news : 

You will observe the British and Tory news every where holds forth 
that America is to be excluded from the negotiations for peace : But de- 
pend on it the fact is otherwise. 

[175]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 36. 

2 See nos. 149, 150, ante. 

3 See nos. 186, 192, post. 



June. 1 78 1 131 

176. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

<-,. Phila. June 26th, 1781. 

We received your Excellencys Letter which you did us the honor to 
write the 226. Inst.' 

We are truely sensible of your Excellencys and the Councils inclination 
to Support us in this place. We have only to regret that the means in 
your power have not hitherto been adequate to the purpose; but if the 
Tobacco which you put under Mr. Keys direction, arrives safe, we shall 
be relieved from every difficulty wch we have for some time laboured 
under. 

We have not seen Mr. Mollohon, but have not the least doubt of his 
honoring Mr. Keys Order.^ .... 

177. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell.^ 

p. ^. . Philadelphlv, June 27th, 1781. 

.... I have been detained here longer than I expected from unavoid- 
able circumstances, which 1 shall have the pleasure of communicating when 
I can see you. I hope to leave this place some day next week, but as it will 
be necessary for me to take a pretty extensive circuit to avoid the enemy's 
horse, and the weather being too warm for me to make long days' journeys 
at this season, 1 cannot form to myself any judgment respecting the time 

1 shall arrive with you This will probably be a very important, 

though perhaps not a decisive campaign. I am not perfectly informed of 
the plan on which it will be conducted on our part, nor is it proper that 
I should communicate so much as 1 do know to paper. Should a few 
fortunate events cast up in our favor, 1 hope there will be no more of it 
after this summer — if otherwise, God knows where it will end, for 
America can never submit 

178. The President of Congress to the Quartermaster-General 

(Timothy Pickering).^ 

<-.. Philada. June 28, 1781. 

The enclosed Report from the Board of \\'ar of the 26th Instant, with 
Col. Miles's Letter and Estimate being laid before Congress, they have 
referred the same to your Consideration. - 

[176]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 105 (in the writing of Jenifer, signed by Jenifer, 
Carroll, and Potts) ; Arch, of Md.. XI.VII. 316. 
2 The Letter is ibid.. XLV. 483. 

^ See nos. 134, 146. 155, ante. no. 262, post. The delegates, writing again to Gov- 
ernor Lee. July 3 (by the hand of Carroll), remark: "We have not received any Money 
from Mr. Mullohan. Unless we are Supplied in a few days to answer the demand on us. 
our Situation will be extremely disagreable. We are sorry to trouble vou so often on this 
Subject." Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 104 ; Arch, of Md., XLVH. 336. 
[177]! McRee, Life of Iredell. 1. 521. 
[178]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 29. 

2 The report of the board of war is in the Journals, June 26. See also ibid., June 20. 
Pickering's reply, from " Camp at Phillipsburgh ", July 10. was read in Congress July 17. 
A further letter on the same subject, Aug. 12, was read in Congress Aug. 16. 



132 Continental Congress 

You will consider whether the public Service requires such large Maga- 
zines of Forage to be laid up in this City, ^'ou are doubtless sensible of 
the great Resort to this City and the Consumption of Forage on that 
Account if all Persons who desire and think they have some Claim can 
get their Horses kept at the public Stable. How far this Expence can be 
avoided consistent with the Good of the public Service you will judge, 
and I am satisfied you will adopt every Plan of oeconomy in your Power 
and transmit to Congress your Sentiments on this Subject as soon as 
may be. 

179. Samuel Huntington to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia July 2d, 1781. 
Sir, 

A disagreable report hath prevailed here that the prisoners lately taken 
at pensacola were to be sent to N. York. 

I have caused enquiry to be made on this Subject and the best account 
that can yet be obtain'd is from a Mr. Syms lately arriv'd from the Havan- 
nah. a [CopyJ of his Report taken by Air. Lewis of th[e] Admiralty 
herewith enclos'd I have thou[ght] proper to transmit to your Excellency 

I cannot however perswade myself that Governor Galvez who com- 
manded the Expedition, and hath manifested the most Friendly Senti- 
ments, and attachment for us, would admit of terms so apparently detri- 
mental to these States.^ 

180. John Sullivan to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia 2d July 1781. 
Dear General. 

Though I have nothing Important to write your Excellency at this 
moment I take the Liberty by his Excellency the Chevalier de La Luzerne 
to assure you of my earnest wishes for your Success against New York 
and that every effort of mine shall be employed while I remain in Con- 
gress to second your attempt and to fulfill (or even if possible to antici- 
pate) your wishes ; my time in Congress will soon expire and my Domestic 
Concerns forbid my suffering myself to be rechosen. of Course the 
Service I may render to your operations must be within a few weeks, in 

f 179]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

- This letter is signed by Huntington but not as President, neither is it recorded 
in the President's Letter-Book. The intelligence transmitted by Francis Lewis (accom- 
panying this letter in the Washington Papers) is as follows : 

" Mr. Syms in conversation with two British Captains at the Havanna was by them 
informed that the terms of capitulation for the surrender of Pensacola were : The Garrison 
to be sent to New York at the charge of his Catholick Majesty, and not to serve against 
Spain or its Allies, till exchanged. 

"A Spanish Officer present contradicted the assertion, whereupon one of the British 
proposed a wager of fifty Guineas that those were the terms, which the Spanish Officer 
declined. 

" Mr. Symes further informs that some transports with prisoners on board sailed for 
New York at the time he left the Havanna, and that both Officers and privates were to 
be sent to New York." Cf. nos. 205, 207-209, post. 

[ 1 80 p Library of Congress, Washington Papers (addressed, "His Excellency Gen- 
eral Washington Honored by his Excellency the Ministre of France"). 



July, 1781 133 

which time I shall be happy to employ ijiyself in that useful manner. 
I suppose that the Resolutions respecting the augmentations of the powers 
of a Court Martial have reached you The Report of the Committee em- 
powered the Court to Inflict five hundred Lashes But this was Rejected 
upon the principles Laid Down in the Levitical Law - Strongly urged 
by Roger Shearman Esqr and Co and though a Great Majority of Con- 
gress were for it the Question was Lost for want of the assent of Seven 
States : This relation will Convince you of the Incompetence of Some 
Members in the American Senate as well as of the Absurdity of Some 
parts of the Confederation.' .... 



181. Theodorick Bland to George Washington.^ 

Fairy Hill near the 

Falls of Skuilkyll 

July 2d 1 78 1. 
S'r, 

In my last I had the honor to inform Yr. Excell'y that your letter which 
came enclosed to me directed to the Govr. of Virginia was forwarded by 
express.* the departure of the Chev'r de La Luzerne for camp affords me 
this opportunity of acquainting your Excellency that your request re- 
specting the Rifflemen from this state has been this day enforced by a 
requisition of Congress, in the terms contained in your letter but not with- 
out some opposition from the delegates of this state, which excited no 
small surmize in me seeing the requisition was in every sense so necessary 
and proper, the Exertions of Rhode Island and some of the other States 
make a happy Contrast to this disposition. We have great reason to believe 
from a letter of Col : Cary ' Sp : of the Sen : of Virginia, that Ninety Six 
fell before General Greene the latter end of May 

2 " Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed." Deut. 25 : 3. 

' In a letter to Congress Feb. 3 (Writings, ed. Ford. IX. 126, ed. Sparks, VII. 39S) 
Washington had brought to the attention of Congress " the inconveniences arising from 
the want of a proper gradation of punishments in our military code ", and had remarked, 
" The highest corporal punishment we are allowed to give is an hundred lashes ; between 
that and death there are no degrees ". Accordingly, " Capital sentences on this account 
become more frequent in our service than in any other, so frequent as to render their 
execution in most cases inexpedient ; and it happens from this, that greater offences often 
escape punishment while lesser are commonly punished, which cannot but operate as an 
encouragement to the commission of the former ". 

This letter (read in Congress Feb. 9) was referred to a committee (Joseph Jones, 
McDougall, and Sullivan). The Journals record the presentation of the report under 
June 15, indicating at the same time that the report had been under consideration on the 
nth. On the i6th the amendment to the rules, to which Sullivan refers, was rejected. 
Who was Sherman's principal aid in urging adherence to the Levitical law does not 
appear. Sullivan was the only New Englander who voted in favor of the amendment. 
[ 181 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 There is a letter from Bland to Washington June 19 in the Washington Papers, 
but it is not the one here referred to. 

3 Col. Archibald Cary. See no. i8j, post. Washington's reply, July 8. is in the 
Virginia State Library. It is said to have been picked up in a field on the Bland place 
in April, 1829, near a barn in\which papers had been stored when the Bland mansion was 
destroyed by fire. It is printed in the Bland Papers, II. 72. 



184 Continental Congress 

182. James Mitchell Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene).* 

Philadelphia July 2d 178 1. 
Sir, 

.... His [Robert Morris's] ' personal Credit here, as well as in 
Europe, is very extensive, and no other Man could effect as much as 
Mr. Morris. We have already experienced the happy Consequences of 
his Appointment in a vast Retrenchment of Expenses. He is now taking 
effectual Measures for simplifying the various Departments, and calling 
to Account those who have basely wasted the public Funds. In Republics 
so delicately connected as those of the united states, Reformation of 
Abuses is difficult in the first Instance, and must be extremely gradual 
when we consider the total Derangement of our Finances, bordering al- 
most upon irretrievable Ruin by the progressive Operations of several 
Years mistaken Policy.^ .... 

.... I must now take the Liberty of subjoining, that from the Knowl- 
edge, Integrity and Credit of the Financier, we may expect the Most 
beneficial Events from his administration. But he must be supix)rted by 
the States. Time will gradually unfold the propriety of this Institution, and 
reestablish Respectability and Importance in the American Character. 

General Cornell arrived yesterday and delivered your Excellency's Letter 
to Congress, the contents of which will soon be acted upon, and Congress 
are disposed to treat them with the most honorable Regard.* I have not, 
as yet, heard from Mr. Mowrey, neither have I obtained an official Infor- 
mation from the State since last April. The amazing Depreciation of the 
Paper Currency, upon my arrival here, soon made it necessary to draw 
Support from my family; but absolute Necessity obliged me, some Time 
since, to draw upon the General Treasurer of the State for two hundred 
and sixty-six Dollars and two-thirds 

I hope the State will not continue long unrepresented. It is a very un- 
fortunate Situation. The unremitted Attention that has been necessary 
during my Residence here, to a multiplicity of perplexing Business, would 
render a Permission to return very agreeable: but the will of the State 
and a Consciousness of preferring the public Good to every other Con- 
sideration, will make me happy in every possible Situation. 

[i82]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 87; Staples, R. /. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 346. 

2 Varnum had been speaking of the engagements of the state of Pennsylvania with 
Robert Morris, whereby Morris had been put in charge of the state's finances. The ap- 
pointment next alluded to is that as superintendent of finance. 

' There follow some pertinent reflections upon the multiplied evils in the depart- 
ments and the possibility of reforms. See vol. V., no. 621, note 2, and nos. 14, 25, 46, 48, 
ante, no. 265, post. 

* See no. 72, ante. The letter from Governor Greene which Cornell delivered was 
that of June 7, read in Congress July 2. The committee's report upon it is in the Journals, 
July 7. See no. 189, post. 



July, 1781 135 

183. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

D'r S'r, 

Such has been the situation of Virginia for some time past we have 
but Httle and that very imperfect intelligence of the transactions there — 
this may have been the case with you and yesterdays Post being the only 
one for some weeks that brought us Letters I inclose one received from 
Col. Carey ^ for your perusal knowing that your acquaintance with that 
Gentleman will readily account for his prolixity and some inaccuracies. 

Col. Temple ^ who arrived here a few days ago to forward M[oyla]ns 
Dragoons and which he expected to meet on the road shewed me a Letter 
dated the 21st ult. from the Marquis pressing him to use all possible 
dispatch to join him with that Corps of Horse — that the Enemy had left 
Richmond and were m[oving] down for Williamsburg, it is many weeks 
since this state was requested to equip this Cavalry and send them to the 
Marquis's Army and we have been amused week after week that at least 
sixty of them were ready to march and sometimes told they were marched 
but such has been the supineness of this assembly they are not yet equiped 
and must be sent to Virga. to be mounted if money can be procured to 
pay them part of what is due them for back pay. The militia called for 
to go to the southward will not be raised, and difficulties have been started 
to the 300 particular militia you requested but I am in hopes they will be 
furnished. I will pardon all this if they fill up their continental line w'ch 
they say is their design, in the meantime they escape sending Militia either 
South or North unless the 300 you asked for are supplied.* Our affairs 
have taken a most favourable turn to the South and I hope the Spirit of 
the people in that quarter is now so much roused that they will not be 
again reduced to the distressed state they were lately in. their present 
resentm't is high, and though partly ravaged the Country yet abounds 
with resources which when properly applied will make them formidable, 
could the Enemy but get a check by water in Virga. in that State every 
thing wo'd soon be restored and their insolence as much humbled as lately 
it has been insulting. 

When you have perused Col. Careys history you may commit it to the 
flames. 

Phila :3d July 1 78 1 

184. The Board of War, Proceedings.^ 

At a Board of War July 3rd, 1781. 
Present, Mr. Peters, Colo. Grayson, Genl. Cornell 

Congress having directed this Board to take Order for the furnishing 
the Table of the Commander in Chief ; 

[183]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 84. 

~ See no. 181, ante. 

3 Lieut.-Col. Benjamin Temple. 

* See the Journals, May 31, June 12, July 2; also Pa. Arch., first sen, IX. 141, 195, 
197, 207, 255 ; cf. no. 180, ante. 

[184]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



186 Continental Congress 

Agreed, 

That there be a proper Person appointed to act in the Character of 
Steward to the Commander in Chief, to be responsible for all Monies 
furnished to procure Supplies for the Table of the Commander in Chief 

That the Accounts of the said Steward be settled Monthy by the Audi- 
tors of the Army. 

That the Superintendant of Finance be requested to supply Monies from 
Time to Time on the Application of the sd. Steward and reasonable Esti- 
mates made for the Purposes aforesaid 

That his Excellency the Commander in Chief be requested to Appoint 
a suitable Person to act as Steward and fix his Pay; informing the Board 
of the Person appointed and the Salary or Wages agreed on. 

That until the forementioned Measures can take Effect it will be 
necessary to furnish an immediate supply of Articles for the Table of the 
Commander in Chief, wherefore 

Ordered That the Commissary General of Purchases be directed to 
make and lay before this Board, an Estimate of Articles, necessary for two 
Months supply (Wine excepted) and their Value; that the same may be 
transmitted to the Superintendant of Finance; and that he be requested 
to advance the necessary Sums to the said Commissary General, who is 
hereby directed to purchase and send the Articles contained in said Esti- 
mate, and approved by this Board, to Head Quarters of the Main Army 
forthwith. 

Extract from the Minutes ^ 

Jos: Carleton Secy. 

2 The order of Congress to the board of war was July 2. The board's minute 
of proceedings was transmitted July 5 to Washington, who replied July 16, with regard 
to the choice of a steward. Cf. no. 219, post. July 14 the commissary-general, Ephraim 
Blaine, wrote to Washington : 

" Inclosed you have an Invoice of sundry Articles for the use of your Excellency's Table 
loaded in five Waggons and put under the particular Care of the Waggon Conductor. 
All the Stores are of the best quality, the Wine is properly cased and all the other 
Articles put up carefully — beg your Excellency to Order some person to examine and 
see that the Stores are properly deliver'd before the Waggon Master and his People are 
discharged. There is one Pipe of Wine and some other Articles which will be forwarded 
next Week — should have had the Table Linnen made up but not knowing the length of 
your Tables or Marquee thought it best to forward it and the Diaper for Toweling whole 
m Order that it may be made proper sizes. I wish the Stores safe and have the Honor 
to be with all due Respect," etc. Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

Following is the invoice : 
'Invoice of Sundries sent to Head Quarters for the use of His Excellency General Wash- 
ington's Table — Philadelphia 14th July 1781. 

6 Quarter Casks Madaira Wine, Contain'g 198 Gallons 

1 Ditto sweet Ditto from Mr. Morris 

2 Tierces Jamaica Spirit, 82 1.t^-> r-,n^„. 
2 Barrels Ditto Ditto; 61 1 143 Gallons 

I Ditto French Brandy, 34 Do. 

I Ditto Shrub, 30 Do. 

6 Barrels Hares Bottled Porter cont'g, 24 Doz. 
I Hhd ] 

1 Tierce > Morris's Do. Beer, 24 Do. 

2 Bbls. J 

2 Bbls. Containing35o lb. of (English) Cheese 

I Tierce contain'g 231 lb. 14 oz. Loaf Sugar, double refined 

I Box do. 375 lb. best Spanish Sugar 

I Bbl. do. 187 lb. of Coffee 



July, 1781 137 

185. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^. Philadelphia, July 3d, 1781. 

I shall have occasion for more money to enable me to continue here to 
the expiration of the term for which I was appointed. I was obliged to 
use a part of the £100 furnished me last May to provide some necessaries 
for my family and I have occasion for some clothing. Living here is very 
expensive, board is as high as ever, tho' the prices of provisions have fallen 
in the market. There was no money in the Treasury to pay for my 
services in the last circuit, and what was due for my past services in 
Congress I received a note for, payable after the expiration of the war. 

I must entreat your Excellency and the Hon'ble Council of Safety to 
order the Pay Table to draw on the Treasurer to furnish me with the 
sum of fifty pounds specie at least, (a greater sum would be more ac- 
ceptable) and send it by Jesse Brown the next time he comes to 
Philadelphia. 

186. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

^ <-,. Philadelphia July 3d 1 78 1. 

I shall just enclose you a paper, which will give you some very good 
news from the Southward. 

I say nothing of Vermont, about which nothing can be done for want 
of a delegation from New York. I long to be about it; and yet I am 
much at a loss what to do.* 

[P. S.] The Chevalier John Paul Jones is coming to Portsmo. to take 
command of the 74.' 

2 Casks Raisins 

I Small Box cont'g lo lb. of Mustard 

I Box of China contain'g 2 Doz. Coffee Cups with saucers, two Tea-Potts, a 
Cream Jugg and Six Bowls 

1 Barrel of Hams 170 lb. Nt. 

2 Box containing 12 Bottles Oyl 12 Bottles Olives and 4 Bottles of Kitchup 
6 Kegs Sturgeon 

♦ r 2 do. Pickled Oysters 
6 Doz. Knives and Forks 

i lb. Nutmegs \ lb. Cloves i lb. Cinnamon \ lb. Mace 
I ps. Diaper 35 Yards, Cost 40/per Yd. 
1 16 Yards Do. do. 8/ 

I 1 Table Cloth 

6 Yards Sheeting 
l 2 Bottles of Kitchup " 
" ♦ Note, these Articles together with the China are cont'd in a large Chest, also 
Mustard." 

[185]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., IH. 236. 
[i86]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 39. 

2 See no. 175, ante, and no. 192, post. 

* The 74-gun ship Atnerica. See the Journals. June 23. 26; cf. no. 197, post. On 
the same day (July 3) identical letters introducing John Paul Jones were addressed by 
Sullivan to President Weare (Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B) and to John Wendell of Ports- 
mouth (original in possession of Mrs. Barrett Wendell of Boston, copy in the New Hamp- 
shire Historical Society). 

13 



138 Continental Congress 

187. The President of Congress to Benjamin Franklin.' 

Philadelphia July 5, 1781. 
Sir, 

In my Letter of the 4th of January last I had the Honor to transmit 
to you Sir the Resolve of Congress of the 21st of December signifying 
their Desire that you should apply to the Court at which you reside to 
use Means for the Release and Exchange of the honorable Henry Laurens 
[Esquire], Copies of which are herewith enclosed 

I am now to transmit you the enclosed Resolve of the 14th Ulto. by 
which you are authorized and empowered to offer Lieut. General Burgoyne 
in Exchange for the honorable Mr. Laurens 

As the Honor and Interest of these states is concerned for the [Support 
and] Release of that Gentleman, your best Endeavors will not be wanting 
to accomplish the Desire of Congress on so important a Subject.' 

188. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Benjamin Franklin.' 

Philadelphia July 6th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I suppose the Special appointment of Col. Laurens to the Court 
of Verseilles was a measure that you could not have expected would have 
been adopted by Congress : Your having negotiated the business for which 
he was sent before his arrival, proves that his errand was unnecessary." 

Public bodies in all Countries, and more especially in this new World 
are too apt to take up, and determine hastily upon subjects of the greatest 
consequence. I was absent when that Gentleman was elected. And how- 
ever the Maggot may have bit on that occasion, 1 can assure you that 
Congress have the greatest reliance on your abilities, integrity, and address, 
in so much, that it is with pleasure that I can inform you in the late 
choice of Ministers to negotiate a peace, you were unanimously elected.^ 

189. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 8, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive enclosed, a Resolve of Congress of the 
7th Instant, together with the Extract of a Letter from Governor Greene 
of the 7th of June which is referred to the Commander in Chief, to take 
such Order by calling upon the four Eastern States for the Aid of Militia 
to defend Rhode Island as he shall think necessary 

This Reference is made on the Supposition that Governor Greene might 
probably be unacquainted at the Time his Letter was wrote, of the Meas- 

[187] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Franklin Papers, I. 257; Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, V. 27; 
Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 33. 

2 Cf. no. 157, antiC. The words in square brackets are not in the letter sent, but 
are in the letter-book copy. 

|i88]T^Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, V. 28 (duplicate). 

2 Concerning the mission of John Laurens see vol. V., no. 540, note 5 ; cf. no. 241, 
post. 

3 See the Journals, June 14, and nos. 157, 166, ante. 

[189]' Library of Congress, Washington Papers; President's Letter-Book, p. 35. 



July, 1781 139 

ures adopted by your Excellency for calling out the Militia as well for the 
Protection of Newport as also in Aid of your military Operations, which 
may be concerted in such Manner that further Assistance from the Militia 
for the Security of that State may be thought unnecessary, of which your 
Excellency can best determine and take Measures accordingly 
I have represented the Subject in this Light to Governor Greene." 

190. Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams/ 

Dear Sir, 

Since you left us we have been going on nearly in the old tract, tho' 
the General Assemblies of this State, Delaware and Maryland, by their 
late exertions, being at last thoroughly roused, have granted such effectual 
aids, as must enable us in a little time to hold up our heads again 

A new President of Congress is to be chosen to Morrow as Mr. Hunt- 
ington will not continue any longer : this honor is going a begging ; there 
is only one Gentleman, and he from the Southward, who seems willing 
to accept, but I question whether he will be elected.* There are some 
amongst us, who are so fond of having a great and powerful Man to look 
up to, that, tho' they may not like the name of King, seem anxious to 
confer kingly powers, under the titles of Dictator, Superintendant of 
Finance, or some such, but the majority do not yet appear to be so 
disposed.' .... 

Philadelphia July 8th, 1781. 

191. Samuel Huntington to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 10, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

My Health is so much impaired by long Confinement and Application 
as compels me to retire from Congress. 

I have the Pleasure to inform your Excellency they have elected his 
Excellency Thomas McKean Esqr. to be their President 

2 See the Journals, July ?, 7. A similar letter, containing this explanation of the 
action of Congress, was addressed to Governor Greene the same day ( President's Letter- 
Book, p. 36), Washington's reply, July 16, was read in Congress July 23. Governor 
Greene's letter of June 7 is in R. I. Recs., IX. 433. It is addressed to General Washington, 
but it is there noted that the same letter, mutatis mutandis, with a small additional para- 
graph, was addressed to Congress. 

[igol^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Hist. See. of Pa., McKean Papers, 
I. 53 (draft). 

2 See the Journals, July 6, 9, 10. Earlier in the year John Mathews of South Caro- 
lina, Joseph Jones of Virginia, and Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer of Maryland were spoken 
of as possible successors to President Huntington (see nos. 33, 116, ante). The gentleman 
from the southward who seemed willing to accept may have been Mathews. Inasmuch as 
Samuel Johnston declined the election it is not likely that McKean alluded to him. See 
nos. 191, 221, post. 

« Adams's reply to this letter, Aug. 29, is in Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 260. On 
the subject of these appointments he remarks: "I understand that G M, is appointed 
Deputy Financier, R R L, Secretary of foreign Affairs, and if Gl. S. is appointed to the 
War Department and Gl. M. to the Marine, there will be a compleat N Y Administration. 
It may be well to enquire, what Influence has brought this about, and whether so much 
Power vested in the Citizens of one State will excite the reasonable Jealousy of the rest." 
Cf. nos. 14, 112. ante. no. 265, post. 

[igip Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



140 Continental Congress 

It also gives me much Satisfaction on retiring, to see our public Affairs 
in many respects wear a more promising Aspect than heretofore. 

The Enemy at present in every Part of the United States seem to be 
reduced to a Situation merely on the defensive, and should the States 
improve the Opportunity with proper and vigorous Exertions, we have 
Reason to hope from the Smiles of Providence yet more favorable Events 

The Distresses we have suffered from the deranged State of our 
Finances begin to be relieved, and the Arrangements taken by the Appoint- 
ment of a Superintendant of Finance etc. and the Measures he is adopting 
give me great Encouragement on that most important Subject 

I am now to take Leave of your Excellency with Respect to my official 
Correspondence, but be assured Sir, my warmest Wishes still continue to 
attend you, that your military Operations may be prospered and crowned 
with the most desirable Event, a speedy and honorable Peace, and that 
you may experience many Days of Tranquility in the Enjoyment of the 
happy Fruits of your important and arduous Services in the Cause of 
your Country 

Whatever my future Situation in Life may be, I shall always love my 
Country. In her Happiness and Prosf>erity will consist my own personally. 

Should my State of Health permit me the Pleasure of waiting upon 
your Excellency (which a few Days Journey will determine) I shall cer- 
tainly improve the Opportunity on my return to Connecticut.^ 

I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect and Esteem 

Your most humble Servant 

Sam. Huntington 

192. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, July loth, 1781. 
Sir, 

Mr. Livermore and myself were honored with your Letter of the 20th 
June, with the Enclosures reed, by yesterday's Post, which were immedi- 
ately laid before Congress and refered to a Committee, with Directions 
to report as soon as possible.^ When the report is brought in and con- 
sidered, we shall give you official Information. I expect the Result will 
be a prohibition to the pretended State of Vermont exercising any Juris- 
diction East of the River, and an appointment of a Day for proceeding 
upon the Examination of the Dispute. This will end in the appointment 
of a Committee to Determine thereon. The Reason why this has not been 

2 The following circular letter was sent by Secretary Thomson, July 10, to the 
several state executives, General Washingfton, General Greene, and possibly others : 

"Sir I have the honor to inform you that the Hon'ble Samuel Huntington having 
informed the United States in Congress assembled that the State of his health would not 
permit him to continue longer in the exercise of the duties of President and requested 
leave of absence, Congress have this day proceeded to the Choice of a President and have 
elected the Hon'ble Thomas McKean." Library of Congress, Washington Papers; 
William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers, etc. 

[192]! N. H. State Papers, X. 402; Hist. Magazine, XXHI. 173; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., XXXV. 101. 

2 Weare's letter of June 20 is in N. H. State Papers, X. 401 ; Vt. Recs., H. 309. 



July, 1781 141 

sooner done is because there has not been a competent Congress since 
last fall, untill within a few weeks past : I am every day more and more 
convinced of the Danger and impolicy of suffering the Question of the 
Independence of Vermont to come upon the Tapis ; ^ . . . . 

193. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell/ 
Dear Sir Philadelphia July loth 1781. 

.... It was a Misfortune that I did not receive your Official Letter, 
respecting the Money etc. before I left Boston. The Letter has been before 
a Comm'e about Eight or Ten Days. A Report has been drawn up several 
Days — but the Person that draughted it was suddenly taken ill, and his 
life has been almost dispaired of, for two or three days. I was very de- 
sirous to have him present, he is sensible, and has considerable Influence, 
and appears to take up the Matter upon equitable Principles, with Respect 
to the old Money. As the Report now stands, every state is to be credited 
for all the old they can procure, previous to the first of November next, 
at 75 for I. This will afford our State Relief with Respect to the Sum 
it may have, over and above the Requisition of Congress. Mr. Houston, 
of new Jersey, the Gentleman I have Reference to above, says, that he is 
surprised, that our State should hesitate, as to Congress's crediting them 
for any over plus Sum, that they should collect — But you are very sensible 
that we did hesitate. If it should pass as it now stands (I cannot be 
assured that it will) It will not reach you so that the Genl. Court can act 
upon it before September; as I suppose they will adjourn to that Month.* 
.... It is publicly avowed that Congress cannot, that they have not the 
Power to draw Bills of Exchange to discharge the Interest of any of the 
new Money etc. — it will not he paid as the face of the Bill Specifies. It is 
hard telling you so. But so it will be, for all the old Members say it 
cannot be otherwise, this I am truly sensible will be attended with the 
most dangerous Consequences to our State, Congress being as well as- 
certained of this Fact 6 Months ago as they now are, from what I can 
learn; .... 

194. The President of Congress (Thomas McKean) to the 

Several States.^ 
( Circular. ) 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive inclosed an Act of Congress of this Day, 
respecting French Mariners, who may be employed in any of the armed 

' Sullivan proceeds to give at some length his reasons. See the Journals, July 9, 20, 
24, 28, 31 ; also vol. V., no. 635, and nos. 16, 24, 25, ante, 200, 201 (note 2), 214, 224, 225, 
228, 235-237, 239, post. 

[193JI N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The letter from a committee of the Massachusetts legislature, May 24, was laid 
before Congress June 27 and referred to a committee of which Osgood was a member. 
July 16 a letter from the governor of Massachusetts, dated June 18, was referred to the 
same committee. The committee's report, presented Aug. 7, was taken into consideration 
Aug. 23 and referred to the superintendent of finance. See no. 279, post. Houston, who 
is mentioned as seriously ill, was in Congress as late as June 29. 

[194]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 41; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers 
Coll., Distinguished Americans (to Governor Lee of Maryland) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
IX. 273. 



142 Continental Congress 

and other Vessels in the Service of these States, or the Citizens thereof. 
This Proceeding is so expHcit, the Thing desired so necessary, and the 
Fruits of its Success so interesting to the common Cause, that I rest 
assured nothing will be wanting on your I'art to promote so salutary a 
Purpose. 

Philadelphia, July 12, 1781. 

195. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, July 12th, 1781. 
Sir, 

We were honored with your Excellency's letter of the i8th of last 
month, and are well pleased with the measures taken by the Hon. General 
Assembly, therein mentioned. It is the wish of Congress, as well as of the 
people in general this way, to get rid of paper currency ; it greatly em- 
barasses our afifairs ; it is but little used here in any trade or dealing, and 
not at all in the market; the prices of many articles of country produce 
are near as low for hard money (as) they were before the war. The new 
continental and State bills are not better than five for one specie; the 
issuing them at that rate, if they are to be redeemed at par, must be a very 
great loss to the public. We are glad that the State we have the honor 
to represent has determined to issue no more bills of credit, and that those 
now outstanding are likely to be soon redeemed in a way that will do 
justice to the possessors and the public. 

.... No Journals of Congress have been printed since December for 
want of money to pay the expence. The regulation of the clothing depart- 
ment has been lately altered, and the several States excused from procuring 
any account of the United States after the first day of September next. 
We opposed the measure, being of opinion that the army will suffer for 
want of clothing, if not supplied by the particular States, also that many 
articles of clothing can be provided by the people easier than they can 
raise hard money to purchase them. We have the satisfaction to find that 
General Washington has the same apprehensions with us as to the first 
particular, which will probably induce Congress to reconsider it." 

The State of Massachusetts has applied to Congress for justice with 
respect to the old continental bills in that State, whose currency is now 
at an end ; the matter is under the consideration of a Committee.^ .... 

[195]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 240 (signed by Sherman and 
Ellsworth). 

^ See the Journals, June 18. A modification of the measure, proposed July 23, 
was defeated. 

^ See no. 193, ante, and no. 279, post. An omitted passage relates to the appoint- 
ment of Thomas Barclay as vice-consul to France in place of William Palfrey, who was 
supposed to have been lost at sea, and the appointment of Robert Smith as agent at 
Havana. With regard to Palfrey see vol. V., no. 546, note 3. The resolve to appoint a 
vice-consul to France was adopted June 21, and Thomas Barclay was chosen June 26. On 
the same day it was resolved to appoint an agent at Havana, and June 27 Robert Smith 
was chosen. 



July, 1781 143 

196. Samuel Osgood to Henry Gardner/ 

Philadelphia July 12th i/Sr. 
Sir, 

A convenient Opportunity offering to negociate a small Sum of hard 
Money, I have taken the Liberty to draw upon you for Twenty five pounds 
Ten Shillings in Favor of Mr. Allen. Whether the General Assembly 
have empowered you to answer the Draughts in hard Money I know not. 
But I flatter myself, they will do it, if they apprehend their Delegates 
cannot be otherwise supported ; At present I do not think we can subsist 
without hard Money. 

I hope it will be in your Power to obtain a Warrant for this Draught. 
If not, pray be so kind as to inform me, And what Way we may expect 
to be supported here . While here, my Dependance must be upon the State, 
and as I am pretty well acquainted with her Distresses I shall endeavor 
to make the Burthen as little as Decency will admit of. 

N. B. Mr. Partridge and myself have drawn upon you Jointly in Favor 
of Mr. Allen for one hundred and seventy hard Doll'rs which will be 
Eighty five Doll'rs for each of us. 



197. Thomas Rodney, Diary.^ 

[July ?] ^ 1 78 1 Philadelphia. 
In Congress. 

Particular Instances wherein the leading members and Congress fol- 
lowed my Counsels 

I produced a plan of finance which was approved — only necessaty would 
not or seemed not to admit our waiting the Effect, Therefore the Specie 
plan was adopted.^ 

The Inferior business of Congress was assigned to Several officers 
and rules Established for their Conduct — and officers or Ministers ap- 
pointed, this I urged immediately on going to Congress,* for I saw the 
members worn out by business that could be much better done by clerks, 
and a clamour constant round them because they could not do it fast 
Enough. 

[196]^ Mass. Arch., CCV. 620b. 

[197J1 Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

- There is nothing to indicate when these notes were written, but inasmuch as 
Rodney's last recorded attendance was July 12, they are placed at this point. 

8 Rodney was a member of the committee appointed May 8 " to devise further 
ways and means to defray the expences of the ensuing campaign ", etc., but what share he 
had in preparing the report which the committee offered May 14 is not evidenced by 
any record in the Journals. One proposition was rejected on the 14th, and on the 15th 
the report was recommitted. A revised report was brought in May 17, and on May 22, 
after further rejections and amendments, several propositions were adopted. This measure 
is doubtless what Rodney calls the " Specie plan ". It does not appear that Rodney was 
present at any time during the debates on the measure. The entry in the Journals May 22 
omits his name from the list of the committee. 
* See no. 68, ante. 



144 Continental Congress 

Being absent an order was made to remove all provisions etc. out of 
the Peninsula for fear of an exj)cdition of the Brittish there — this was 
absurd and I had it immediately altered.' 

When it was moved to order Washington and the army to Virginia 
I opposed it as being calculated to frustrate all his own plans — it was 
often moved but still rejected." 

I was agt. selling the Ship America and prevented it several times. ^ 

I prevailed in gitting five Comms. to make the peace, instead of three 
and thereby, got Doctr. Franklin and Mr. Laurence, appointed." 

I prevailed in gitting Mr. Morris financier, In gitting Mr. McKean 
President on Mr. Huntingdons going home." 

I got Mr. Geddess a Comm. in Treasury restored.^" 

I got Mr. Hodgedon apptd. in the room of Col. Flours etc." 

I got Doct. Tilton restored after he had been excluded by the medical 
committee." 

My Counsel prevailed in Committee of the States against adopting harsh 
measures agt. Vermont.^' 

In many other things my councel was given great attention to by leading 
members. 

But perhaps one of the most Important Matters my Counsel prevailed 
in while I was attending Congress in this year was the following which 
tho not done in Congress, but in a kind of private Conversation, yet was 
in some measure a Communication of sentiment between Congress and 

the army — wherein I may be considered as acting on the part of C s 

and Genl. G on the part of the A — y. 

^ Two such measures were adopted, one on Sunday, Apr. 8, the other Apr. 23. 
Neither measure appears to have been rescinded. See particularly no. 80, ante. 

" See nos. 136, 165, ante. No motions to order Washington to Virginia at this 
time are recorded in the Journals. 

7 Rodney was not a member of the committee that reported June 23 in favor of 
finishing and equipping the America. For a history of the ship see B. B. Crowninshield, in 
Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., vol. XXXVII. 

8 See nos. 68, 157, ante. 

9 Nothing has been found which serves to show the extent of Rodney's influence 
upon the determination in either instance. 

1° Nov. 22, 1780, William Geddes was elected paymaster-general, but on the 
following day the election was set aside on the ground that a complaint had been exhibited 
against the chamber of accounts of which Geddes had for some time been one of the com- 
missioners and that the determination with regard to that complaint had not yet been made. 
The complaint alluded to was doubtless that which grew out of the controversy over the 
settlement of the account of Francis Hopkinson for his " fancy work ". See vol. V., 
nos. 176, note 2, 298, note 4. However, on Jan. 11, 1781, Geddes was again nominated for 
the office of paymaster-general, but failed of election, the successful nominee being John 
Pierce (Jan. 17). Feb. 10 a committee to whom had been referred (Feb. 5) a letter from 
Geddes, dated Feb. 2, reported that his election had been set aside " upon reasons of 
expediency and propriety", and that reports circulated injurious to his character and 
reputation on that account were unfounded. The Journals do not record either his dis- 
charge or his restoration as a commissioner of the treasury. He appears to have been 
serving in that capacity when he obtained. Mar. 30, leave of absence for a few weeks. 
Jan. 28, 1782, he was elected one of the auditors of the treasury. 

11 Samuel Hodgdon was elected commissary-general of military stores July 11, 
1781, on the nomination of Richard Howly. 

12 The Journals contain no record of the action referred to in the case of Dr. James 
Tilton. 

18 Rodney probably means the committee of the whole, although he may mean the 
grand committee, the term applied to a committee consisting of one member from each of 
the states. The precise time to which he refers is uncertain. 



July, 1781 145 

The leading members of Congress and a Number of Officers of the 
Army dined at the House of Mr. Huntingdon President, a variety of 
Sentiment on the war etc. was talked over and after a while when Dinner 
was over and the several Tosts gone round, the rest one after another 
all went of and left Genl. G. and myself in conversation. We went over 
the whole Contest and war with Britton, and having concluded this part 
of the conversation turned our views to what was to be the situation of 
America after Peace, knowing that this was now solicited by G. Brittain 

It was agreed that the people would not be satisfied with their then form 
of government, That something would be necessary to be done. I then 
proposed the plan and Association of the Cincinnati as necessary to pre- 
serve the union and to Effect a reform in the Government. He asked what 
form would be best ? I answered that which would be most like the one 
we had been used to without being the same. 

He asked how we could form such an one? I answered let there be a 
Senate to represent the several states and a house of Commons or Deli- 
gates to represent the people. He asked how we should make a Chief 
Magistrate. I answered he must be Elective. He asked how he must be 
Elected. I answered by the Legislature or the people, but probably it 
would be best for the people to Elect him otherwise they might git jealous 
of him. He then asked how we should form the Interior Government. 
I answered this needed no direction for it Could not Easily be mistaken, 
for the System of Law itself would direct this. But I no doubt at the time 
and since have noted more particularly what passed on this occasion for 
what was then pland has been strictly fulfild and acted up to by America." 

198. The President of Congress (Thomas McKean) to 
George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

Your Excellency's favor of the 6th Instant to the late President was 
received and read in Congress." 

I have now the Honor to inclose you an Act of Congress of the nth 
respecting the Geographers of the L^nited States, and another of the 12th 
appointing Samuel Hodgdon Esquire Commissary General of military 
Stores. 

As I shall for some time hold a constant correspondence with your 
Excellency, a duty the most agreeable of any I have to perform in conse- 
quence of the Station now assigned me, it may not be improper to mention, 
that if I transmit to you the Acts or Resolves of the United States in 
Congress assembled without comment, I flatter myself it will not be 

1* The conversation to which Rodney refers probably took place about the end of 
April, 1781, when both Rodney and General Gates (who is evidently meant by " Genl. G ") 
were in Philadelphia. At this point Rodney has penned the following : " Note — Having 
wrote out the blank paper in a folio blue covered Quire of Paper beginning the last of April 
and Ending the last of May I comenced my Journal in this book there being part of it now 
blank — 1796." 

[198] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 43; 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, L 56 (draft). 

2 Washington's letter of July 6 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 295, ed. Sparks, VIIL 97) 
was read in Congress July 10. 



146 Continental Congress 

attributed to a want of proper attention to your Excellency or the business, 
but to my doubts of the propriety of doing- otherwise. 

Any intelligence which I may communicate respecting our Affairs 
abroad or at home, you will be pleased to consider as my private act. 
There is nothing of importance at present. We are blessed with a most 
plentiful harvest; in this State the corn is greater in Quantity and better 
in quality than in any year of the last twenty, and the country teems with 
fruit. The Legislatures in most of the States have imposed very consider- 
able taxes, tho' perhaps not quite equal to the exigencies of our aflPairs, 
yet they appear to be as heavy as the People can bear. The friends to our 
Independence rather increase than diminish, and appear to be as deter- 
mined to support it as at any period of the controversy. Public and private 
credit and confidence are restoring fast, and the trade and commerce of 
this city really flourish. In short our affairs wear a promising aspect. 

Philadelphia, July 14, 1781. 

199. The Board of War, Proceedings.^ 

At A Board of War July 14th 1781. 
Present, Mr. Peters, Col'l Grayson, Genl. Cornell 

The Board have considered the letter of the Director Genl. referred 
to them, desiring- that the vacancies in the Hospital Department may be 
filled up. 

Report the following resolve 

Resolved That a Board shall be held as often as the Commander in 
Chief shall direct to consist of the Director, the Chief Physician of the 
Army, or one Chief Physician of the Hospital and two Hospital Phy- 
sicians and Surgeons then present, of which a general officer shall be 
President and have a Vote when the Board are divided; whose Duty it 
shall be [to] examine all Persons whatsoever whether they be of the 
Hospital Department or whether they be Regimental Surgeons or Mates 
or those who have retired from the Army on half Pay, or of the Citizens 
at large who shall solicit Promotion in the Hospital Department, and to 
report their fitness or unfitness to Congress for the Post they require, and 
none shall be promoted to vacancies or receive any appointment in the 
said Department unless they shall be recommended by the said Board, 
and except when Congress shall on extraordinary Occasions think proper, 
specially to interfere : — Provided also that where the Merit of Applicants 
is equal, that Senerioty in that Instance shall prevail. 

Resolved That a Board shall beheld as often as the Commander in Chief 
shall direct, to consist of the Director, the Chief Physician of the Army or 
one Chief physician of the Hospital and two Hospital Physicians and 
Surgeons then present; of which a Field Officer shall be President, and 
have a Vote when the Board are divided ; whose duty it shall be to examine 
all Persons whatsoever applying for the Appointments of Mates in the 
Hospital Department, and report to Congress their fitness or unfitness for 
the Post they solicit; and none shall be appointed as Mates in the said 
Department, unless they shall be recommended by the said Board : — And 

[199]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



July, 1781 147 

it is farther Resolved, That when any Vacancies shall happen in the Hospi- 
tal Department, the Promotion shall go on by regular Progression, from 
Mates of the Hospital, to the highest Offices of the same; except when 
Congress shall think proper, for special Reasons, to interfere. 

No Surgeons and Mates of Regiments being of the Election of the 
particular States; Que[r]y " how can they be united to the Hospital De- 
partment ? ^ 

2(X). The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

A mail from Falmouth having been captured, sundry original letters 
have been sent to Congress, from which the following are extracts.- .... 

It further appears from these letters, that Arnold has received Bills of 
Exchange for five thousand pounds sterling on London, which have been 
paid and the money invested in the Stocks. This was probably the certain 
reward of his treasons, the rest may have been eventual. 

Congress are possessed of the originals from which the foregoing ex- 
tracts are taken.* 

Philadelphia, July 17th, 1781. 

2 These proposals of the board of war were transmitted to Washington July 17, 
with a request for his opinions on the subject. Washington replied Aug. 5. On Aug. 13 
the board wrote Washington that they were essaying a plan for the hospital department. 
A report dated Sept. 17 was brought in Sept. 20 and in the main adopted. On the follow- 
ing day (Sept. 21) there was a motion that the resolutions respecting the filling-up of 
vacancies in the general hospital be suspended until a report should be made upon a letter 
of that day from the superintendent of finance with regard to the hospital department ; 
but the motion failed. However, on Sept. 22 it was ordered " That no appointment be made 
of mates, to supply the places of those promoted in the general hospital by the resolution 
of the 20 until the farther order of Congress ". See no. 322, /yost. On Nov. 3 the cominittet 
on the letter of the superintendent of finance offered an elaborate report, including an 
" Ordinance for constituting and arranging the Hospital Department ". This ordinance had 
its first reading on Monday, Dec. 24, its second reading Dec. 26 and 28, and was referred 
to a new committee. The latter committee reported Jan. 3, 1782, adversely to a general 
ordinance, but offered some resolutions which were adopted. See further the Journals, 
June 10, July 23, 1782. 

[300] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

- The enclosures were extracts from the following letters, in the order here given : 
Lord George Germain to the commissioners for restoring peace (at New York), Mar. 7, 
1781 ; Germain to Clinton, Feb. 7, 1781 (relative to Vermont, etc.) ; Germain to Clinton, 
Mar. 7, 1781 (revolt of the Pennsylvania Line, etc.). Extracts of the letters to Clinton 
are in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), VIH. 519, 520. The letter of Feb. 7 (in so 
far as it pertains to Vermont) is in Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, IL 93, and Records of 
Governor and Council of Vermont, H. 311, 406. The letter to Clinton, Mar. 7, is in A''. C. 
State Recs., XVIL 990; another letter of the same date (respecting the recall of General 
Leslie from Virginia) is ibid., p. 991. These and a number of other letters from the 
captured mail were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, beginning July 21, and in the 
Pennsylvania Gazette, beginning July 25, prefaced with this statement : " The following 
are Copies of some of the Letters found in the Packet from England bound for New York, 
but taken on her passage and carried into France." Germain's letter of Feb. 7 was printed 
in the Packet of Aug. 4 and in the Gazette of Aug. 15. The original letters are in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 51, vol. II., ff. 201-213 ; official " Duplicates " and " Copies " of these and 
other letters are ibid., fi. 165-191, others in vol. L, ff. 780-825. See the Journals, .-Xug. i, 
and nos. 201, 207, 208, 214, post. 

8 That part of the letter which follows the extracts is in McKean's own hand. 
The letters which pertain to the money paid Arnold and its investment in England are 
from James Meyrick — one to Arnold, Jan. 30, 1781, and one to General Robertson, Feb. 7. 
They were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of July 2i and in the Pennsylvania Gazette 
of July 25. The letter to Arnold, marked " Duplicate " but signed by Meyrick, is in 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 51, vol. II., f. 165 ; that to General Robertson is ibid., vol. I., f. 781. 



148 Continental Congress 

201. John Sullivan to John Wendell/ 

Philadelphia July 17th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I am honored with your favor of the 3d Instant and shall pay particular 
attention to its Contents ; the affair of Vermont is now before Congress 
and I flatter myself proper measures will be adopted to punish the Defec- 
tion of the Towns East of Connecticut River : and also the unwarrantable 
usurpations of Vermont. I think Congress will fix a Day for determining 
the Claims of N : Hamps'r and New York. I Thank you for the Intelli- 
gence respecting the Spy. I believe that by that or some other Channel 
you will soon discover that the Leading men in Vermont if not a great 
majority of the Inhabitants are in the British Interest.^ 

I sincerely wish Mr. Morris had hard Cash Sufficient to pursue the Plan 
you propose but he has not Enough for that and for carrying on the 
present Campaign, which Last must be preferred to Every other Con- 
sideration. 

As to the proposed Congress of vienna we have every thing to hope but 
nothing to fear from that Quarter. Russia has already fixed two pre- 
liminary Articles, zns an absolute Recognition of the Independence of 
America : And the Restoration of Dutch property by the Court of 
London.^ .... 

I shall mention you to Mr. Morris and inform you orally of his reply. 
I Say orally because I mean to Leave this place in a few weeks. Mr. 
Livermore Sends his Compliments. 

[201]^ N. H. Hist. Soc. (copy) ; Hist. Magazine, XXIII. 173; Original in possession of 
Mrs. Barrett Wendell, Boston. 

2 Sullivan wrote to President Weare the same day : " The affair of Vermont is 
not yet decided. I expect by next post we shall be able to forward you the Result of 
Congress" (N. H. State Papers, X. 404). Cf. no. 192, note 3, ante. The following letter 
from Robert R. Livingston (though not then a delegate) to Governor Qinton, written 
from Philadelphia, July 18, is apropos at this point : 

" I arrived here yesterday and found Congress fully engaged in the business of the 
grants in consequence of a remonstrance from New hampshire. A Committee was ap- 
pointed and a report drawn up upon principles very repugnant to our interests. I have got 
some alterations made, it is still far from being unexceptionable, And have solicited the 
members not to proceed till our delegates arrive. Your excellency will see the necessity of 
expediting them as much as possible. The business may otherwise be entered upon with- 
out them when this and other considerations press for a full representation from our 
state. The enclosed extract of a Letter from Lord George Germain to Sir Henry puts 
their connection with Great Britain out of doubt and renders our situation truly alarming. 
I would beg leave to suggest to your Excellency the expedientcy of confering with the 
Genl. (who has certified copies of the Letter) on the subject And however inconvenient 
it may be to you I think the Legislature should be convened immediately for the appoint- 
ment of Delegates and the consideration of this business. It is true that Congress have 
not given nor will as far as I can learn will give [sic] (tho' I have endeavoured to bring 
it about) you any official information on this subject, yet as you already know it, and 
can learn it more authentically from the Genl. you would not be justified if any unfortunate 
consequence should arise from neglecting it. I shall have the honor of conversing with 
you more at large on this subject when I have the honor of seeing you at Poughkeepsie 
which I hope to be in the course of the next week as I shall leave this as soon as our 
delegates arrive who[se] places I am endeavouring as far as lays in my power to supply 
tho' very lamely as you may easily conceive." N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 6438. 

Appended to this letter is an extract from Germain's letter to Sir Henry Clinton Feb. 7, 
1781. See no. 200, antie. 

* See nos. 128, 130, 148, 161, ante. 



July, 1781 149 

202. Richard Potts to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee)/ 

Philadelphia July 17, 1781. 
D'r Sir, 

.... Congress have had before them a number of Official Letters 
from the Ministers in Brittain to their Commander in Chief, and other 
Heads of Departments in America, these were intercepted in a packet 
taken in Europe and transmitted by Mr Jay.'' .... 

[P. S.] The reduction of the post at Augusta is this Moment officially 
announced to Congress — have not time to transmit particulars. Nothing 
official from 96.* 

203. The Georgia Delegates to the Speaker of the Georgia 
Assembly (John Jones). ^ 

Philadelphia, 18 July, 1781. 
Sir, 

Our colleague, Colonel Few, having cheerfully undertaken to repair to 
the State for the purposes mentioned in our joint letter of yesterday, we 
have to request that the honorable House will give him their entire confi- 

[ao2]i N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1033. 

- See the Journals, July 17, and no. 200, ante. Daniel Carroll wrote to Governor 
Lee the same day and to the same effect, except for the news contained in the postscript 
to Potts's letter (N, Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9493). In stating that the intercepted 
letters had been transmitted by Jay, Potts is correct only to the extent that Franklin had 
transmitted them (together with a duplicate of his letter of Mar. 12 to Congress) through 
Jay (see Jay's letter of Apr. 25, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 384). Franklin's letter 
of Mar. 12 (ibid., p. 281), the original of which had been read in Cx)ngress May 28, does 
not however mention the intercepted letters. Writing to Jay Apr. 12 Franklin enclosed 
a duplicate of his letter of Mar. 12 to Congress, " which I leave open for your perusal, 
and desire you to forward with your next despatches ". In a postscript he says : " I enclose 
you copies of a number of letters lately taken and brought here. I wish you could send 
copies of them by different conveyances, as the contents of some are important " (ibid., 

p. 357). 

A letter from John Laurens, Apr. 9 (ibid., p. 355), which also enclosed "extracts of the 
most conspicuous letters of an intercepted mail taken in a packet bound from Falmouth 
to New York ", was likewise read in Congress July 16. Laurens's letter, which was written 
from Versailles, whereas Franklin was at Passy, was not however transmitted through 
Jay, for he says : " Being just apprized of an opportunity from Nantes to America. I take 
the liberty of sending this short provisional letter, lest upon my return to Passy I should 
not have time to write more fully." Meanwhile Franklin had transmitted to John Adams 
in Amsterdam, Apr. 7 (ibid., p. 355), a copy of one of the letters respecting the Arnold 
money (Adams's reply, Apr. 16, is ibid., p. 363), and on Apr. 29 he sent to Adams "ex- 
tracts of two letters ministerial, found in the same packet with the former " (ibid., p. 392). 
It is further to be observed that the Virginia delegates (nos. 208, 234, post) understood that 
the intercepted letters had been transmitted by Franklin. On Sept. 24 Congress received a 
letter of May 3 from Franklin enclosing other copies of the letters. At the same time came 
what was doubtless a duplicate of John Laurens's letter of Apr. 9. 

3 A letter from Roger Sherman to John Lawrence the same day refers to the 
letters from General Greene, and adds : " General Green had besieged the Enemy's Fort 
at Ninety Six in South Carolina, which is the only post they hold in that State except 
Charlestown. We have a report that the Enemy has sent a reinforcement to Ninety Six 
and that General Green has reaised [sic] the Siege but full credit is not given to it." 
Conn. Hist. Soc. 

[203]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 56 (signed by Walton 
and Howly). 



150 Continental Congress 

dence. He has conducted himself here much to our satisfaction, and we 
believe him possessed of the utmost fidelity, and zeal for the service of 
his Country. 

We make no doubt that every necessary measure will be taken for 
convening the Legislature, in which we earnestly recommend harmony 
and good will. 

The Colonel takes charge of the thousand dollars: and may, perhaps, 
be under the necessity of using some of them on the road. 

204. The President of Congress to the Marquis de Lafayette.* 

[July 19, 1781.] 
Sir, 

I had the Honor of your Favor of the 8th Instant with its Inclosures 
by Express, and immediately laid it before Congress. The Action on the 
6th terminated so much to the Glory of the Officers and Soldiers of the 
Detachment engaged, and was so different from the Reports which had 
reached this City, that your Letter was received with great Satisfaction. 
I hope none of our gallant Officers are wounded dangerously. 

Your private Letter to President Huntington was likewise communi- 
cated to Congress and sent to the Board of War.^ 

205. William Sharpe to Christian Febiger.^ 

Philadelphia July 19th 1781. 
Dear Colo., 

.... I am not a little surprised at the inattention of Don Galvez in 
the capitulation which he entered into with the enemy at Pensacola. It 
is contained in one of the inclosed papers to which I beg leave to refer you. 
As we are not yet the Allies of Spain and the f rench under Genl. Washing- 
ton being auxiliary troops and as the prisoners have partly arived and 
are all expected at New York, they will evade the true intent and meaning 
of the capitulation and will in all probability arm against us. This will 
be a reinforcement to the enemy of near one thousand men.^ We are not 
particularly informed what approaches the com'r in chief is making to- 
wards New York. 

Genl. Greene and the Marquis, and their armies deserve the highest 
praise.* 

Neither Mrs. Febiger nor myself have been so happy as to receive a 
line from you since we wrote you last. 

[204] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 60 (draft, endorsed with the date July 19, 
1781). 

2 See the Journals, July 19. The action alluded to was that of Green Springs, Va. 
William Sharpe's letter of July 19 (no. 205, post) speaks more particularly of Lafayette's 
letter, as also of that of General Greene. 

[205]! William L. Clements Library, Qinton Papers (addressed, "Colo. Christian 
Febiger Majr. Genl. Marquis de la Fayette's Headquarters Per Express"). 

2 Cf. no. 179, ante, and nos. 207-209, post. 

3 The omitted passages of the letter relate to news from Lafayette and Greene. 
A letter from Colonel Febiger to Theodorick Bland, dated " Camp, 20 Miles from Williams- 
burgh, July 3d, 1781 " (Bland Papers, IL 71), says that "by a letter from my much 
honored friend, Mr. Sharpe, I am informed of his intention of leaving Philadelphia ". 



July, 1781 151 

P. S, Mr. Johnston is gone home. I will follow about the last of 
August or sooner. I have inclosed to your care a copy of Capt. Stokes's 
commission which I hear he lost at Colo. Bu forts defeat. If I remember 
well he is one of your Captains. 

N. B. : I am disappointed about the commision by the neglect of one 
of the clerks, will send it hereafter. 

206. James Lovell to John Adams.^ 

Philada. July 21, 1781.^ 
Sir, 

[P. S.] private. The whole of the Proceedings here in regard to yr. 
two Commissions are, I think, [ill judged but] I persuade myself no 
[dishonour int] ended, the business greatly in every View [chagrins me] 
this you will have learnt from my former Letters written in an half-light.' 



207. Edmund Randolph to George Webb.^ 

Philadelphia July 23d, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I have neither Time nor Matter for a long Letter. The whole Treasure 
of News being unfortunately in Virginia, you can expect little from hence. 

The inclosed Paper gives every thing in the Power of my Pen, except 
that it is said and believed, tho' not confirmed officially, that 5 Ships of 
War have arrived at New York from Great Britain in one of which the 
King's third Son is a Midshipman. 

The Capitulation of Pensacola, so extraordinary in it's Nature, is to 
receive a Discussion in Congress. But it is difficult to advise the Steps 
fit to be taken with respect to it.^ 

Paper Money is viler than the Rags, on which it is printed before the 
Impression. Indeed it is not even heard of in any Place here. I hoi>e you 
were punctual in taking up your Note for the Horse. 

[2o6]i Adams MSS., Boston; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 597. 

2 A letter from Daniel Carroll to Governor Lee July 21 mentions the arrival of a 
flag from Charles Town, having among its passengers General Moultrie; further, that 
the most important of the intercepted letters remain to be published (N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Emmet Coll., Misc.). 

3 See no. 174, ante. The words in square brackets are in cipher in the original. See 
no. 166, ante. 

[207)1 William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (endorsed, "Copy Intercepted 
Edmund Randolph to Hon'ble G. Webb. Phila'a July 23d, 1781 ") ; Royal Gazette, Sept. 15, 
1781. The issue of the Royal Gazette of Sept. 8 announces : " Part of the contents of a 
new REBEL MAIL (being the fifth) which was taken by a party of REFUGEES on 
Tuesday last. In justice to the several writers their epistles are, and will be, presented 
Verbatim et Literatim." The intercepted letters were printed in the issues from September 
8 to 19. 

2 The Pennsylvania Packet of July 21 prints ("From a Charlestown Paper, of 
June 27 ") " Articles of Capitulation between his excellency Don Bernardo de Galvez .... 
His excellency Peter Chester, esquire .... And his excellency major general John Camp- 
bell .... Fort George, 9th May, 1781 ". See nos. 179, 205, ante, 209, 212, post ; cj. 
Washington to Don Francisco Rendon, Oct. 12 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 378, ed. Sparks, 
VIIL 175). 



152 Continental Congress 

The Delegates have settled Rules of Correspondence with your Body, 
a Copy of which is to be forwarded tomorrow.' We expected a letter from 
the Executive according to Promise by this Days Post, but were disap- 
pointed. 

Signed, Edmund Randolph."* 

208. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson)/ 

.... No doubt you have heard of the extraordinary Capitulation 
agreed to by the Spanish Commander on the reduction of Pensacola, 
whereby the Prisoners Captured there were allowed to be sent to any 
British Port, Jamaica and St. Augustine excepted, and that General Camp- 
bell has made choice of New York, at which place a part of them we are 
informed have already arrived and will no doubt be employed in defence of 
that Post.^ Mr. Boudinot a Member from the State of New Jersey read us 
a Letter yesterday received from a Friend in Elizabeth Town dated the 
20th instant informing him that Admiral Digby had arrived at the Hook 
with five Ships of the Line and it was said had Captured a fifty Gun Ship 
and Frigate of the French. In this Squadron it is said the third Son of 
the King of Great Britain is arrived in the Character of a Midshipman, 
and that a House was taken and preparing for his reception in the City.* 

Some intercepted Letters transmitted us by our Minister at the Court 
of Versailles are ordered to be published. Some of them are interesting 
and others shew the continued delusion and folly of the British Ministry. 
The inclosed Papers contain part of them and may serve to amuse you.* 

We beg to be informed of the important transactions of the last Session 
of Assembly as soon as possible and in particular what Sum of the New 

3 The delegation letter (no. 2c8, post) having been intercepted, the " Rules of 
Correspondence " probably went into Rivington's wastebasket. George Webb was a mem- 
ber of the council, elected May 24, 1780. See Official Letters, II. 123. 

* A brief extract of a letter from Randolph to John Beckley, July 23, is in the 
same issue of the Royal Gazette. 

[208] 1 William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (copy) ; Va. State Lib., Executive 
Papers (copy) ; Royal Gazette, Sept. 15, 1781 ; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 245. The letter 
was signed by Jones, Madison, Bland, and Randolph. 

2 See nos. 179, 205, 207, ante, and nos. 209, 212, post; also the Journals, Aug. 10. 

3 See particularly the comment of Joseph Jones (no. 209, post). The several copies 
of this letter show some noteworthy variations at this point. The copy in Va. State Library 
reads : " it is said the 3d Son of George the 3d is arrived in the Character of Midshipman, 
and that a House was taken for him in New York and preparing for his reception — we 
give you this as private intelligence to Mr. Boudinot not yet authenticated." The text in 
the Royal Gazette reads: "the third Son of (our late most gracious Sovereign) the King 
of Great Britain is arrived in the character of midshipman and that a House was taken 
and preparing for his reception in the city." The sentence " we give .... authenticated " 
is not found there. Against the parenthetical phrase the Royal Gazette has this note in 
italics : " The words ' of our late most gracious Sovereign ' were first wrote and are still 
plain to be seen though blotted. The truth seems inadvertently to have made its escape; 
its light was too glaringly strong for their eyes; and, though adepts in the blackening 
arts, they have in vain endeavoured to hide its lustre." 

The Royal Gazette prefaces its text of the letter thus : " Copy of a letter from the 
Virginia Delegates in Congress to Thomas Nelson, Esq ; the Rebel Governor, without 
a date, but supposed to be the 24th of July, 1781. N. B. It is printed verbatim et 
literatim." 

* See nos. 200-202, ante, and no. 214, post. 



July, 1781 163 

Emission of the i8th of March 1780 has been issued and on what terms 
a [or] proportion of value to the old Bills. 

[Phila: 24th July 1781.] ' 

209. Joseph Jones to Thomas Jefferson/ 

Philadelphia 24th July 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I am happy to find by your Letter which came to hand Yesterday you 
were on the i6th at the Bowling Green on your Return Home, where I 
hope you will in future continue in Safety and undisturbed by his Lord- 
ship's plundering Parties. As it is probable from all Accounts they mean 
to detach either North or South, perhaps both, and leave a Garrison at 
Portsmouth. I fear, as you do, for the fate of General Greene, unless 
Succours shall be sent him. We were told there were 2000 twelve Months 
Men raised in N. Carolina intended to join him, but have heard nothing 
of them lately. If these Men are in the Field, or the half of them, and 
armed, Greene will, with such Militia as he can collect there, be able to 
oppose the Enemy, unless they detach largely to that Quarter, as the 
Reinforcement lately arrived at Charlestown were not more than 2000, 
and these new Levies and very sickly insomuch that Numbers of them died 
on the March to relieve Ninety Six. Virginia shoud not relax; but make 
every Exertion to equip Horsemen, for, in a large Body of Cavalry con- 
sists in great Measure the Protection of a Country so Water intersected 
as ours, where that Element is in the Command of the Enemy, for while 
they move with the Wings of the Wind, we shoud at least be able to move 
with the Speed of the Horse, to meet them and oppose their Ravages. 

The Court of London declines accepting the Mediation of the Empress 
of Russia for settling the disputes between Great Britain and the States 
of Holland, and has referred them over to a general Pacification. 

You must have heard of the Extraordinary Capitulation agreed to by 
the Spanish Commander on the Reduction of Pensacola, whereby it was 
left open to the Enemy to transport their Troops to New York, where 
part of them have already arrived, and will no doubt be in arms for the 
defence of that Post.^ 

Mr. Boudinot read us a Letter yesterday from his Friend at Elizabeth 
Town of the 20th instant informing him Admiral Digby had arrived at 
the Hook with 5 Ships of the Line, and it was said had captured a 50 Gun 

5 This date-line is not found in the copy in the Clinton Papers nor in the Royal 
Gazette. The latter text has at this point, " To his Exc'y Thos Nelson Esqr. Govr. of 
Virginia ". The former bears the endorsement, " Copy intercepted Jos Jones, James 
Madison, Junr., Theophs. Bland, to [and] Edmund Randolph ". 

Among the letters intercepted and printed in the Royal Gazette of Sept. 15 were one 
from Arthur Lee to Richard Henry Lee July 23, and one from James Lovell to Richard 
Henry Lee July 24. The capture of this mail was known in Philadelphia as early as 
July 31, when Madison wrote to Pendleton: "The mail of last week having been inter- 
cepted near Wilmington has kept back the post a day later than his usual arrival." Writ- 
ings, I. 148. 

[209] 1 William L. Dements Library. Clinton Papers (endorsed, "Copy Intercepted 
Jos. Jones — Supposed to be to the late Governor Jefferson of Virginia " ) ; Royal Gazette, 
Sept. 15, 1781, where the person addressed is named as Thomas Jefferson or Edmund' 
Pendleton. 

2 C/. nos. 207, 208, ante. 

14 



154 Continental Congress 

Ship and Frigate of the French. In this Squadron is was also said the 
third Son of George the 3d came over as a Midshipman, and that a House 
was taken for him at New York and under I^reparation for his Reception. 
Although not born amongst us, they may perhaps think we shall be pleased, 
like the Welsh of old, with the Presence of a Prince of the Blood, but what 
Name will they give him? 

Whatever may be the Events of the Campaign, Heaven seems to smile 
upon us in affording a good and plentiful Harvest, the most abundant 
this way ever known and am pleased to find it continues South, tho' I 
expect the Progress of the Enemy must have lessoned the Crops in our 
State. 

P. S. While in Virginia, I mentioned to you in a Letter to Richmond, 
some great Questions I Expected would be agitated in Congress, and 
expressed my Wish to know your Sentiments upon them. Are they of 
so delicate a Nature you choose not to touch them? or by your Silence 
do you mean to insinuate they ought not to be touched ? * 

J.J. 

210. Joseph Jones to John Taliaferro.^ 

Philadelphia 24th July 178 1. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . .^ What may be expected from France I cannot undertake to say 
but we have x\ssurances of every Support in her Power and are not with- 
out hope she will command the Water but these Matters are contingent 
and being uncertain demand the greater Exertions on our Part for our 
own Safety. By the Capitulation agreed to on the Surrender of Pensacola, 
the Garrison were permited to go to any British Port but Jamaica or 
St. Augustine, whereby they have been sent to New York where we shall 
have them to contend with in Addition to the Force at that Place before 
their Arrival. 

The Empress of Russia's Offer to mediate between Great Britain and 
Holland has been rejected by the former and referred over to a general 
Pacification. Some intercepted Letters taken in the Falmouth Packet for 
New York and carried into France and which have been transmitted us 
by our Minister there clearly opens the Designs and Expectations of the 
Enemy with respect to the Subjugation of the Southern States as well as 
continued Delusion and Folly of the British Administration, at least the 
Minister for the American Department whose Letters we have so late as 
7th March when their late Successes had so elated them as to leave no 
Doubt but the Southern States were in Subjection and that the superior 
Force they had in America would enable Clinton to send Troops up to 

^ The principal question was no doubt that of enlarging the powers of Congress. 
See nos. 29, 30, 48, 64, 65, anie. 

[2 10] 1 William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (endorsed, "Copy Intercepted 

Jos. Jones to ") ; Royal Gazette, Sept. 15, 1781, where the person addressed is 

named as " Col. John Taliefero ". 

~ The omitted passage relates items of news, much the same in substance as in 
no. 209, ante. 



July, 1 78 1 155 

the Head of Chesapeak and in Conjunction with the Loyalists of Mary- 
land and Pennsylvania subdue those States, and that General Washington 
commanding but a handful of Men must cross the Hudson and take 
Refuge in the Eastern States, where being deprived of Succours and 
Supplies from the South he must soon be without Men to support him 
and become a Sacrifice to General Clinton's Army, fine Prospect this to 
Lord George, but alas! where has it vanished or where did it exist but 
in his own Imagination ? We are told the Dutch are determined to prose- 
cute the War and disposed to be allied to these States. 

[P. S.] Mrs. Jones, Joe and myself are but so so. 

211. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall.^ 

Phila. July 24th, 1 78 1. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... We have had no late accounts from Europe. Attempts have been 
made by the Generals Clinton and Haldimand to reduce the people of 
Vermont and I fear not without some success; if we do not soon make 
them independant the British will endeavor to do it. Ned Rutledge. 
Middleton, and Gadsden with many others exchanged are dayly expected 
from Augustine. Our great Estate as you call it remains in the same 
situation as it did before the Confederation, indeed I think in a much 
worse. The adoption of that measure after holding out so long will I 
fear be productive of many ills, but not one good consequence to our State, 
nor do I believe that our Ally ever hinted to his Minister that the accession 
of Maryland was a desirable event to him. I wish our Troops were in 
motion for some place or other. They must distress the inhabitants near 
them. This moment I am informed that R H Lee has wrote to a Gent n 
in Town that Cornwallis was Marching towards the Carolina's — I am not 
sorry for it. He must lose many of his men should this intelligence prove 
true.^ 

212. Richard Potts to Samuel Hughes.^ 

Philadelphia July 24th, 1781. 
My Dear Sir, 

I have received your Letter by the Post, and by Return inclose you the 
last Papers for the Amusement of your Leisure Hours. They contain 

[2ii]i William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers. 

2 The first part of this letter is mainly a summary of news from South Carolina 
and Virginia. A letter of the same date to Charles Carroll, almost identical with this letter, 
is ibid., as is also a letter of July 23 to Thomas Stone (presumably), likewise nearly the 
same in substance. A similar letter of July 24 to George Plater is in the Royal Gazette, 
Sept. 15, 1781. In the letter to Stone he observed: "The Delegates are still distressed 
for money. I wish you had sent me 20 or thirty pounds specie by the Alderman tho' 
God knows when I could have repaid it." To Carroll he remarked : " Your School fellow 
I believe is not the worst General the British have had in America. He never retreated." 

In the Royal Gazette of Sept. 19 is a short letter, dated July 23, from Jenifer to " Mr. 
John Qaivo, at Stepney near Annapolis ", concerning domestic affairs. 

[212]! William L. Clements Library, Clinton Papers (endorsed, "Copy Intercepted, 

Rich'd Potts to ") ; Royal Gazette, Sept. 15, 1781, where the person addressed is 

named as Samuel Hughes. 



156 Continental Congress 

the latest Advices and include every Occurrence worth Communicating. 
In them you will find the Capitulation entered into between the Garrison 
of Pensacola and the Spanish General. In this Capitulation the Interest 
of the united States seems to be entirely unattended to, and the Success 
of the Spaniards in its Consequences in that Instance will be more pre- 
judicial to our Operations, than their failure would have been. The 
Garrison are arrived at New York and will make a Reinforcement of so 
many to the British Garrison. The Terms of Capitulation between Genl. 
Pikens and Col'l Lee, and the Garrison at Augusta are also in the Papers 
and present a striking Contrast to those granted by the Spaniards.'' 

Your Observations respecting Col'l Hall shall be attended to, and as I 
shall probably leave Philadelphia before any Thing on that Subject may 
be agitated, have communicated the Information to Messrs. Jenifer and 
Carroll. Without your Information he wou'd perhaps have suffered from 
the opinion taken up respecting his having retired on half Pay, which 
was the Light my Colleagues and myself, from Reports, thought he 
stood in.' 

At this Time I wish and mean to leave this Place, in Time to call on 
you, on the Wednesday or Thursday of next Week, so as to reach 
Frederick on the Sunday following with you. As I possibly may be 
disappointed wou'd not have you wait for me after that Time. Give my 
best Compliments to Mrs. Hayhes [Hughes]. 

[P. S.] 



213. Elias Boudinot to John Stevens.^ 

Philad. July 24, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

I sett off from home on the 18 Inst, and have just entered on my 
Mission. On Dr. Witherspoon shewing me the Vote of the joint Meeting, 
by which we were appointed, I was surprized to find that from the word- 
ing of it. Dr. Elmer and myself can have no Vote in Congress without 
one of the former Members are with us. I informed Dr. W. that I could 
not take my Seat under this Appointment and do Justice to my own 
Character and feelings, but he assuring me that it was a misprision of the 
Clerk, I have been prevailed on to Continue till your Answer on this 
Head can be had, and if possible a proper Certificate from the Secretary 
by your order. 

A Line from you on this Subject will be very obliging." 

2 Cf. nos. 207-209, ante. 

* The reference is apparently to Col. Josias Carvel Hall. HJs case does not appear 
to have been brought up in Congress. 

[313] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 78; Library of Congress, Boudinot Papers 
(copy) ; Boudinot, Life of Boudinot, I. 220. 

2 See no. 223, post. Stevens was " Chairman of the Joint Meeting ". 



July, 1781 157 

214. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, 24th July, 1781. 
Sir, 

On Tuesday last Mr. Mowery arrived in Philadelphia and has taken his 
Seat in Congress accordingly. Congress have lately received, by the Way 
of France, a large Number of intercepted Letters from Lord George 
Germaine, etc., to Sir Henry Clinton, etc. In wch it appears that the 
British were full in their expectation of all the States Southward and 
Westward of the Hudson River being returned to their Allegiance before 
this Period. They expected that General Washington would be confined 
to the eastern States, and that Sir Henry Clinton would be able to detach 
a considerable Force to Nova Scotia to enable General McClain to reduce 
the Province of Main, and form an Establishment for the Tories, at and 
near Penobscot. Under these Circumstances they expected this Campaign 
would finish the War, and oblige America to Supplicate for Peace upon 
Terms of Submission. From this Apprehension the Court of London 
has refused the Mediation offered by the Court of Russia for reestablish- 
ing Peace between Great Britain and Holland. By Accounts from Vir- 
ginia, we learn that Lord Cornwallis has divided his Force, one part of 
which is going Southward, one part to New York, and the remainder will 
form a Post at Portsmouth. 

Gen. Green has reduced Augusta, but raised the siege of Ninety-Six. 
We are informed that Admiral Digby has arrived at New-York with Five 
Sail of the Line, but are not certain. The Court of Versailles is determined 
to effect a Naval Superiority in these Seas in Course of the Campaign, 
and appear extremely anxious for the Safety of the United States.* 

P. S. — It appears in one of Lord George Germaine's Letters, that Ver- 
mont were in the King's Allegiance. We hope this is not true ; but shews 
the Necessity of terminating the Disputes respecting that Territory. 
Congress are now upon the Subject; but what will be the Result, we 
cannot ascertain. 

215. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia July 24 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I reed, yours of the 9th instant inclosing the resolve of Court concern- 
ing our bills exch'g etca. which I find require two months notice. In com- 
plyance with this resolve, I now notify that I shall draw for one hundred 
pounds law full mony to be paid in two months from the moment you 
receive this letter. This I take to be legal notice. So I must live on borrow- 

[214]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1780-1781, p. 107; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 348. The letter is signed by Mowry and Varnum. 

2 Cj. no. 222, post. With regard to Germain's intercepted letters see nos. 200, 202, 
ante. 

[215]! N. H. Hist. See, Weare Papers, X. 14. 



158 Continental Congress 

ing, or nobody knows how, for I have not 40 dollers clear at this time. 
I shall use frugality ; and expect to render account : but I cant live here 
without considerable sums for clothing for myself and servant which the 
state must advance, let it be towards my pay. I have a son with me not at 
the expence of the state. I am glad of the papers from Vermont. That 
dispute is in agitation and 1 hope will soon be ended. York delegates not 
arrived. Your commissions are sent forward.^ 

[P. S. I Genl. Sullivan will be home I exjxict pretty soon. I am prepar- 
ing a sett of journals for the state. I wish Mr. Oilman may set out im- 
mediately as it will be inconvenient for me to be here alone 

216. The President of Congress to the States from 
New Hampshire to New Jersey.^ 

(-,. Philadelphia July 25th 1781. 

The United States in Congress Assembled are so fully convinced of 
the necessity of the most vigorous operations against the posts of New- 
York and its dependencies, that they are induced to urge, in the most 
pressing manner, a prompt and decided compliance with the requisitions 
from the Commander in Chief, for men and supplies. We are sensible the 
demands must be extensive, and a full compliance with them appear diffi- 
cult, but the objects of these Operations are so important in themselves, 
and so intimately connected with the pleasing Idea of re-establishing Peace, 
and of avoiding the calamities of preceding campaigns, that we assure 
ourselves every Obstacle will be surmounted, and the same Virtuous 
struggles which have hitherto supported the War, will speedily bring it 
to a glorious issue." 

217. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

I have the Honor to inclose your Excellency the Copy of a Letter from 
the Marquis de la Fayette to Major General Greene dated the ist Instant, 
and also Copies of several Letters between General Lord Cornwallis and 
the Marquis respecting Prisoners ^ 

2 See nos. 192, 201, ante, 224, 225, post. 

[216] 1 Copied from the original (to New Hampshire), then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. 
Henkels of Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1139, item 223; id. to New York, ibid., 
no. 1023, item 246 ; Mass. Arch., CCIH. 367. 

-A draft of this letter is found in the Journals, p. 790 n. It was doubtless pre- 
sented by the committee to whom the intercepted letters were referred July 16. The chair- 
man of the committee was Varnum, and the draft is in his writing. 

With a circular letter of the same date President McKean transmitted the acts of the 
23d and 24th respecting aid for the distressed citizens of South Carolina and Georgia 
(Letter-Book, p. 47, and elsewhere; printed in Arch, of Md., XLVII. 368; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., IX. 309). The action had its origin in a motion of Theodorick Bland July 13. 
A report upon the motion was read July 18, considered the 21st and 23d. 

[217]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 48; 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 66 (draft). 

2 The enclosures were: Lafayette to Cornwallis May 21, 25, 27, June 2, 20, to the 
President of Congress July 21, to General Greene July 21 ; Cornwallis to Lafayette May ^, 
June 4, 28. The letter referred to as from Lafayette to General Greene "dated the ist 
Instant " was doubtless the letter of July 21 mentioned above. Copies of these letters are 
in the Washington Papers. 



July, 1781 169 

These Papers having been just now read in Congress, I send them on 
to your Excellency by Express, that you may have the earliest Informa- 
tion possible of the Situation of the British Army in Virginia 

In Congress, July 26th, 1781. 

218. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.' 

Philada. July 26, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

It gives me a very singular Pleasure, that, in Obedience to an Act of 
Congress of the 25th Instant, a Copy of which you have inclosed, I am 
to acquaint you, that the Measures you have pursued for the Security of 
the Southern States, and for dispossessing the Enemy of the several Posts 
occupied by them afford such Proofs of your Judgment, Vigilance and 
Firmness as recommend you to the entire Approbation of Congress : and 
that Congress are equally sensible of the Zeal, Gallantry and Perseverance 
displayed by the Officers and Soldiers under your Command, in the various 
Services in which they have been employed, and the Difficulties with which 
they have contended. 

If I may judge from what is past, the Southern Campaign will terminate 
with great Honor to yourself and Glory to your Country. 

When the most virtuous Cause that ever a People was engaged in is 
conducted with consummate Prudence and Wisdom, supported by Forti- 
tude and true Courage, and visibly favored by the Almighty, there are 
the surest Grounds to expect Success. 

That you may give Peace, I.iberty and Independence to the Southern 
States, whose Sufferings, Bravery and determined Conduct prove them 
to be entirely worthy of those Blessings ; and that you may return crowned 
with Laurels, is the most ardent Prayer, of. Sir, 

P. S. Your Favor of the 20th of June last was received and read in 
Congress on the 19th Instant. 

219. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office July 26, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Board have been honoured with your Excellencys letters of the 9, 
17th [i6th] and 21 Instant. We shall be always happy in promoting the 
Views of Congress and never more so than when we can contribute to 
your Relief and in some measure make your life agreeable under the 
fatigues and dangers to which you are unavoidably exposed.^ .... 

The remainder of the Stores contained in the Estimates are ready, to- 
gether with forty eight dozen of Red Wine and will go from this place 
immediately. Two dozen Silver Tumblers and two dozen Spoons are 
making and will be sent as soon as finished. 

[218]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 49. 
[219] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

- In the omitted passage the board state that the cash desired has been arranged 
for and that estimates of the other articles desired are enclosed. See no. 184, ante. 



160 Continental Congress 

A Person to act as Steward or Caterer in your family will be procured 
and sent to you if a proper person can be found that will undertake that 
Business, as much depends on such a person and a responsibility in the 
Procurers we dare not promise to send one immediately but can assure 
you nothing shall be wanting on our part. 

220. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed)/ 

The Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress present their Compliments 
to his Excellency the President and Council, and inform them that they 
have considered their favour of the 23d Inst., and are of the Opinion 
that the present is not the most proper Time to prefer the Petition therein 
alluded to.* 

In Congress, July 26, 1781. 

221. William Sharpe to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Thomas Burke). ^ 

Philadelphia, July 28, 1781. 
Sir, 

Mr. Johnston, who left this place on the 14th instant will communicate 
to your Excellency ever)^hing material from this quarter on his arival 
in the state. 

I greatly lament the absence of so able a representative and of so 
judicious and very agreable coUegue. Upon the resignation of Mr. Hunt- 
ington he was almost unanimously elected and earnestly solicited to take 
the chair ; but his ill state of health and other considerations induced him 
to decline it.^ 

The most particular object which rendered it necessary for me to con- 
tinue here a few weeks longer was to procure and forward arms to our 
state agreeable to a resolution of Congress which we obtained for that 
purpose on the 26 of April, a copy of which I do myself the honor 

[220]^ Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 307. 

2 The following is Reed's letter (ibid., p. 306) : "Agreeable to the Resolution of 
Assembly we have prepared a Petition to Congress requesting a Hearing upon the Qaim 
set up by Connecticut for the Susquehanna Lands agreeable to the Articles of Confedera- 
tion. But as we would not embarrass Congress or take up their Time with a disagreeable 
Discussion at an improper Season, we shall be glad of your Opinion whether it will at this 
Juncture be seasonable and proper." 

[22i]i Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

2 See the Journals, July 6, 9, 10; cf. no. 190, ante; also Ashe, Hist, of N". C., I. 713. 
Johnston himself wrote to Governor Burke from " N. Hampton County " July 30 : 

" Having no prospect of being relieved or supplyed with money for my expenses and 
my disorder, which abated a little on the first approach of warm weather, returning so as 
to render me of little use in Congress I left Philadelphia on the 14th, for which I hope I 

shall be held excusable by this State I write to you in great haste and my Spirits 

greatly agitated by having just heard of the loss of my youngest son, as sweet a little 
fellow as ever was born" (N. C. State Recs., XV. 588). Aug. 6 he again wrote to 
Governor Burke : " I .... do not now recollect whether I mentioned to you the 
necessity of sending on as soon as possible Two Delegates to Congress. One will answer 
no useful purpose as Mr. Sharpe has resolved .... to return Home." Ibid., XXII. 
554. 



July, 1 78 1 161 

to enclose. The enemy being in force in Virginia made it necessary that 
the arms first repaired should be sent there. The want of money and the 
deranged condition of the laboratories are the causes of this business going 
on so slow. Fifteen hundred stand are all that we can get at present. 
Five hundred are now ready; it may be three or four weeks before the 
remainder are finished. On application I have obtained an order for 
1500 cartouch boxes and a sufficient quantity of fixed amunition. The 
arms are equal to any in the army, with good bayonets. The next great 
difficulty is for the quarter-master to procure waggons for the transporta- 
tion. I shall spare no pains nor leave anything in my power unessayed to 
have them forwarded without loss of time. 

The Superintendent of finance and the board of war have such diffi- 
culties in the dispensation of our small fund of money, that without my 
close attention the state will never receive one of the necessary articles. 
Tho your delegates here have not received any explicit instructions on this 
subject, yet I flatter myself that our conduct will meet with the entire 
approbation of your Excellency and the legislature.^ .... 

222. William Sh.\rpe to Nathan ael Greene.^ 

r^ r- 1 Philadelphia Julv 28, 1781. 

Uear GeneraJ, -^ ' ' 

I hope you will see Governor Rutledge an[d] Colo. Few who will be 
able to give you a minute account of the public affairs here and in Europe. 

Copies of the most conspicuous letters from Lord George Germaine to 
Sir Henry Clinton intercepted and sent here by way of France were sent 
you by Colo. Few which I hope you will duly receive. Colo. Laurens last 
letter from France gives a prospect of some farther pecuniary aid and that 
the Minister of Marine will, if possible, establish a naval superiority on 
the american seas before the close of this campaign.* 

The seperate offer of mediation made by the court of Petersburg be- 
tween the States general and England hath been deferred by the latter until 
conferences shall open the subject of a general pacification. This event 
cannot be unfavorable to us, and no doubt was dictated by the same views 
and principles which is manifested in Germains letters. 

There is nothing material from the main army nor from the West 
Indias. 

If you have obliged the enemy to abandon their post at ninety six, as 
is reported, it will be gaining a very great point. The fatag^e [sic] that 
you and your little army undergo pain me to the heart. May you live to 
enjoy the fruit of your labor. 

With the highest respect and esteem I am my dear Genl. 

Your most Obt. Humble Servt. 

Wm. Sharpe. 

3 Burke was elected governor of North Carolina bv the general assembly Tune 25. 
See N. C. State Recs., XVII. 806-814, 888-899. 

[222]! William L. Dements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 The reference appears to be to John Laurens's letter of May 15 (Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., IV. 416). The extracts of letters from Germain were sent by Laurens Apr. 9 
(see no. 200, ante). Cf. Madison to Pendleton July 31, in Writings, I. 147, and to James 
Madison, sr., Aug. i, ibid., p. 148. A letter from the Virginia delegates to Governor 
Nelson July 31 is in Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 738. 



162 Continental Congress 

223. Elias Boudinot to Peter Wilson.^ 

Philadelphia July 28th 1781. 
Sir, 

I think it my duty as well as an honor to have the Pleasure of addressing 
you on my taking a Seat in Congress as one of your Delegates, and shall 
be very glad of a continued Correspondence while at this Place, as I 
should be always glad to Conform myself to the general Ideas of my 
Constituents. I set oflf for this Place on the 18th Inst but was much 
surprised on my arrival here to find that by the Resolution of the Joint 
Meeting Appointing Dr. Elmore and myself, that we are restricted from 
representing the State of New Jersey unless one of the former Delegates 
are present. This we consider as making an invidious Distinction between 
us and could not have taken our Seats under this partial Appointment, 
consistent with our reputation and feelings had not Dr. Witherspoon 
assured us that it must be a base misprision of the Clerk, this has prevailed 
on me to continue here till we can hear from you, which I must beg to 
be by return of the next Stage. I would be glad of your information what 
appeared to you to be the Sense of the Legislature, for tho' Congress make 
no Objection to our representing the State, yet it will not be safe or pru- 
dent for us to vote alone under the express Declaration of the State to 
the Contrary unless we are properly assured that it is a Mistake.* 

As this goes by the Stage, which is an uncertain Conveyance, I can say 
nothing in point of News but what may be made publick with safety.^ 
Our affairs both abroad and to the Southward, bear the most flattering 
Aspects, and we are encouraged to hope and expect the happiest Conse- 
quences from the continued struggles of the year. It is a matter of the 
highest Consequence, that the requisitions of our worthy General on the 
different States be punctually and immediately Complied with. You could 
not do a more essential Service to these States than to urge completion of 
the levies for the Army. Lord Cornwallis has retired to Portsmouth and 
the Marquis after gaining great Laurels in his late attack on his Lordship 
is refreshing his little Army so as at the same time to cover the Country. 
Could you with propriety communicate what you consider as the Ideas 
of our Legislature, relative to the dispute of Vermont and the expediency 
of their being declared a free and Independent State, I should be much 
obliged.* 

[223]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 79; Library of Congress, Boudinot Papers 
(copy) ; Boudinot, Life of Boudinot, I. 221. 

2 July 24 Boudinot had written to John Stevens, chairman of the Joint Meeting, 
to the same effect, though more briefly (no. 213, ante). 

8 In a letter to Mrs. Boudinot July 29 (Life, I. 223) he tells how the city is 
filled with refugees from Georgia and South Carolina, his difficulties in finding suitable 
lodgings, etc. 

* See nos. 192, 201, ante, 224, 225, post. 



July, 17S1 163 

224. Roger Sherman to Josiah Bartlett/ 

Philadelphia July 31, 1781. 
Sir, 

Enclosed is a copy of an Act of the General Court of the Massachusetts, 
respecting the State of Vermont,- the Matter has been debated for several 
days past in Congress, on a report of a Committee, to whom was referred 
a Letter from the President of your State. The Committee reported as 
their opinion, " that copies of the act of Massachusetts be sent to the 
States of New Hampshire and New York, and that the expediency of 
passing similar acts be referred to them. And in case they relinquish their 
claims of Jurisdiction over the Grants on the west side of Connecticut 
River, Bounded East by said River, North by Latitude forty five Degrees, 
West by lake Champlain and the west lines of several Townships Granted 
by the Governor of New Hampshire, to the North west corner of Massa- 
chusetts, and South by the north line of Massachusetts, Congress will 
guaranty the Land and Jurisdiction belonging to the said States re- 
spectively, lying without the said limits, against all claims and Encroach- 
ments of the people within those limits. ["] What will be ultimately done 
in Congress is uncertain. Some Gentlemen are for declaring Vermont 
an Independent State, others, for explicitly recommending to the States 
aforesaid to relinquish their claims of Jurisdiction, others, only for re- 
ferrring it to their consideration as reported by the Committee, and some 
few are against doing any thing that will tend to make a new State 

P. S. Since writing the foregoing Congress have recotnmitted the re- 
port. New York delagates arrived to day. They are instructed to move 
for a decision of the affair of Vermont.^ 

225. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, July 31 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been at this Place so short a time, that I am unable to inform 
you of many of the special Matters of Public Concernment now before 
Congress. The Arrangement of the different Boards, a further proposed 
Confederation, and the settlement of the dispute with Vermont seem to 
be the Principal objects talked of ; the last more especially, which Congress 
have had under Consideration for some time before our arrival. Some 
intercepted letters from Lord G. Germane on this subject, and the sollici- 
tations of New Hampshire, tis said induced them to take up this business 

[aa4pHist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 43 (draft); Hist. 
Magazine, VI. 277; Vt. Recs., III. 293. 

- The Massachusetts act. Mar. 8, 1781, is ibid., II. 199. 

3 The report referred to, presented by a committee appointed July 9, is in the 
Journals, July 20. The report was taken into consideration July 24, 28, and 31, and on the 
day last mentioned was referred to a new committee. This second committee's report is 
in the JounuUs, Aug. 2. See further ibid., Aug. 3, 7, 8, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, Dec. 5, 6; 
cf. nos. 192, 201, ante, 225, 235-239, 244, post. 

[22sy Clinton Papers, VII. 149; Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, II. 148. 



164 Continental Congress 

without a Representation from New York. The plan is, which is a Report 
of a Committee, to recommend it to New York and New flampshire, to 
relinquish their jurisdiction or to consult on the Propriety of doinj^ it, 
to the State of Vermont, according to her former claims, the Massachu- 
setts having already passed a Law for that purpose provided the other 
States would do the same. This report being the order of this Day, was 
recommitted. This plan probably might in some degree exculpate Congress 
from blame, and they might with better Grace refer the sufferers to the 
State, who had voluntarily relinquished their jurisdiction, for Compensa- 
tion for their Lands; tis said a Person from our State lately informed 
some members of Congress that a Majority of the Assembly and a greater 
Part of the Senate were in favour of granting their Independence. 
Possibly this might have some effect.^ The Committee to whom was re- 
ferred our Remonstrance against the Commissions from Connecticut and 
the late ordinance of Congress have not yet Reported, tho they have 
promised me it shall be done to-morrow, and I make no doubt it will be 
favorable. The instructions from the Admiralty I am told is pointed 
against going on the Land and confines all Captures to the Water, which 
will be publicly made known.^ .... 

226. Oliver Ellsworth to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Aug. ist, 1781. 
Sir, 

My health being reduced so low as not to admit of my constant atten- 
dance in Congress, and the scituation of my family and affairs making 
it necessary for me soon to return home, I propose, Sir, to return the 
beginning of autumn, which, I hope, your Excellency will not disapprove 
of. I have wrote to Mr. Law, who I supposed would come next to Con- 
gress, acquainting with my circumstances, and requesting him to come 
forward and take his seat in Congress by the ist of Septr., or sooner if 
he could. And I take the liberty to request of your Excellency, in case 
Mr. Law should by any means fail of coming, that some other gentleman 
in the delegation as shall be most convenient for them may be called on. 

Nothing very material has of late passed in Congress. There is at 
present a representation from all the States except North Carolina 

227. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Sir, 

.... A Member of a Committee of Congress, one of the Board of 
War and the Superintendant of Finance purpose to wait on your Excel- 
lency in a few Days at Head Quarters in order to fix upon the Arrange- 

2 See no. 224, ante. 

* See the Journals, July 6, 13, Aug. 7, and nos. 239, 251, 260, 281, 282, 303, 304, 
post. 

[226]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 258. 

[227]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 51; 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, L 69 (draft). 



August, 1781 165 

ment of the Army for the next Year etc." This will at least discover to 
our Enemies, that we are determined to persevere in well doing, and to 
be prepared for any Event, and the Measure having been adopted earlier 
than at any Period of the \\'ar heretofore has a favorable Aspect 

Philadelphia August 3, 1781 

228. The New York Delegates, Memorial to Congress.^ 

[August 3, 1 78 1.] 
To the United States of America in Congress Assembled : 

The underwritten Delegates for the State of New York have the 
Honour, in Obedience to an express Instruction from the Legislature of 
the State of New York to represent, that on the 24th Day of September 
1779 it was unanimously resolved by Congress, that it be most earnestly 
recommended to the States of New Hampshire Massachusetts and New 
York (among other Things) forthwith to pass Laws to refer to the De- 
cision of Congress all Differences and Disputes relative to Jurisdiction 
over the District called the New Hampshire Grants which they respectively 
had with the People of that District so that Congress might proceed 
thereon on the first Day of February then next. And Congress did thereby 
pledge their Faith to carry into Execution, and support their decision and 
Determination in the premises. 

That Congress having declared it to be essential to the Interests of the 
whole Confederacy, that all intestine Dissentions be carefully avoided, and 
domestick Peace and good Order maintained, it was further unanimously 
Resolved that it was the Duty of the People of the District aforesaid who 
denied the Jurisdiction of all the aforesaid States to abstain in the mean 
Time from exercising any Power over any of the Inhabitants of the said 
District, who profess themselves to be Citizens of, or to owe Allegiance 
to any or either of the said States ; but that none of the Towns either on 
the East or West Side of Connecticut River were to be considered as 
included within the said District but such as had theretofore joined in 
denying the Jurisdiction of either of the said States, and had assumed 
a separate Jurisdiction which they calld the state of Vermont ; and further 
that in the Opinion of Congress the three states aforesaid ought in the 
mean Time to suspend executing their Laws over any of the Inhabitants 
of the said District, except such of them as professed Allegiance to, and 
confessed the Jurisdiction of the same respectively ; and further that Con- 

2 See the Journals, July 26, 31. The act of July 26 was the appointment of a com- 
mittee of conference (Carroll, Bland, and Varnum), and it was on the recommendation 
of this committee July 31 that a member of the board of war and the superintendent of 
finance were joined with the committee. See nos. 232, 247, 265, 271, 395, 403, post. Follow- 
ing is a minute of the board of war of this date (Washington Papers) : 

"At a Board of War August 3d, 1781. 

"A Member of the Board being directed to repair to Head Quarters to confer with the 
Commander in Chief, Agreed, That Mr. Peters be the Member appointed to proceed to 
Head Quarters, agreable to the directions of Congress. Extract from the Minutes. 
Jos : Carleton, Secy." 

[228] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 40, vol. II., f. yj ; N. Y. State 
Lib., Legislative Papers, no. 2430 (copy); British Museum, 21835:96; Clinton Papers, 
\ll. 164; Vt.Recs., II. i\2. < J^ ^< 



166 Continental Congress 

gress would consider any Violencies committed against the Tenor, true 
Intent and Meaning of that Resolution, as a brea[c]h of the Peace of the 
Confederacy which they were determined to keep and maintain. And it 
is further Resolved unanimously that in the Opinion of Congress no 
unappropriated Lands or Estates which were or might he adjudged for- 
feited or Confiscated lying in the said District ought, until the final De- 
cision of Congress in the Premises to be granted or sold. 

That in Pursuance of the said Recommendation the Legislature of the 
state of New York passed a Law fully authorising Congress (among 
other Things) to hear and determine all Differences and Disputes relative 
to the Jurisdiction between the State of New York and such of the In- 
habitants of that Part of the said District which lies on the west side of 
Connecticut River as denyed the Jurisdiction of that State, and that the 
said Decision being duly made and published should be and remain final 
and conclusive against that state forever. 

That in Conformity to the said Resolution and Law and at great Ex- 
pense, the state of New York made the necessary Preparations for sup- 
porting their territorial Rights, and similar Steps were taken on the Part 
of the State of New Hampshire. 

That on the 19th Day of September 1780, all the Parties concerned 
in the said Controversy (Massachusetts Bay excepted) attended namely 
the Delegates and Agents for the States of New York and New Hamp- 
shire respectively; Ira Allen and Stephen Bradley in Behalf of the People 
of the Grants claiming a seperate and Independant Jurisdiction. Luke 
Knowlton Agent on behalf of a Number of Towns within that Part of 
the said District known by the Name of the County of Cumberland, and 
Peter Alcott — and Bazaleel Woodward agent [s] for the Towns in the 
Northern Parts of the said District on both sides of the Connecticut River 
and the Delegates as agents for the state of New York laid before Con- 
gress Evidence with an intent to prove that the District known by the 
Name of the New Hampshire Grants on the west side of Connecticut 
River is within the Limits of the State of New York ; That the state of 
New Hampshire had acknowledged this, and that the People of the said 
District had been represented in the Legislature of New York since the 
Year 1764, and submitted to the Authority Jurisdiction and Government 
of the Congress and Convention of the said State 'till late in the Year 
1777 and therefore have no Right to a seperate and Independant Jurisdic- 
tion: That on the 27th Day of the said Month of September all the 
Parties being present except Messrs. Allen and Bradley Agents for the 
People of the Grants claiming a seperate and independant Jurisdiction, 
who altho' duly notified now declined any further Attendance ; the agents 
for the state of New Hampshire proceeded to offer Evidence tending 
to prove, that the Tract of Country known by the Name of the New 
Hampshire Grants, was within tlie state of New Hampshire, and that 
therefore the I'eople Inhabiting the said Tract of Country can have no 
Right to a seperate and Independant Jurisdiction. That Luke Knowlton 
Agent on behalf of part of the County of Cumberland within the said 
District, and Peter Olcott and Basaleel Woodward Agents from the 
Towns in the Northern Parts of the New Hampshire Grants on both 



August, 178 1 167 

sides of Connecticut River being respectively called upon, and having 
nothing to add, and pressing Congress to come to a Determination 
withdrew. 

That the Delegates of the state of New York have repeatedly entreated 
Congress to decide the Matters in Question respecting the Claim of an 
independant State, set up by some of the Inhabitants of the District 
aforesaid, but a Decision hath hitherto been defered. The underwritten 
Delegates are further instructed to represent that the state of New York 
in complyance with the Resolutions of Congress before recited, have 
hitherto suspended the Execution of their laws over any Inhabitants of 
the said District except such as professed Allegiance to and confessed the 
Jurisdiction of the same and have refrained from granting any Lands 
within the said District. The Inhabitants who deny our Jurisdiction on 
the Contrary have strengthen'd their Party by disposing of those Lands 
and exercised Force to compel their Neighbours within the said District 
who profess themselves to be Citicens of and to owe Allegiance to the state 
of New York to submit to their Authority; And in Violation of the 
express Resolutions of Congress have passed Acts to include within their 
Assumed Jurisdiction several Considerable Settlements extending West- 
ward from the Claim they set up, at the Time of passing the said Reso- 
lution, to the middle of Hudson's River. That these high-handed 
Incroachments have greatly interrupted the raising of Levies and Supplies 
within the State of New York for the support of the War ; and must be 
productive of further Weakness and Disorder and render the said State, 
already greatly exhausted and desolated, altogether unable to contribute 
to the common Cause. 

From these weighty Considerations the underwritten are expressly in- 
structed by the Legislature of the State of New York to urge Congress 
agreably to their said Resolutions and Engagements to decide the Con- 
troversy so long subsisting, respecting the Claim of independant Jurisdic- 
tion set up under the pretended State of Vermont : and to take Measures 
in the mean Time for restraining the Incroachments of the said In- 
habitants, at least, within the Bounds which they themselves have till the 
late extraordinary extention considered represented and Claimed as 
comprehending the New Hampshire Grants. The underwritten do there- 
fore by this publick Act, which they pray may be received and filed among 
the Records of the United States, make known the just Expectations 
and earnest Request of the Legislature of the State of New York : de- 
claring their readiness to lay before such of the Members of Congress 
as may be uninformed, satisfactory Evidence of the Title of New York 
to all that Part of the Controverted District which lies on the west side 
of Connecticut River. 

Done at Philadelphia in Obedience to the express Instruction of the 
Legislature of the State of New York the 3d Day of August 1781 and 
in the Sixth Year of our Independance. 

(Signed) Jas. Duane 

Delegates for the State of New York ^^ra L'Hommedieu 

and Agents in the Controversy refered to.^ 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 3, and no. 235, post. 



168 Continental Congress 

229. Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 
D'r S'r, 

I have received your favour of the 2d inst. with the inclosures, and shall 
take proper care of them. 

Mr. Morris seting- out for Head quarters in the morning I embrace 
the opportunity to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the loth ult : and 
to thank you for the Copies of the intercepted Letters, the originals were 
transmitted us by Dr. Franklin — these shew the continued delusion and 
folly of the British Ministry, now rendered more conspicuous by our late 
successes.^ 

.... The Dons seem to play the game wholly for themselves 

We are told Holland is disposed to an alliance with these States, it may 
be so, but I fear she has a remnant of Spanish indolence and inactivity 
that requires heating before she will rouse to vigorous action, for as yet I 
discover but feeble efforts. Let us look at Home where matters are more 
pleasing from the successes of the present Campaign and if we pursue 
our advantage [it] will place us in a respectable situation before the 
Negotiators at the Congress when they convene and if you shall be able 
to push the point at N. Y. and be ultimately crowned with success, I shall 
be very indifferent abt. Spanish or Dutch alliances especially the first ; as I 
confess I do not relish their behavior to us on more occasions than one. 
but enough of this. We have had much debate abt. Vermont — nothing yet 
determined, but think it will terminate in appointing persons to settle with 
them the terms of their admission into the Union 

Phila: 5thAugt. 1781. 

230. The President of Congress to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

<-,. Philada. August 7, 1 78 1. 

Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith copies of divers letters 
announcing the motions of Lord Cornwallis's Army to be for Baltimore 
or the head of Chesapeake. These Letters came to hand yesterday, and the 
General and the President of Delaware are both furnished with copies. 
The Enemy, I suspect from the intercepted letter of Lord G. Germaine to 
Sir Henry Clinton of the 7th febr'y last, have still some hopes of being 
joined by the Tories and Traitors of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Mary- 
land; but I flatter myself they will now find but few of this description." 

231. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

I was yesterday honored with your Letter of the 2d Instant, and com- 
municated it with the Inclosures immediately to Congress. 

[229] ^^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters of Joseph Jones, p. 85. 

2 Washington's letters to Jones Aug. 2 and 10 have not been found. With regard 
to the intercepted letters see no. 200, ante. 

[230]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 55. 

2 " N. B. A similar letter to President Rodney" (note to original). See no. 231, 
post. 

[231]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 54; 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 71 (draft). 



August, 178 1 169 

Re-iterated Complaints from our unfortunate Prisoners at New-York, 
whose Treatment is cruel beyond Description and their Situation really 
deplorable, gave Rise to the Act of Congress of the 3d Instant, a Copy 
of which is inclosed herewith. How their Distresses will be alleviated is 
difficult to tell : Humanity to the Enemy Prisoners seems to be no longer 
a Virtue : Retaliation through the Medium of the Simsbury Mines,^ may 
possibly awaken them to a Sense of Duty. 

By the last Accounts from Maryland, the Fleet with Lord Cornwallis 
amounting to near forty Sail, and having on Board (it is supposed) near 
three thousand Troops, had proceeded on the ist Instant from Hampton 
Road towards Anapolis: His Lordship himself was said to remain at 
Portsmouth, and two Men of War and eight Transports in Hampton 
Road. Governor Lee had on Saturday last six hundred Regulars at 
Annapolis, and was collecting the Militia ; he appears to be in good Spirits. 
This Intelligence has been sent to the Presidents of Delaware and Penn- 
sylvania.^ Can this Manoeuvre be to draw the Marquis's Forces on this 
Side James River, in Order to facilitate the March of the Horse to South 
Carolina; or is it for the Purpose of collecting Provisions and Forage 
before they proceed for New York; or can they flatter themselves with 
Conquest thro' any Assistance promised by the disaffected near the Head 
of the Bay, which Lord George Germaine alludes to in his letter of the 
7th of Feby. last to Sir Henry Clinton : If the latter was expected, or even 
the Recovery of their Prisoners at Lancaster or York-town, I should 
suppose Lord Cornwallis would have acted in Person.* As soon as any 
thing more is known respecting this Movement I shall inform your Excel- 
lency of it. 

Philadelphia August 7th, 1781. 

232. A Committee of Congress to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Augt. 7th, 1781. 

When the important objects, which engage yr. Excellencys attention, 
will permit you to consider the enclos'd resolve of Congress, the Comittee 
will be glad to receive your opinion, and Sentiments, on the Subject of it.' 

2 The copper mines at Simsbury, Conn. Mar. 23 Congress had ordered the officers 
of the Convention troops to be removed to Simsbury and " stationed there or at such other 
place, as the Executive of that State shall think proper within the said State ". See no. 41, 
ante. A memorial of the town of Branford to Governor Trumbull June 25. 1782, pro- 
posing methods of disposing of a certain class of offenders, declared that " if it ware in the 
dreary abodes in Symsbury we shall chearf ully acquies ". Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, 
seventh ser., III. 362. 

3 The intelligence came through a letter of Aug. 4 from Governor Lee of Maryland, 
read in Congress Aug. 6. Cj. no. 230, ante. 

* Concerning the intercepted letters see no. 200, ante. Aug. i a motion to appoint 
a committee to inquire into the facts (relative to Vermont) mentioned in Germain's letter 
of Feb. 7 to Sir Henry Clinton was rejected. See the Journals, Aug. 7, and nos. 235, 237, 
239, post. 

[232]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed by Daniel Carroll, " Chairman 
of the Committee"). 

2 The resolve was probably that of July 26 creating the committee of conference. 
A copy of that resolve in Carroll's writing is in the Washington Papers. See no. 227, ante, 
no. 247, post. 

IS 



]70 Continental Congress 

233. The Georgia Delegates to George Washington.^ 
<-,. Philadelphia, 7 August, 1781. 

By the journals of Congress we percieve, that an application to Con- 
gress, from the Executive of the state which we have the honor to repre- 
sent, respecting the Exchange of General Elbert, was transmitted to you 
in february last year, in the course of which the Delegates of the state 
repeated the application, ami were honored with your answer. The late 
Cartel established in the southern Department, including all Militia cap- 
tured by either side, prior to a certain day, has given us ground for 
supposing that he is now liberated from his parole. He was a Brigadier 
of the Militia, and acting as such, when he was taken; he was esteemed 
and held as such by the Enemy ; and he signed all official papers, during 
his confinement, in that character.^ We understand that Major Hyrne,' 
the Commissioner on the part of the United States, considers him in- 
cluded: but we would wish to have your Excellency's sentiments upon 
the subject. 

We will farther mention, that the case of Governor Wright was lately 
taken up in Congress, with a view of exchanging him for General Elbert ; 
but upon the prospect of a general Cartel taking place, it was not prose- 
cuted. It is possible that this case might have had some influence in bring- 
ing about a general Exchange.* .... 

234. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

.... The repeal of the resolutions permiting the trafic of Bermuda 
with these States was the consequence of mature deliberation, and to 
prevent those abuses which had crept in under the indulgence, and would 
have been dishonorable in the States any longer to countenance, perhaps 
the j>eculiar situation of our State may, as was lately done in favor of 
South Carolina, induce Congress to grant passes for a few Vessells for 
the importation of Salt only, we shall endeavour to obtain this permission 
for the State and if we are successful will loose no time in transmitting 
the Pasports of yr. Excellency.^ .... 

Phila. 7th Augt. 1 78 1. 

[233]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (signed by Walton and Howly). 

2 The resolve relative to Col. Samuel Elbert, who was also brigadier-general of 
Georgia militia, was passed Feb. 11, 1780, and transmitted to Washington by the President 
in a letter of Feb. 12, to which Washington replied Feb. 23. 

3 Maj. Edmund Hyrne, aide-de-camp to General Greene. 

* The Journals contain no mention of this matter. Washington's reply to this 
letter, Aug. 13, is in the Washington Papers (draft). 

[234]! Collection of the late D. McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. The letter is signed 
by Jones, Madison, Bland, and Randolph. 

2 Governor Nelson ^yrote to the delegates July 26 : " The more I reflect on the 
Resolve of Congress respecting the Bermudians the greater my concern is, well knowing 
that from them we had the only prospect 6i supplying this state with the necessary article 
of salt" (Official Letters, III. 12). See the Journals, Mar. 16 (motion of Madison), 26, 
27 (ordinance relative to the capture and condemnation of prizes) ; cf. no. 43, ante, nos. 248^ 
256, 257, 262, 266, post. The Bermudian question had evidently been stirred to some 
extent in the preceding autumn. See vol. V., no. 550. For some account of an earlier 
stage of the problem (i779) see vol. IV., pp. 164, 175, 181, 195, 200, 218. 



August, 1/8 1 171 

235. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 7th Augst. 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

When we arrived here we found the Business of Vermont in a manner 
settled. A final Decision has been suspended in point of form in expec- 
tation of our Presence and we believe even of our Assent to the Recog- 
nition of the New State. All that passed last Winter at Albany had 
preceeded us, and made the Impression which may naturally be supposed, 
we therefore found it necessary to cut off all Enquiries doubts and Expec- 
tations by communicating our Instructions which we did in the most 
solemn form by the Act of which we have the Honour to inclose your 
Excellency a Copy.^ There are several Drafts on the Table for settling 
the Business each specifying or implying the Independance of Vermont, 
from the inclosed Paper containing Lord G Germains Letter to General 
Sir Henry Clinton your Excellency will perceive the Progress some of 
the leading Men in that District have already made in a Coalition with 
the Enemy : and the Danger of their extending their Encroachments and 
spreading Disaffection to our Cause. Those who were formerly most 
averse to a Decision are now active to promote it : but the Time is come 
when they can place their Principles on some Ground, and oppose Ex- 
pediency and publick safety to Justice and Right.' .... 

236. John Sullivan to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 7th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The affair of Vermont has been in agitation a Long time nothing as 
yet determined on but I am Convinced the Result will be a recognition 
of its Independance Limiting it by the West Bank of Connecticut River. 
A Committee will be appointed to Settle the Terms upon which they may 
be received. A Report of this kind is now on the Table and will be con- 
sidered in two or three Days.^ after it is determined I shall set out for 
Home as I have formerly notified you. I am sorry to inform you that 
in order to pay off my arrears and defray Expences Home I shall be in 
want of a hundred pounds Lawful money and not being able to Sell a Bill 
at two months Sight have been compelled to Sell one at ten Days Sight, 
which should not have done had it been possible to Avoid it. If any 
Difficulty should Arise I hope to be at Home before the time of payment 
Arrives to prevent any injurious Consequences 

1235]! N. Y. State Lib.. Clinton Papers, no. 3878 (in Duane's writing, signed by Duane 
and L Hommedieu) ; ibid.. Legislative Papers, no. 2431 (in L'Hommedieu's writing) ; 
Clinton Papers, VII. 174. 

2 The memorial is no. 228, ante. 

8 See the Journals, July 20, 30, Aug. 1-3, 7, 8, and nos. 224, 225, ante, 236-239, post. 
President McKean's letter, Aug. 8, transmitting the act respecting the New Hampshire 
Grants, together with other acts of Aug. 7, is in Clinton Papers, VIL 176. Ginton's reply, 
Aug. 25, is ibid., p. 254. 

[236P N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, X. 26. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 7, 8 ; also no. 23s, ante, nos. 237-239, 244, post. 



172 Continental Congress 

237. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia August 7, 1781. 

Dear Sir, 

.... We have been long disputing abt. Vermont — nothing is decided. 
However the event will be, as I conjecture, to make the grants west of the 
river independent. The main point now is how to quiet the remainder. 
Congress is vastly changed since I was here in Feb. 1780. And I have 
been told in congress, when insisting to have the grants wholly annexed 
to Kewhampshire, that I did not speak the wish or voice of my state. 
My business now is if possible to secure the grants east of the river. We 
shall proceed in the business I suppose today and tomorrow genl. Sullivan 
sets out for Newhampshire by whom you will be more fully informed.* 
If this business should end before November, as I hope it will, my wish 
is to be then relieved. It would be tedious for me to return i8th Jany. the 
time my appointment expires, and as tedious for the delegate that should 
be chosen to relieve me. I shall draw on you for £100 consistent with my 
letter of the 24th of July which gave you 2 months notice. Genl. Sullivan 
will bring you a set of Journals 

I should be glad of your sentiment on the subject of returning home 
in the fall, for altho I most ardently long to leave this expensive sultry 
place I mean to be governed by the pleasure of the court. 



238. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, August 7th, 1781. 
Sir, 

A resolution has this day been passed by Congress for appointing a Com- 
mittee of five to confer with such person or persons as shall be appointed 
by the people inhabiting the N. Ham [p] shire grants, on the west side 
of Connecticut River, respecting their claim to be an independent State, 
and on what terms they may be admitted into the federal union of these 
States, in case the United States in Congress assembled shall determine 
to recognize their independence, and a recommendation to the people of 
Vermont to send agents to Philadelphia, authorized and instructed to 
confer with said Committee on the matters aforesaid, and to agree to, 
and ratify terms and articles of union. ^ Nothing very material of a public 
nature except the common executive business has passed since the joynt 
letter from the delegates. Our affairs at the Southward are as prosperous 
as can be expected ; Ninety Six is evacuated by the enemy. I enclose this 
day's paper. I shall soon be destitute of money. I hope some will be sent 
by the first safe opportunity. 

[337]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 29. 
2 See nos. 235, 236, ante, 238, 239, 244, post. 
.[238]iMass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., HI. 261. 
2 See nos. 235, 237, ante, no. 239, post. 



August, 1 78 1 173 

239. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia 9th August 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

We had the Honour of addressing your Excellency by the last Post. 
You will observe by the enclosed Act that it is in Effect decided to recog- 
nize the Independance claimed by the people of the Grants. Nothing re- 
mains in our Apprehension but the Formalities unless they shoud refuse 
to go back to their first Limits ; or to* subscribe to the Confederacy. We 
shall endeavour to get our remaining territorial Rights expressly guarran- 
teed by a precise Description agreeably to the Terms of Cession heretofore 
executed under our Act of Legislature. The Sacrifice of Jurisdiction 
which we suffer under an Opinion that it is necessary for the general 
Tranquillity and Safety will be an Inducement with many to gratify us, 
We hope with a Majority.^ 

Congress have readily come into your Excellencys Ideas respecting the 
Depredations of our neighbours on Long Island. We enclose their Act 
on this Subject and flatter ourselves that it will prove efficacious.' 

240. The New York Delegates to Udny Hay.^ 

Phil.\d. 9 Augt. 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

Your dispatches on the Subject of the Forage in Westchester County 
were received and immediately communicated to Congress. They had 
been preceded by the Quarter Master General's Representation by only 
a day or two. The whole are referred to a special Committee of Congress ; 
and we shall not fail to urge a speedy decision.^ 

We have an instruction from the legislature on the subject of your 
Accounts : and beg to know in what Situation they remain and to be 
informed of any plan you may have proposed for the Settlement of the 

[239]! N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duane Papers, V. 341 (draft, in the writing of Duane and 
bearing the initials of Duane and L'Hommedieu) ; N. Y. State Lib., Legislative Papers, 
no. 2432 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 183. 

- See nos. 224, 225, 235, 237, ante; also the Journals, Aug. 7, 8. 14, 16, 17, 20. 21, 
and nos. 244, 249, 252-255, 260, 261, 268-270, 284, post. 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 7, and no. 225, ante. President McKean transmitted to 
Governor Ointon Aug. 8 the resolution of Aug. 7 respecting the commissions issued by 
Governor Trumbull (see no. 251, post) and that of the same date respecting Vermont, 
remarking, " The political expedience of this last measure will, I flatter myself, render it 
not unacceptable to your State, and I trust it will therefore meet your Excellency's appro- 
bation and support" (Clinton Papers, VIL 176). Qinton's reply to President McKean, 
Aug. 25, is ibid., p. 251. 

[240P N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 349 (draft). 

- The despatches mentioned were laid before Congress Aug. 3 and referred to the 
board of war, to be considered in connection with a letter from Quartermaster-General 
Pickering dated July 27 (see the Journals, Aug. i). The board reported Aug. 8, when 
the whole matter was referred to a special committee, as mentioned in this letter. The 
special committee made a report Aug. 9, which was taken into consideration Aug. 23 and 
recommitted. Definite action was taken Sept. 7. See nos. 247, 260, 302-304, post. Some 
letters of Udny Hay to Pickering and Governor Ointon, July 25-26, relative to this affair, 
are in Clinton Papers, VH. 127-134, and a letter from Clinton to Hay Aug. i is ibid., p. 154. 
Further correspondence relative to the affair is found ibid., pp. 213-224, 246, 248, 255. 



174 Continental Congress 

same as no letters from you on that subject are to be found at the Treasury 
Board. It woud not be difficult to obtain an advance of money for the 
Artificers if the Money were not exhausted. Our Anxiety for these our 
suffering Fellow Citizens is inexpressible. 

241. James Lovell to Mrs. Abigail Adams.^ 

Aug. 10, 1 78 1. 

.... I have made Communications to Mr. S. A. if not to you that 
will answer all those Questions which you was restrained from asking 
thro' Fear of Rivington. I do really think that no pique or ill Will against 
your Mr. A — exists here. Whatever has been done that can excite a 
Suspicion of the Kind has sprung out of mistaken principles of general 
policy. I am not induced to suppose La Luzerne otherways than friendly 
and respectful ; But when he has, agreably to what Vergennes wrote to 
him, desired Instructions to our Negotiator to act cordially and unre- 
servedly with those of France, the Measures adopted here, in Consequence, 
have exceeded his Expectations.^ 

I wish you not to suffer any Vexation of Mind beyond what I do my- 
self. There is no such Idea here as any Criminality in Mr. A — , he is much 
esteemed. But such is the uncouth way of proceeding here at Times that 
unintended Chagrin must arise. Doctr. F — is experiencing very much 
I am persuaded on the appointment of J Laurens. It is therefore that he 
has asked for Retirement rather than because of his age 

242. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry. ^ 

Aug. 10. 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

When I have been asked here regularly and anxiously, for many Weeks 
back, whether I had not given you Offence I answered preremptorily [sic'] 
no. But now that the Question is put to me whether you have not taken 
Offence against me the answer becomes foreign. The Question is there- 
fore submitted to the Tribunal where alone it can be answered. The 
Imagination of the Querists supposes the Ground of offence to be dis- 
covered in your printed Letter where you use your in Preference to my — 
" nothing shall be wanting on my part to serve the interest of yourself 
and your amiable Friend["].^ 

[241]! Adams MSS., Boston. 
2 See no. 166, note 2, ante. 

[242]^ Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison, of Harvard University. 

2 Tiie allusion is to a letter from Gerry to Lovell Ma}' 20, which was intercepted 
and printed in the Royal Gazette of June g. In this letter Gerry says : 

" Your several favours of April 3d, with 17th, 23d, and 31st, are at hand, and I am at a 
loss what to say to you on the subject of the negociation which you formerly proposed. 
[Here follows a discussion of the problems and doubts respecting the disposition of cer- 
tain moneys.] I am in hopes that the apprehensions of the people will so far subside, 
as to enable me to accomplish my purposes ; be that as it may, you may be assured that 
nothing shall be wanting on my part to serve the interest of yourself and your (our) 
amiable friend. Is it not high time for the People to know on what principles the con- 
tinental currency is emitted? If each state is at liberty to comply or not with the requisi- 
tion of Congress, respecting it, there is an end of your paper emissions, and the sooner 
they subside the better, for the continuance of them can only tend to destroy the little 
confidence which the people have in the public credit " 



August, 1781 1T5 

you have not been pleased to own the Receipt of mine of May 8, 8/9. 
14, 29, June 14 26 goes now July 13, and perhaps more, tho the last 
might have been in hand so as to be answered last post. 

If you should see Genl. Sullivan you would get all our evil-deeds for 
3 months back, you must take them at second hand from Mr. S A ' who 
will see the Genl. Lee's Corps have had known Success against Rawdon's 
Parties so as to make us confirmed that Something very fine has taken 
place at Monk's Corner. Genl. Green at the date of his Letter reed. Today 
knew not the Proceedings of the Party sent thither but the Flaggs in a 
short Passage say the Post was ruined by our People. 

Am I to give up all hope of offensive opperations on the North River 
to the defective Quotas of New England? God forbid. 

I am greatly baulked in not hearing from you the Comments made upon 
the published Letter of May 20. Here they say I was speculating. But 
indeed very few saw or took Interest in the Reading of the Budget catched 
at that Time. 

R R Livingston was yesterday chosen Secy, for for: affairs, and a 
Com'tee was the day before chosen to find from agents of Vermont their 
Expectations and Designs in case we recognize them. 

This is more graceless now than it would have been some time ago but 
N Y and N H were not then ripe for it. 

yrs affectionately 

243. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

Philad. loth August 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

This Morning Chancellor Livingston was Elected Minister for foreign 
Afairs — an appointment which will be very agreeable to the foreign courts 
in our Friendship on account of his Rank, Connections and abilities.^ 

Nothing else has occurred since our last worthy of your Excellency's 
attention. 

In his letter to Gerry Oct. 2 (no. 333, post) Lovell remarks, " It gives me much Pleasure 
to find that 'your' was a Misprint". In his letter to Gerry Feb. 20 (see no. 9, note 3, 
ante) Lovell speaks of " Miss Dalley " in a connection which makes it fairly evident that 
she is the " amiable friend " referred to in later letters. Some light on the transactions 
in her behalf may be gathered from omitted passages in Lovell's letters of Mar. 16, 20, and 
27 (nos. 28, 31, 43, 43.^^, ante). In 1778 the Massachusetts delegates resided in the house 
of a Miss Dally (or Dalley). See vol. III., pp. 349, 533. 

3 Samuel Adams, who had left Congress in April. The meaning is doubtless that 
Adams would tell Gerry what Lovell had written him concerning proceedings in Congress 
(see no. 241, ante). Sullivan was just then returning to New Hampshire. See no. 236, 
ante. 

* The letter is addressed. " The Hon'ble Elbridge Gerry Boston or Marblehead 
Care of S A Otis Esqr. Boston favd. by the Cheval'r J P Jones " ; and on the margin 
of the address is the following, " Boston 12th Oct 1781 This day reed, and forw'd by Your 
most Ifl Ser't Saml. A. Otis ". 

[343]! From the collection of Mr. Fred M. Steele of Chicago, obtained through the 
courtesy of Professor M. W. Jernegan of the University of Chicago. The letter bears 
the signatures of Duane and L'Hommedieu. 

2 Congress had provided Jan. 10 for a department of foreign affairs, but had post- 
poned the election from time to time. See the Journals, Jan. 17, Feb. 7, 9, June 13 ; also 
no. 265, post. 



176 Continental Congress 

244. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.* 

Philadelphia ii Augt 1781. 
.... If 1 can procure the Establishment of our remaining Limits by 
express bounds and under especial Guarantee of the United States my 
labour will not be in vain and I shall return home with great satisfaction. 
The Doctrine that our jurisdiction over Vermont is to be sacrifised for 
the publick Tranquility is pretty fully established, what happened in the 
Legislature at Albany last winter proceeded [sic] us, and it was ever ex- 
pected that we came prepared to execute or surrender. We were not 
however deterred from doing our duty agreeably to our express Instruc- 
tions. We are endeavoring to avail ourselves of the advantages which 
may arise by the impressions which this Determination only Justified by 
the plea of necessity must create.^ .... 

245. Thomas McKean to George Washington.* 

Private. 
Sir, 

By a vessel from Cadiz last night we are informed, that our Minister 
at the Spanish court, as late as the nth June," had made but little prog- 
ress in a negociation with them; they still appear friendly, but aim at 
cessions we cannot make; they give encouragement respecting money at 
sometimes, again they are disappointed and cannot promise any thing cer- 
tain ; they have however given Mr. Jay liberty to accept Bills to the amount 
of One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars, but have no known funds 
appropriated for the payment. In short their conduct appears rather in- 
sincere and mysterious. Our public dispatches are intercepted; or ob- 
structed in so much, that a free correspondence is almost impracticable. 
Mr. Gardoqui was to sett oflf from Madrid for Philadelphia sometime in 
June; but his intentions of coming here have been so often announced, and 
the delay not accounted for, that Mr. Jay will say nothing about him 
hereafter, until he has actually sailed. 

France acts a truly friendly part. We shall certainly obtain from her, 
this year, twenty millions of livres; four of which will be retained for 

Arthur Lee wrote to Samuel Adams Aug. 13 : " Chancellor Livingston, after much 
manouvering was of friday last elected Minister for foreign Affairs. Upon the first vote, 
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Jersey, Delaware and Virginia were for Mr. Lee, and three 
for the Chancellor. On the second Virginia was prevaild on to throw away its vote, and 
the Chancellor had Hamps'e, R. Island, N. York, Jersey, S. Carolina and Georgia. Dr. 
Witherspoon stayd away and his Colleagues changd sides. On the third day, Mr. Smith 
of this State, with his senses hardly recoverd from a fall that took them away entirely, 
was brought in and with Mr. Clymer carried the Election" (N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Samuel 
Adams Papers; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IIL 447, dated Aug. 12). 
See nos. 283, 299, post. 

[244] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Collection, Livingston Papers, IL 249 (extract). 
2 See no. 239, ante. 

[245]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, 
I. 80 (draft) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), HL 378; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
IV. 629. 

2 A letter from Jay, May 29, and two from Carmichael, June 2 and 11, were read 
in Congress Aug, 13, The two first mentioned are ibid., IV. 459, 466. 



August, 178 1 177 

Doctor Franklin, to discharge the interest on Loan Office Certificates; 
two supplied in military stores etc. and the residue be subject to the direc- 
tions of Congress. I have the strongest reasons to believe that Colonel 
Laurens is now on the Ocean, and has with him two millions and an 
half of this money in specie : I pray most sincerely for his safe arrival." 



Philadelphia, August 12, 1781. 

246. Thomas McKean to Richard Henry Lee.* 

Dear Sir, 

My friends will, I know, excuse me from writing long letters during 
my present employment, but I cannot excuse myself for omitting this 
favorable opportunity by Doctor Arthur Lee of paying my devoirs to 
you. The Doctor's affairs are terminated, as far as relates to Accounts, 
nearly satisfactorily,* with this exception that he has not received any 
part of the sum due to him. For the rest I must refer you to himself, 
assuring you that those members of Congress, who know you, him and 
your worthy brother Francis, and your strenuous exertions in the cause 
of America from the commencement of the contest, still retain the warm- 
est and most disinterested friendship for each of you 

we are at present very low, with respect to finance, but it is with infinite 
pleasure I can inform you, that we have very fair prospects on that head 
from abroad as well as at home. France has lately given further proof, 
that she is a faithful Ally : I cannot be more particular. Spain continues 
to act an interested and mysterious part, but must in the end close with 
us. The United Provinces of the Netherlands appear to be very friendly, 
but they are tedious in deliberation and slow in execution 

Philadelphia, August 13th 1781. 

247. Robert Morris and Richard Peters to George Washington.* 

Camp 13th Augt. 1781. 
Sir, 

The Orders of Congress which we have the Honour to communicate 
directing us to confer with your Excellency on the Subject of the proposed 
Numbers and arrangements of the Army for the next Campaign not 
having pointed out the Reasons inducing the Measure, we have the Honour 
to lay before you our Ideas on the Subject so far as we are acquainted 
with the Matter from a Conference at which we were present in Phila- 

' The letter continues with a discussion of the proposed peace congress at Vienna 
and other aspects of the international situation, also with a relation of the latest naval 
and military intelligence. 

[246] 1 Hist. See. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 81 (endorsed by McKean, "private — 
Copy of a Letter to Col. Richard H. Lee Esquire"). 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6. Lee's reply to this letter, Aug. 25, is in Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), IL 246. 

[247]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 381 ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 631. 



178 Continental Congress 

delphia, had by a Committee of Congress, the Subscriber as Superin- 
tendant of Finance and the Board of War pursuant to a Resolution of 
Congress with a Copy of which your Excellency has been furnished.' 
After the full Conversation with which we were honoured the 12th inst. 
it is unnecessary to enter at large into those Reasons or to urge the press- 
ing Necessity of Oeconomizing our Affairs so as to make our Revenues 
in a great Degree meet our Expenses. Your Excellency must be equally 
Sensible with us of this Necessity and we are perfectly convinced you are 
equally disposed to assist in every Measure tending to promote so desirable 
an Object. You are also impressed with the Impolicy of calling on the 
States for Men or Money in Numbers and Quantities so extensive as to 
alarm the timid and to excite among men the Zealous and considerate 
Ideas of the Impracticability of carrying on the War upon such Terms. 
Demands of this nature instead of animating to Exertions are only pro- 
ductive of hopeless Languor. Your mortifying Experience of the inade- 
quate Compliance heretofore with former Demands will explain the 
Motives inducing to the Expediency of moderating those Demands so as 
to render them productive and in Case of Failure to leave the delinquent 
State without excuse. Your Excellency has doubtlessly considered that 
the Class of Men who are willing to become Soldiers is much diminished 
by the War and therefore the Difficulties of raising an Army equal to 
former Establishments have increased and will continue to increase and 
embarrass the States in their Measures for filling up their Quotas should 
the mode of recruiting the Army be continued in the present Line. You 
will also have considered that the Enemy proixjrtionably debilitated by 
the War are incapable of opposing to us the Force we originally had to 
encounter and therefore the Necessity of such extensive Levies as we 
formerly raized seems to be in some Measure superseded. In what Degree 
the Forces of these States should be decreased we do not pretend to de- 
termine leaving this to your Excellency's better judgment. But from past 
Experience it should seem that the States are incapable of bringing into 
the Field an Army equal to that called for by the last Arrangement. Or 
if all the Demands of Congress on the States become merely pecuniary 
it does not seem probable that they can or will furnish Money for raizing, 
equipping and supporting such an army. We should be happy were we 
capable from any Information we are possessed of to assist your Excel- 
lency in the Investigation of the Subject with Respect to the probable 
Designs or force of the Enemy the next Campaign. This must in its 
Nature depend upon Contingencies at present even beyond Conjecture. 
At this Time therefore in our Apprehension the only solid Ground of 
Procedure is to consider what Force these States under present Circum- 
stances are capable of producing. 

Having thus in general mentioned the Ideas which have arisen on the 
Subject we beg to leave the Matter to your Excellency's Consideration 
and take the Liberty of proposing the following Queries after further 
mentioning that it has been conceived it would be expedient in Case of 

2 Morris and Peters were serving as members of the mixed commission appointed 
July 26 and 31 to confer with the commander-in-chief on the arrangement of the army. 
See nos. 227, 232, ante, 265, 271, 395, 403, post. 



Augiist, 1781 179 

Reform to lessen the Numbers of Regiments so as to make fewer Com- 
missioned Officers necessary and to increase the Numbers of Non Com- 
missioned Officers and Privates in those Regiments. It has been supposed 
that a considerable Saving would ensue from this Measure by not having 
so many Officers in full Pay with their Horses, Servants, Baggage and 
other consequential Expenses in the Field, or if they remain in Quarters 
from Want of Command they are in a situation disagreeable to their 
own Feelings and uselessly expensive to the public.^ We presume that 
Gentlemen qualified for Staff Officers might be found among the retiring 
Officers and that Artificers and other Persons employed by the Staff De- 
partment should not enter into the present Calculation as the Officers at 
the Heads of those Departments should be enabled to carry on their Busi- 
ness without taking Men from the Line — a practice introduced from 
Necessity, very prejudicial to Discipline, and productive of pernicious 
Consequences by diminishing the effective Force of the Army. 

Query, i. Is a Reduction of the Numbers of Officers and Men as 
fixed by the last Arrangement of the Army expedient or proper? 

2. How can this Reduction be brought about consistently with the Good 
of the Service and what Arrangement should be made in Consequence of 
this Reduction? 

The Answers to the above Queries will no Doubt include the Numbers 
of Men necessary for the next Campaign and the Organization of them 
so as to designate the Number of Regiments and the Ntimbers in those 
Regiments both of Commissioned and Non Commissioned Officers and 
Privates as well regimentally as by Companies. The Expediency of having 
fewer Regiments of Horse and Artillery and of consolidating the inde- 
pendent Corps will also we presume come under your Excellency's Con- 
sideration. 

3d. What Periods of Enlistment under present Circumstances are most 
proper to be adopted? 

4th. What Regulations can be made to modify the Practice of taking 
Soldiers from the Line as Servants to Officers? On this head we beg 
Leave to submit to your Opinion a Copy of a Motion made in Congress 
on this Subject.* 

5. What is to be done with Officers by Brevet or those who have no 
particular Command? Can they not be placed in the Regiments or retire 
on Half pay? 

6. Would it be practicable consistently with Justice and the Good of 
the Service to call into actual Service Officers who have retired on half 
Pay, by the former Arrangement to fill Vacancies happening in the Lines 
to which they respectively belong? ^ 

^ The clause following " Want of Command " is not in the printed text. 

* Some regulations with regard to furloughs had been adopted June 16. Sparks 
quotes here, as the motion alluded to, one offered by Varnum, although no date is given. 
The motion is as follows : " Resolved, that no officer be permitted to take with him on 
furlough any soldier, without receiving the permission of the Commander-in-Chief or the 
Commanding Officer of a separate department ; and that the Board of War take order 
that all soldiers, now retained from the army in either department as waiters to officers, 
immediately join their respective corps." 

5 The letter is signed, " Robt. Morris S. I. of Finance Richard Peters Member of 
the board of War". Washington's reply, Aug. 21. is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 347, 



180 Continental Congress 

248. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Phila: Augt. 14th, 1781. 
S'r, 

We have your favor of the 27th ulto.^ The Delegates moved in Con- 
gress for a resolution to furnish our State with some passports for Vessells 
to import Salt only from Bermuda and load with Indian Corn and flour 
in return. The motion meeting opposition was committed and no Report 
is yet made. We shall hasten this business all we can and use our best 
endeavours to support it.^ .... 

It is with reluctance we request your Excellency to press the Agent to 
send forward supplies for our Support — Necessity alone could induce us 
again to mention it ; but we feel for the honor of the State as well as for 
ourselves upon this occasion, and wish to avoid every Mode of supply that 
may be disagreeable to either. 

249. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Aug'st 14th 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

I have your favor of the 6th inst. before me.^ .... 

The controversy relating to the district called Vermont, the inhabitants 
of which have for several years claimed and exercised the jurisdiction 

(ed. Sparks), VIII. 142. See also sundry letters of Morris, Aug. 2-23, in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Corr., IV. 616, 621, 622, 650, 651, 654. A letter from Richard Peters to President 
McKean, also written Aug. 13 (at " Camp "), casts light on the matter to which it particu- 
larly relates (see the Journals, Aug. i, 3, 8, 9, 23, Sept. 7, and no. 240, ante). Following 
is the essential part of the letter : " There were some Papers referred to the Board of 
War relative to a Dispute between the Qr. M'r Genl. and a Number of claimants of forage 
on the Lands recovered from the Enemy by the Approach of our Convoy toward N. York. 
From the Sentiments of the Board when I left Philad'ia it appeared they intended to send 
back the papers to Congress without giving an Opinion. Should this be the Case the 
Matter will probably be decided in a Report from a Committee of Congress. I find on 
Enquiry that Col. Pickering was never averse to the Matter being settled on reasonable 
Terms and that the greater Part of the People are well inclined but uneasinesses have 
been fomented from the personal Views of Some who are unfriendly to Col. Pickering. 
Possibly Congress will determine that the Demands shall be ascertained and the Amount 
paid when the Public Circumstances will permit. I have therefore taken the Liberty 
confidentially to mention the Matter to you that you may be pleased so far as you are to 
have the Determination of Congress put on such a Footing as to the Manner of Expression 
that Justice may be done to the People without throwing any Slurs on Col. Pickering's 
Conduct. This I am sure Congress are not disposed to do because they must be sensible 
that it is necessary to support their Officers so far as they are right and I am so far from 
seeing any Cause of Censure that I am convinced Col. P's Conduct proceeded from the 
best Motives. But a coldness of Expression or any Mode of doing the Business which 
tends to cast an Imputation upon his Conduct will only gratify his Enemies without being 
of the least Service to the public." Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 82. 

[248] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones and Bland) ; Cat. Va. State 
Papers, II. 330. 

2 Nelson's letter, dated July 26, is in Official Letters, III. 12. 
^ The motion, though undefined, is mentioned in the Journals Aug. 9. The report 
of the committee appointed upon it was brought in Aug. 14, and action was taken upon it 
the same day. See no. 234, ante, no. 266, post. 

[249]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081; Writings, I. 130; Papers, 
I. 96; Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, II. 57; Vt. Recs., II. 312. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Aug. 6 is in Mass. Hist. Soc. Proceedings, second ser., 
XIX. 138, He refers therein to " the loss of the mail in or near Wilmington ". The omitted 



August, 178 1 181 

of an Independant State, is at length put into a train of speedy decision. 
Notwithstanding the objections to such an event, there is no question but 
they will soon be established into a separate and federal State. A re- 
linquishment made by Massachusetts of her claims, a despair of finally 
obtaining theirs on the part of N. Y. and N. H., the other claimants, on 
whom these enterprising adventurers were making fresh encroachments, 
the latent support afforded them by the leading people of the N. E. States 
in general from which they emigrated, the just ground of apprehension 
that their rulers were engaging in clandestine negociations with the enemy, 
and lastly perhaps the jealous policy of some of the little States wch. 
hope that such a precedent may engender a division of some of the large 
ones, are the circumstances which will determine the concurrence of Con- 
gress in this affair,^ 

P. S 



250. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 14: 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I hope long 'ere this Govr. Rutledge is with you. The Gentlemen 
from St. Augustine are all safe arrived here, as likewise, are those from 
Chs. Town. None of them will remain here one hour longer than is in- 
dispensibly necessary ; as soon as they can get their families accommodated 
in such manner as to place them beyond absolute want, they have all agreed 
to set out immediately for their own country, for this purpose, the Dele- 
gates of So. Carolina are negotiating a loan of 30,(xx> Dollars, and have 
applied also, to the generously disposed to contribute by their donations 
to the relief of these distressed, and magnanimous people. We have met 
with great success in both applications, and are in hopes to administer 
such relief to them, as will render their situations comfortable, tho' not 
affluent. I have great expectations from their arrival in their own country. 
They are mostly men of the first fortunes, and influence there, and will 
be able to give the Governor such substantial support, as will be productive 
of the most happy effects. The reestablishing of civil government in that 
country, is of the utmost consequence in the present situation of our 
affairs.* I keep my eye constantly towards the manuvreing's in Europe : 

portions of Madison's letter relate to the movements of the enemy, news brought by a 
vessel just arrived from Cadiz, and by another vessel " just come up from the W. Indies ". 

3 See nos. 239, 244, ante. 
[350]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, July 2^, Aug. lo ; cf. ibid., Aug. 27-30, Sept. 18. Edward Rut- 
ledge wrote to Washington on the same day : 

" The Congress seem disposed to avail themselves of our late situation, and have desired 
that we will furnish them with an authentic account of the conduct of the enemy, from the 
surrender of Charleston to the time of our exchange, with a view, as we are told, of 
retaliating. But, to particularize one half of their cruelty and injustice, is beyond the reach 
of human labor. However, their most flagrant and atrocious acts of violence and oppres- 
sion will be pointed out ; and if the Congress should retain their present sentiments, they 
will soon possess materials, not only to justify, but to require and exact (if I may use a 
British officer's expression) 'retaliation with a vengeance'. Yet I imagine they have 



182 Contineutal Congress 

it is on that theatre America's fate must finally be fixed. I expect nothing 
from their present negotiations (indeed it is a doubt with me whether any 
will be entered upon during the present campaign.) The period for the 
great and serious business to be opened will be at the conclusion of this 
campaign ; for should a Congress be previously held, it is natural to sup- 
pose the demands of the parties will be so wild and extravagant, as must 
render them totally inadmissable on either side. It is therefore the events 
of this campaign alone, that can bring them to treat upon any rational 
terms. This observation applies most forcibly to Great Britain : Should 
she be successful her outrageous ambition will lead her to the most insolent 
demands; if the reverse, or if she should be able to gain nothing, they will 
most probably be moderate; and open a fair field for discussion; and 
under the direction of impartial Mediators, holds up the prospect of an 
equitable determination of all disputes.' .... 

25 1 . The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Augt. 14th, 1781. 
Sir, 

We are honoured with your Excellency's letter of the 4th of this month, 
enclosing copies of an Act of the Council of Safety for expediting a 
supply of hard money for the Connecticut line of the army, which we are 
very glad to see, and of your Excellency's letter to Governor Clinton 
vindicating the seizure of British goods on Long Island.^ This measure 
he had complained of to Congress as attended with many abuses, and 
particularly dangerous to be pursued while the intended operations should 
be carrying on against New York, which induced Congress to come to 
an advisory resolve upon the matter, a copy of which we herewith inclose. 
We wish, however, for their fuller information on so interesting a subject, 
that they had had the benefit of your Excellency's letter, and shall yet 
lay it before them. 



too much of the milk of human kindness in their composition to bear them through this 
painful, though necessary business. Indeed, warmed as I am by my own sufferings, and 
by what is of infinitely greater consequence, I mean the sufferings of my friends, I am 
persuaded I myself shall not be able to do moderate justice to the injured" (Letters to 
Washington, ed. Sparks, III. 387). See also a letter from Christopher Gadsden to Wash- 
ington Aug. 10 (ibid., p. 376), which gives in particular an account of the imprisonment 
of the South Carolinians. 

David Ramsay, one of the Carolinians then in Philadelphia (in 1782 he returned as a 
delegate to Congress), writing to Gen. Benjamin Lincoln Aug. 13 to express his "sincere 
friendship for and attachment to Gen. Lincoln ", remarked : " Philada. is full of your old 
Carolina friends. I meet many more of the people of that state in the streets here every 
day, than I did in the streets of Charlestown after the surrender." N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Emmet Coll., no. 1260. 

3 The letter from Mathews to Greene Aug. 23 with an addition Aug. 28 (no. 273, 
post), is evidently a continuation of this letter of Aug. 14. The part bearing the date 
Aug. 23 found its way into the William L. Qements Library, but the part here printed is 
not in that repository. 

[251]^ Mass Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 261 (signed by Sherman and 
Ellsworth). 

2 Trumbull's letter to Governor Clinton, July 20, is ibid., p. 248. Clinton's reply, 
Aug. 20, is in Clinton Papers. VII. 234. See the Jmirnals, Aug. 7, and nos. 225, 239, ante. 



August, 178 1 183 

Your Excellency will have received tyfo letters wTitten circular to the 
States by the Superintendant of Finance, solliciting the grant of the 5 
per cent duties heretofore recommended by Congress, and pressing for a 
speedy adjustment of the accounts of supplies and other disbursements 
made by the State. Both of which requests, it appears to us of much 
importance to the publick, and especially the interest of our State, should 
be complied with.' .... 

The Honourable Robert R. Livingston, Esquire, Chancellor of the State 
of New York, is appointed by Congress Secretary of Foreig[n] Affairs. 

We hope some one or more of our delegates will soon arrive and take 
their seats in Congress, as they have been wrote to for that purpose some 
time since, and Mr. Ellsworth, on account of his health and the circum- 
stances of his family and affairs, expects shortly to return home. 



252. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).* 

Philadelphia 14th August 1781. 
Dear Sir, 



P S We find ourselves instructed by the Legislature to press the 
settlement of Col. Hayes accounts, and an advance to our Artificers, etc. 
But we have no information or materials respecting the Accounts on which 
to ground a Representation and as to money the Current Service calls for 
more than can be drawn into the Publick Treasury-. We have written Col. 
Hay to this Effect.' .... 

Since writing what preceeds, a Letter is read in Congress from Fay 
Allen and Woodward enclosing their Commission from Vermont to enter 
into Alliance with the United States.' I suppose the Treaty will be im- 
mediately opened as they are upon the Spot and Congress seem to have 
got over all Objections to their gratification. How we shall act I know 
not. If their Agents shoud be admitted to take Seats as Delegates, can 
we continue not knowing the Sense of our own State? I sincerely wish 
it was the loth of September to rid me of this embarrasment.* 

3 See no. 254, note 2, post. 
[25a] ^N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 3900; Clinton Papers, VII. 200. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6, Sept. 6. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 14. 16. 17, 20. The letter of the Vermont agents, dated 
Aug. 14, with their commission, is in Vt. Recs., II. 316 n. The committee held a conference 
with the Vermont agents (or "delegates") Aug. 18. The proposals of the Vermont 
agents, Aug. 18, are ibid., p. 317; a series of questions propounded by the committee and 
the agents' answers are ibid., p. 318, and no. 261, post. 

* The delegates appear to have had some doubt respecting the termination of the 
period for which they were elected, but had concluded that they were not authorized to 
remain beyond Sept. 10. Qinton suggested that they remain until Oct. 15. See nos. 303, 
304, 326, 327, post. Cf. Clinton's address to the legislature Oct. i. Clinton Papers, VII. 162. 
A brief reply, Aug. 26, to this letter of Duane is ibid., VII. 204. 



184 Continental Congress 

253. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada, Augt. 14, 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

.... By Genl. Sullivan you will be fully informed abt. Vermont; he 
has a copy of the resolution of Congress on that head. Every reasonable 
argument was used to have the territory annexed to N. H. but in vain. 
An act of Massachusetts to relinquish their right and make a new state 
led the way, altho we know they had no right : but it gave colour and 
influence. Congress had also good information that the body of the 
people in N York were willing to do the same, their house of repre- 
s[entati]ves voted it. The fear of Vermont joyning the Brittish, accord- 
ing to Lord Geo Germaine's intercepted letter; and also the fear of a 
civil war, in case of attempting to reduce them to N Y or N H by force, 
had doubtless some weight. All these motives joyned induced Congress 
to yield to motives of policy and expedience rather than rigid J e." 



254. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, 14th Aug. 1781. 
Sir, 

The Super Intendent of Finance has lately written circular Letters to 
the States; Their Contents have been approved by Congress.^ We are 
at a loss to conjecture the reasons wh'ch have induced the State of Rhode 
Island to delay complying with the Requisition of Congress, respecting the 
five per Cent. Duty. This Requisition was so essential to the Adoption 
of a regular, frugal and productive System of Finance, that we cannot 
enter into the necessary Details of a permanent Revenue without realizing 
it. It must be obvious that unless we can call forth the Resources of the 
respective States equally, it will be impossible to execute any great Object, 

[253]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 47. 

2 The word is no doubt " Justice ", 

[254] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 3 (signed by Varnum and 
Mowry) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 349. 

2 Morris had written to each of the states July 16, transmitting a certified copy of 
that state's account (that to Virginia is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers), and he had 
followed this, July 25, with a circular letter respecting the adjustment of these accounts 
(Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IH. 252; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 
601). July 27 he wrote respecting the five-per-cent impost, to the states of Massachu- 
setts, Rhode Island, New York, Delaware, Maryland, and North Carolina, states which 
had not yet granted the impost {ibid., p. 606; Clinton Papers, VII. 138). Aug. 28, 
in response to a reference Aug. 23, he wrote a letter to Congress discussing at length 
the question of the public debts (Wharton, IV. 667), and mentioning that a copy of his 
circular letter of July 25 had been transmitted to Congress Aug. 6. This letter of Aug. 28 
was not however transmitted to Congress until Nov. 5, together with a letter of that day 
further discussing the subject and particularly the resolve of Congress Nov. 2 {ibid., 
p. 822). Cj. no. 251, ante. See also Morris's letter to the speaker of the Pennsylvania 
assembly Sept. 28 (Wharton, IV. 733) ; cj. also nos. 279, 312, post. 

It is pertinent to remark here that the titular designation frequently accompanying 
Morris's signature as printed, namely, " S. J. of Finance ", is an error. Morris wrote 
5". / of Finance, that is. Super- Intendent of Finance, but he used a long /, which many 
editors have interpreted as a /. 



August, 1781 185 

while the states who do most will be the greatest Sufferers. It is as obvious 
that without a permanent Revenue in the Disposal of the United States, 
we can neither fulfil past Ingagements nor obtain future credit. The Re- 
sources of the Country are not sufficient to carry on the War, without 
anticipating the Revenues. This cannot be done Without Credit, nor this 
exist without Funds. We have not a doubt but matters will soon be put 
into such a Train as to settle the public Accounts in equitable Principles. 
Measures are taking by Congress to enable the Financier to adopt such 
Modes, as will do justice to all the States, and remove those unhappy 
Consequences w'ch result from a mutual Jealousy. We must therefore 
beg Liberty [to] urge the Propriety of the Measures, and a compliance 
with them. The Congress have appointed a Committee of five to confer 
with a Committee to be appointed from the State of Vermont, and agree 
upon Terms for admitting them into the Union. Three gentlemen have 
arrived from Vermont, tho' in consequence of powers granted by that 
State previous to the Resolution of Congress.' .... 

255. Daniel Mowry to Daniel Manton.^ 

Philadelphia, 14th Augt. 1781. 

.... Congress appointed a Committee To Convean Consulte and 
agree with a Committee appointed by the State of Varmont on Conditeons 
of Commincing a Sovring Independant State, which last Mentioned Com- 
mittee are arived at Philide, Commissioned for the Purpose aforesaid, 
whereupon it is Probable Varmont will Commince a free Sovring and 
Independant State and Receved into the Union agreeable To Confidera- 
tion of the united States of america ". I am here in Comfortable Health 
find a very agreeable Companion in my Coleague Gen. Varnum who proves 
able To do Justice To the State whom he represents. 

256. The President of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 

(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philada. August 15, 1 78 1,* 
Sir, 

I was honored with your Excellency's letter of the 28th ulto. and laid 
the same before Congress. You will receive inclosed herewith on Act of 
Congress of the 4th [14th] instant, and in consequence thereof sixteen 
blank Passports, in the distribution of which Congress wish you may be as 
particular as possible with respect to the persons you intrust, as they are 

3 See no. 239, note 2, ante, nos. 260, 261, 268, post. 
[355]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 12. 1781 (addressed "To Col. Daniel Manton Rhode Island 
State Johnston"). 

2 See nos. 249, 252-254, ante. 
[256] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 62. 

2 The Pennsylvania Gazette of Aug. 15 contained "A SPEECH which ought to 
have been spoken in Congress upon reading of the last memorial from the Indiana Com- 
pany ". The speech begins : " Mr. President, I rise, Sir, to support the memorial from 
the proprietors of Indiana, which has just now been read in this House." The speech is 
not signed. See the Journals, July 23, 24. 

16 



186 Continental Congress 

apprehensive the thing itself will create some uneasiness in other States, 
who may be refused the like indulgence.' 

I return you my sincere thanks for your polite congratulation on my 
present Appointment ; and with equal sincerity wish you all manner of 
happiness in the very distinguished Office of first Magistrate of the great- 
est State in the Union. In times of such difficulty, neither is very eligible; 
but a consciousness of discharging the duties with fidelity is a comfort 
the world cannot take away. 

257. The President of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 
Sir, 

On the 6th instant in the morning I received your Excellency's letter 
of the 4th, respecting the movements of Ld. Cornwallis's Army in Vir- 
ginia, and laid the same, with the inclosures, before Congress.* Copies 
were immediately made out, and transmitted to the Board of War and 
the Presidents of the States of Pennsylvania and Delaware. 

You will receive inclosed herewith an Act of Congress of the 14th 
instant, and in consequence thereof eight blank passports for the purpose 
of importing salt from Bermuda. The reluctance with which Congress 
granted these Passports will appear from the Act itself : necessity alone 
could justify it; and therefore their extreme caution is expressed in the 
manner it is, and to prevent as much as possible any jealousies among 
the Merchants or States on this account.' 

Philadelphia August 15, 1781. 

258. Thomas McKean to Thomas Bradford.'^ 

Sir, 

Colo. Randolph informs me that a party of the Enemy, or rather Tories 
employed by the Board of Directors, as they are called, at New York, 
have on Friday last taken his brother James Randolph, an Inhabitant of 
Monmouth county not in arms, as a prisoner, and from their threats has 
reason to apprehend the most cruel treatment of him, if they do not 
murder him, on account of his avowed and decided conduct in support of 
the liberties and independence of his country. I must request you to 
remonstrate in the warmest manner against this conduct, and that you will 
make particular inquiry into this matter, and let me know the result, in 
order that steps may be taken for immediate retaliation. 

If such measures are pursued by our inveterate enemies, they will before 
God and Man be solely responsible for the consequences. Our vengeance 
has been slow, but it may nevertheless be sure. 

Philadelphia, August 15th, 1781. 

2 See no. 234, note 2, ante. 
[257 1' Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book. IX. 131; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 84 
(draft) ; Arch, of Md., XLVU. 422. 
-' //;j(/.. XLV. 541- 

8 See nos. 234, 248, 257, ante, 262, 266, post. 
(258]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, " Thomas Bradford, Esquire 
D. Commissary of Prisoners at Klizabeth Town favoured by Colo. Randolph"). 



August, 1781 187 

259. James Lovell to John Jay.^ 
^. , Philadelphia, August 15, 1781. 

Herewith you will receive, according to the resolution of Congress of 
the loth, such information relative to the surrender of Pensacola and the 
subsequent arrival of the garrison at New York, as I have been able to 
obtain, which you will make use of according to your discretion and the 
spirit of the enclosed resolution.^ 

August 16. P. S. It appears to me not amiss to enclose to you a report 
of a committee on the loth, as it stands negatived on the journals of 
Congress.* 

260. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

r^ ^. Philadelphia, August i6th 1781. 

In our last letters we informed you of the conduct of Congress relating 
to Vermont and sent you enclosed their Resolutions respecting the same, 
and also the resolutions desiring Governor Trumbull to recall his Com- 
missions for the Purpose of taking British Goods on 1-ong Island;^ we 
also informed you of the appointment of the Chancellor to the office of 
Secretary for foreign affairs. The Committee to confer with the agents 
from Vermont, have since been appointed, consisting of five, most of 
whom are from the southward.* 

The Papers relating to the difference between the Quarter Master 
General and Colo. Hay respecting forage in West Chester have been 
committed to the Board of War, who declined reporting on the same. 
They have since been committed to a Special Committee whose report has 
been taken up, but for want of time postponed till to-morrow. We shall 
give you the earliest intelligence of the Decision of Congress on this sub- 
ject.* The Board of Treasury at present is in such situation that 1 see 
no great prospect of a settlement of the purchasing officers accounts in our 
State until the Financier shall adopt a general system for settling all 
public accounts which he is determined to do as soon as his Business will 
admit. Neither is it at present in our Power to procure Money for Colo. 
Lewis and Hay to pay of Artificers and Labourers in their several De- 
partments, unless by Orders on our Treasury, which I fear would be 
disagreeable to the State in its present Circumstances. By a Resolution 
at the Request of Mr. Morris, the Board of Treasury is continued, until 
he can have time to arrange his Business, and their Existance being so 
precarious, they would not willingly enter on any new modes for settling 
Accounts, they having no monies at their Disposal.* .... 

[259]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 634. 

2 See nos. 207, 208, ante, and the Journals, Aug. 10. 

3 The report was no doubt that respecting the navigation of the Mississippi. 
[a6o]i Clinton Papers, VII. 210. 

2 Both resolutions are of Aug. 7. See nos. 225, 239, 251, ante, 281, 282, post. 

3 See nos. 252, 255, ante, and the Journals, Aug. 14, 16, 17, 20, 21. 
* See nos. 240, 247, ante, 302-304, post. 

' See the Journals, July 24. 



188 Continental Congress 

261. A Committee of Congress to the Agents for Vermont/ 

Philadelphia, i8th August, 1781. 
(COPY) 

Questions proposed by the committee of Congress to the agents on the 
part of Vermont, with answers thereto. 

Query ist. Are the boundaries set forth in the written proposition 
deHvered in by the said agents at this time claimed by the State of Vermont 
as the lines of jurisdiction, the same as contained in the resolution of 
Congress of the 7th of August, instant ? 

Answer. They are the same with the addition of part of the waters of 
Lake Champlain for the benefit of trade etc. 

Query 2nd. What part do the people of Vermont mean to take up as 
to the past expenses of the present war, and what aid do they propose 
to afford as to men and money to the common defence? 

Answer. Such proportion as shall be mutually judged equitable after 
their admission to a seat in Congress, which has been several times 
officially proposed by the agents on the part of Vermont. 

Query ^rd. What are the ideas of the people of Vermont relative to the 
claim of private property under grants or patents from New Hampshire 
or New-York previous to the present Revolution ? 

Answer. Altho' the state of Vermont hath not hitherto authorized any 
court to take cognizance of such causes as respects titles of lands, never- 
theless they have had and still have it in contemplation to adopt such modes 
as the circumstances arising out of each case may justify, without adher- 
ing to the strict rules of law. 

Query 4th. What are the intentions of your constituents in regard to 
the patents that were granted on conditions of settlement within a given 
time, and which have been prevented by the claims of the people of Ver- 
mont and the present revolution ? 

Answer. No forfeitures have been taken by the state of Vermont on 
any such grant for non-performance of conditions of settlement, and 
we conceive it to be the intention of our constituents to grant a further 
reasonable time for fulfilling such conditions. 

Query ^th. What are the number of inhabitants within the lines men- 
tioned in their proposition above mentioned ? 

Answer. As the citizens of Vermont have not been lately numbered, 
we can therefore only estimate them at about 30,000, which we conceive 
to be nearly a true estimation. 

Query 6th. What quantity of land is contained within the said bounds ? 

Answer. There has been no accurate survey of the state of Vermont, 
but we conceive it to contain about 5,000,000 acres. 

Query yth. What applications have been made, either publicly or priv- 
ately, by the enemies of the United States or their adherents, to draw 
off the people of Vermont from their affection to the United States of 
America ? 

Answer. The honorable committee are possessed of copies of Bevy. 
Robinson's letters enclosed in B. General Allen's letter of the 9th of 

[261]! Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections. II. 165; Vf. Recs., II. 318. 



August, 1781 189 

March last to the then President of Congress, and any private offers we 
cannot vouch for. 

Query 8th. In case the enemy should attempt an invasion of the north- 
ern frontiers, what aid as to men and provisions could be raised in the 
state of Vermont for the public defence, (you can suppose the invasion 
made in different quarters,) and within what time? 

Answer. The number of militia within the lines herein limited we sup- 
pose to consist of about 7000, in general well armed and accoutred, and 
have ever shown themselves spirited in case of alarms, etc. 

In regard to provisions, the country is fertile but new and considerable 
emigrations from other states to Vermont. The Legislature, at their 
session in October last, levied a tax on the inhabitants for provisions 
sufficient for victualling 1500 troops in the field for twelve months, and 
we are of opinion a larger store may be in the same manner collected the 
ensuing autumn.^ 

262. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. i8th, 1781. 
Sir, 

A favourable occasion offering to obtain from Congress particular 
passports, for the importation of a quantity of salt into our State, we 
made an application for that purpose, and the Letter you will receive here- 
with from the President contains the resolves of Congress thereon, and 
the passports.^ 

Mr. Mullahon has sold only 12 hhds of Tobacco — The proceeds of 
which divided between Mr. Potts and ourselves have afforded a very 
scanty relief.' .... 

2ist. The president informs us that he has forwarded the passports 

263. The President of Congress to Thomas Jefferson.* 

Philada. August 20th, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

My Predecessor sent you the Copy of a vote of Congress of the 14th 
of June last, appointing you a Minister for negotiating a peace with Great 

2 The propositions of the Vermont delegates to the committee of Congress, dated 
at Philadelphia Aug. 18 and signed Joseph (Jonas) Fay, Ira Allen, and Bez'l Woodward, 
are in Vt. Hist. Soc., Collections, II. 164, and Vt. Recs., II. 317. See no. 252, ante; cf. 
nos. 264, 268-270, post. 

[262]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. loi (in Carroll's writing and signed by him and 
Jenifer) ; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 426. 

2 See nos. 234, note 2, ante. A motion was made on the subject by the Virginia 
delegates Aug. 9, and a report was brought in Aug. 14, which however underwent altera- 
tions in Congress. Doubtless it was the application of the Maryland delegates that brought 
about the alteration. 

3 See nos. 155, 176, ante. The remainder of the letter pertains to the same subject. 
Aug. I the delegates had asked for " an order on Mr. Mullahon for the proceeds of the 
Tobacco which you mentiond was to be disposd of by him for our use " (Arch, of Md. 
XLVII. 385), and Aug. 4 the order was given (ibid., XLV. 543). 

[263]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 65. 



190 Continental Congress 

Britain: As no answer has yet been received, a doubt has taken place, 
whether the information had reached you, and therefore I now enclose 
you a Duplicate.^ .... 

264. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 20th Augt. 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been punctual in corresponding with your Excellency since I 
resumed my seat in Congress, but have not learned whether one of my 
Letters has been received. The Vermont business goes on briskly: If 
their agents had been authorized to renounce their late Encroachments 
everything was prepared for establishing their independent state within 
the Limits of their first Claim. But those people have connected them- 
selves so closely with the settlers of the grants on the East side of 
Connecticut River that they find it difficult to shake them off. Under these 
circumstances we shall endeavour to get every thing effected for the future 
security of our State against Encroachments, which shall be in our power. 
I am however perfectly satisfied that much will Depend on a liberal system 
for appropriating and settling our western Country. Happy would it have 
been had my former plan, which met with your Excellency's approbation, 
been adopted. I trust the wisdom of it will be more and more conspicuous. 
Some of its Advantages are already lost, forever.^ .... 

P. S. The Financier returned from Camp this morning and I have by 
him the pleasure of hearing of your health. 

265. James Mitchell Varnum to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 20th August, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... A Committee has lately been appointed in Congress for reform- 
ing the present military Establishment, of w'h I am one. I must confess 
the Measure appeared some what disagreable; but many Circumstances 

2 See no. 159, ante. Jefferson had written to the President of Congress Aug. 4, 
explaining that his acknovvledginent of the letter of June 15 had been delayed because 
of an absence from home. " I fully feel ", he wrote, " how honourable is the confidence 
which Congress has been pleased to repose in me by their appointment to the high and 
arduous duty of assisting in the negotiations for peace, and do sincerely lament the 
existence of circumstances which take from me the right of accepting so desirable an office " 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., f. 239). The letter was read in Congress Aug. 27 
(see the Journals). On receipt of this letter of Aug. 20 Jefferson replied Sept. 7, explaining 
that, although he had received the letter of June 15 on July 9, he had been prevented from 
answering until Aug. 4. " This answer ", he said, " I took the liberty of transmitting imder 
cover to the hon'ble Majr. Genl. Marquis la Fayette, being the channel thro which the 
one addressed to me had come." A duplicate of the letter of Aug. 4 was enclosed. The 
letter of Sept. 7 (read in Congress Sept. 25) is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., 
■f. 257 ; the duplicate of Aug. 4 is ibid., p. 261. See no. 301, post; also the Journals, Oct. 8. 

1264]! Clinton Papers, VII. 231. 

2 See nos. 252, 261, ante, 268-270, post. 

[265]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



August, 178 1 191 

rendered an Acquiescence preferable to an Opposition : But upon more 
mature Deliberation, I am induced to retract my first Sentiments, and shall 
pursue the Subject with unremitted Assiduity.' .... 

We have been so fortunate at last as to elect a Minister of foreign 
Affairs. The Time draws near for appointing a Secretary at War. There 
will be a great Difficulty respecting the Candidates. I recollect a Question 
in one of your Excellency's former Letters to General Sullivan. Be pleased 
to receive from me the real Answer. That Gentleman was in Nomination, 
and to get rid of the Embarrassment, Congress postponed the Election. 
General Greene is most talked of, but he cant be taken from the Line. 
Will General Heath fill the Place with Propriety? I know he sometimes 
hesitates ; but he has many excellent Qualities.* How will General Glover 
answer for Commissary General of Prisoners? Will it be political to 
promote Generals Greene and Lincoln to the Rank of Lt. General ? The 
detaching Mr. Peters to Camp was a political Manoeuvre of your Friends.* 
He has been a long Time in the Process of Reformation and it is believed, 
will soon come out intirely purified. General Cornel is an excellent hand, 
and has been of infinite Service in the War Office. In the Course of 
Octr. or November next, I shall return to Rhode Island ; Previous to which 
I hope the Arrangements for the next Campaign will be compleated.' 

266. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philada. Aug'st 20th, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

.... In consequence of your Excellency's on the subject of salt, we 
have obtained from Congress passports for the Reimportation of fifty 
thousand bushels of that article from the Island of Bermudas, which the 
President informs us he has already transmitted to you by Express. - 

267. Joseph Jones to the Virginia State Auditors.^ 

Gent'n, 

I inclose my acco't agt. the State for Expences as well those for House- 
keeping as for Horses and traveling without adding any thing extra per 
day as I know not certainly upon what footing the Delegates now are, 

2 See the Jountah. July 26, 31, and nos. 227. 247, ante. 271, 395, 403, post. \'anium 
discusses at some length the problems involved in effecting the arrangement of the army. 
A letter bearing date Aug. 21 (Washington Papers) is a continuation of the discussion. 

3 Robert R. Livingston was chosen secretary for foreign affairs Aug. 10. Con- 
cerning the election of a secretary at war see nos. 14, 24, 112, ante, no. 331, post. 

* See nos. 227, 247, ante. 

5 The letter bears endorsement, in the writing of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., one of 
Washington's secretaries, " Conference held upon it ". 

[266] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9774 (in the writing of Bland and signed by 
Jones, Madison, Bland, and Randolph). 

2 See nos. 234, 248, 256, 262, ante; cf. no. 331, post. The omitted portions of the 
letter relate principally to correspondence with the president of Pennsylvania respecting 
the seizure of merchandize belonging to the state for a private debt. The correspondence 
is in Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 260, 262, 271, 272, 274. The last of these letters, from the Vir- 
ginia delegates to Reed July 13, is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
[267] '•Va. State Lib., Elxecutive Papers. 



192 Continental Congress 

having no satisfactory information on that head since 1 left the Assembly 
last Fall; at wch time there was a proposition before the House changing 
the allowance to a certain stipend per day but have since been told it did 
not pass both branches of the legislature, from whence I conclude it re- 
mains on the former footing of defraying our expences. It may be neces- 
sary to say something explanatory of my account." .... 

Phila: 20th Augt. 1781. 

268. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 21st Aug'st 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Since the Arrival of the Vermont Agents Congress have resumed the 
Controversy and come to the Decision enclosed. It was not without Diffi- 
culty that we prevailed on Congress to establish a Boundary capable of 
some Precision as far as Fort Edward (to wit) a twenty Mile Line from 
and agreeable to the general Course of Hudson's River. The Agents and 
their Friends contended that the West Bounds of the Towns granted by 
the late Government of New Hampshire should wholly form the Division 
Line : but this would have been so violent an Encroachment on our ancient 
Grants that Congress unanimously rejected the Attempt. From the 
Termination of the above Line those Grants and the Northern Waters 
fix our Limits. The Grants are by no means a proper Boundary as there 
were no actual Surveys prior to the Patents and the Occupants were left 
to settle at Discretion ; but there was no Remedy. 

Your Excellency will perceive that we have been placed in a Situation 
truly painful. Those who reasoned without Prejudice admitted it was a 
Sacrifice of the Rights of Individual States for the publick Safety: but 
they conceived, bad as was the Precedent, it was a necessary Sacrifice in 
our present critical Circumstances. On these Principles our Title was 
winked out of Sight, altho' it was maintained by the most satisfactory 
Evidence. It will be fruitless to enlarge on this vexatious Subject. A 
Decision might possibly have been deferred : but the Confusion would 
have increased. 

Your Excellency will be pleased to observe that the Dissent of our State 
has been given in every Stage of this Business. We insisted on a judicial 
Determination on the Right, in the Spirit of the Act of Congress of 
September 1779: The present Act is grounded on Expediency or Policy, 
tho' it is not so expressed." 

2 The explanatory statement, as well as the account itself, which together occupy 
five folio pages, are instructive for the light they shed both upon the mode of life in Con- 
gress and upon monetary values, but must be omitted here. The account covers the period 
from Jan. 30 to Aug. 20, 1 781. 

[268] IN. Y. State Lib., Legislative Papers, no. 2433 (copy); Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., XIL 184. The letter is signed by Duane and L'Hommedieu. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 20, 21. It is noteworthy that the only negative vote 
Aug. 20, other than those of the New York delegates, was by Mathews of South Carolina. 
The resolution appears in the Journals Aug. 20, with erasures indicating the amendments 
which were made Aug. 21. Under the latter date it is recorded in its final form, that is, 
without erasures. A copy of the resolution, in the writing of Daniel Carroll, is in the 
Washington Papers. Cf. nos. 252, 261, 264, ante, 270, 284, 285, post. 



August, 1781 193 

269. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, August 21, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Since writing to you by the last post, Ira Allen, Fay, and Woodward, 
from Vermont, have arrived here, and sent into Congress their com- 
mission as Delegates from the State of Vermont (as they term it) and 
also their powers to treat on terms of admission into the federal Union. 
The Committee who were appointed in pursuance of the resolution of the 
7th of this instant (a copy of which we had the honor of transmitting to 
your Excellency) were instructed to confer with them on the Subject of 
their commission, and to report thereon. A conference ensued, and the 
Committee reported that the agents from Vermont made their proposals 
in writing, which were. That as they had no authority to relinquish any 
part of their present jurisdiction, they requested to be admitted into the 
Union, and the independence of Vermont acknowledged; after which they 
would settle any dispute with New York or New Hampshire, according 
to the Articles of Confederation. Some gentlemen (if I may so call them) 
would have gladly accepted of their proposals. After a considerable time 
spent in debate, the enclosed resolution was agreed to ; but that there will 
be a sufficient firmness to adhere to the same, I should much doubt were 
it not for New Hampshire's being in similar circumstances with New 
York, in respect to Vermont's late extended jurisdiction. So engaged are 
the Eastern States and many others to favor this claim of independence, 
that all other business must give way to that ; which is the reason that the 
dispute between the Quarter Master General and Colo. Hay, altho' it has 
been the order of the day for a considerable time, is not yet decided. I 
trust it will be determined as soon as Mr. Allen and his associates are 
gone out of town, which I hope will be today.* The expectation of the 
sudden arrival of the French squadron from the West Indies on our coast, 
the various conjectures of the particular place of their destination, and 
the probable events which may take place in consequence thereof, has 
engrossed a great part of the conversation of all companies for two days 
past 

P. S. The Resolution referred to, you will have in our official letter. 

270. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).* 

Philadelphia Aug'st 21st, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

A Com'tee of Vermont has been here by an appointm't in June, to unite 
their State with the United States, and to sit in Congress. They knew 
nothing of the resolution of the 7th Aug'st untill their arrival in this City. 

[269]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 185. 

2 See no. 268, ante, nos. 2710, 277, ^ost. 
[2^oYN. H. State Papers, X. 407; Htst. Magazine, XXIII. 174. 



194 Continental Congress 

After sundry manouvres, Congress informed them by a Resolution yester- 
day, (Augst 20th) That it would be an indispensable preliminary to their 
Independence and being admitted into the union, that they relinquished 
all pretensions east of the west banks of Connecticut river, etc.^ 

The committee will return home to consult their constituents. The en- 
closed paper will give you good news. 

271. James Mitchell Varnum to George Washington.* 

August 23d, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's Letters to Congress inclosing the Memorial from 
the Officers of the Rhode Island and Connecticutt Lines, respecting Pro- 
motions in their District to the Rank of Brigadier General, is before the 
Committee mentioned in my Letter of the 20th instant. Upon the present 
Arrangement, their Claim appears well founded; But should the proposed 
Alteration take Place, Promotions will probably be deferred. However, 
I am confident your Excellency's Sentiments upon these Subjects will have 
essential Influence,^ 

272. James Lovell to Mrs. Elizabeth Dana.^ 

August 2^, 1 78 1. 

.... Mr. Dana was well May 28th. Capt, Mason left the Texel the 
29 and got safely to these Capes, when he was taken and carried to 
Bermudas, from whence he arrived this morning at Philada. He had been 
obliged on the 8th of June to destroy a very large Bag of Letters, when 
on the point of being taken by the Suffolk man of war. He was detained 
on board 5 hours, but by certain arts avoided being known as American 
property : The Suffolk was with three other Ships of the Line convoying 
65 Sail from Jamaica, and had, three days before, taken the Marq de 
Fayette, which was in company; having fought well 3 hours before she 
struck: It is an h[e]avy Loss in Soldiers, Cloathing, etc. 

Within half a week of the sailing of Captain Mason from the Texel 
Mr. Adams had gone into a vast change of Living; from a course of 
private Lodging with command of two rooms, He took a grand House 
rolled his Chariot multiplied his Servants and put on the minister plenipo : 
without any other Explanation than what the free publication of his me- 
morial in all the Gazettes naturally gave. The general persuasion was that 
their High mightinesses were fully decided to declare in our favour." 



2 See nos. 268, 269, ante. 
[371]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Tlie letter of Washington referred to is dated Aug. 17 and was read in Congress 
Aug. 22. The draft is in the Washington Papers. The memorial, signed by Samuel 
Holden Parsons and others and bearing date Aug. 15, is ibid. 
{2^2\^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781. 

2 See no. 274, post. The Pennsylvania Gazette of Aug. 29 says, " By a gentleman 
who left the Texel about the 28th of May last we learn" — giving somewhat the same 
account as given by Captain Mason to Lovell. 



August, 1/8 1 195 

273. John Mathews to Nathanael Greene/ 

[August 2S, 28, 1 78 1.] 
August 2j.^ I can now with confidence Assure you, that a french fleet 
is hourly expected on our coast — that their operations will first be south- 
wardly—that Chs. Town is a main object — whether previous or subse- 
quent to an attack in Cheasepeak, must depend on circumstances. The 
operating force will be respectable both by Sea and land. My information 
is not derived from Congress. (Yet it is not to be doubted) therefore 
the Com'tee do not write to you, but I thought it so important, that I 
should have been inexcusable as a friend, not to give you the earliest 
communication of it, especially by so safe and good an opportunity, as 
you will thereby be enabled to anticipate the measures that will be necessary 
to be taken by you, in so interesting a conjuncture, that is to say, as far 
as your slender means can apply. S[h]ould you not have received official 
information before this reaches you, I think you may venture to act on 
what I now give you, as derived from the most authentic source. 

The prospect brightens my friend ! and opens to us the most flattering 
view of the end of all our toils, that I have yet seen, since the commence- 
ment of the revolution. Whether the year 1781 will be the oera of 
America's substantial independence I will not venture to pronounce, but a 
secret impulse informs me, that it will be the grand Epocha of her glory: 
when her arms will acquire the highest renown, and raise her into conse- 
quence among the nations of the earth; and each one shall court her as 
the favourite Mistress of the day.' .... 

Augt. 28. P. S. — Since writing the above, a frigate has arrived at 
Boston from Breast. Two large ships sailed under her convoy, loaden 
with Stores for us, unluck[i]ly one of them got dismasted, and was obliged 
to put back, the other is safe arrived. The contents of her cargo we are 
not as yet acquainted with. The Ministers dispatches (as far as he has 
thought proper to communicate) contain the following advices. " This 
frigate sailed with the grand fleet of France from Breast on the 23 June 
under the Command of Count D'Guichen, he parted with them five days 
after, when they bore away to join the Spanish fleet off Cadiz ; the destina- 
tion of the combined fleets was a profound secret 

Great events are in the womb of time. I hope Madam is so far gone, 
that she will produce soon, when we shall be able to judge what sort of 
brat it is 

274. James Lovell to Mrs. Abigail Adams.^ 

August 24, 1 78 1. 

After giving a few lines for you yesterday to the Commissary General 

of Prisoners who was going for Boston ; I held Conversation with a Capt. 

Mason who had just landed from a Flag of Truce of Bermuda 

[373] 1 William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 See no. 250, anle. 

3 Following this passage Mathews indulges in what he himself calls "heroics, 
soliliquies, etc., etc.". 

[274]! Royal Gazette, Sept. 8. 1781. 



196 Continental Congress 

Capt. Mason mentions that about three days before he left Holland 
Mr. Adams had made a very great change as to an exhibition of character, 
had taken a large house proper equipage and servants; and it was not 
doubted to be according to the wishes and designs of their High Mighti- 
nesses. 1 conclude from my memorandum book that Mr. A. must have 
reed, at that Period our Resolves and Instructions respecting the Com- 
pletion of the Union, March ist by the signature of Maryland to the 
articles. 

you may expect Commod : Gillon momently in a ship of 24 42 pounders 
on one deck. There is also a Capt. Eden or something like it bound for 
Boston. People connected Mr. a's appearance with a certain proceeding 
of Gillon, and judged both originating in the Government there. Gillon 
very suddenly unloaded known private property and received other Goods 
at the same Hours, one Shallop going and another coming constantly." 

The memorial of mr. a. is spoken of by Capt. Mason, as it is by Mr. 
Carmichael, very familiarly, both conceiving we have it amongst us, but 
we only see it hinted at sneeringly in British papers. Is not this vexatious 
to us Evites ?*.... 

rationally respectfully, Mistriss Adams's humble Servant 

J. S. [J. L.] 



275. The President of Congress to Certain States/ 

Sir, 

The Act of Congress of the 23d instant, of which you have a Copy 
inclosed, was occasioned by five States being unrepresented on this im- 
portant period. We are at the Eve of great events, and the collected wisdom 
of the United States was perhaps seldom more wanted. I flatter myself 
therefore the public good will so far prevail over every other consideration 
that the Delegates from your States, or two of them at least, will give their 
attendance without delay. 

Your good offices on this occasion will, I rest assured, be successfully 
exerted. 

Philadelphia August 25, 1781. 

2 See no. 272, ante, no. 341, post, and the Journals, Nov. i, 1782. 

3 Adams's memorial to the States General, dated Apr. 19, is in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., IV. 370; his memorial to the Prince of Orange, the same date, is ibid., p. 376. 
Concerning his course of procedure at this time see his letter to Franklin Apr. 27 {ibid., 
p. 390), Dumas to Congress May i-July 13 {ibid., p. 393), Adams to Congress TVIay 3, 7, 
16 {ibid., pp. 398, 401, 419). With his letter of May 16 he transmits copies of his 
memorials and mentions that that to the States General had been published. This letter 
was read in Congress Oct. 3. Cj. the report of the committee on Luzerne's memorials, in 
the Journals, Sept. 21 (especially p. 993). 

[275]^ Copied from the original to President Weare (marked " Duplicate"), then in the 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 67; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, L 91 (draft). The letter-book 
copy is addressed, " For His Excellency Governor Livingston ". At the foot is, " N. B. 
The like to Governors Trumbull and Burke and Presidents Rodney and Weare". The 
letter to Governor Trumbull was intercepted and published in the Royal Gazette Sept. 8. 



August, I/81 197 

276. The President of Congress to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed)/ 

Philada. August 25th 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inclose you the copy of an Act of Congress of the 
23d instant, which I trust will be pleasing to the parties concerned. 

A multitude of other business of more importance has delayed this act 
of Justice rather too long, but if the owners of the leaden spouts taken 
for the public use are paid the full value of them even at this time, I would 
hope they will excuse the omission hitherto.' 

2yy. Elias Boudinot to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

D'r Sir, 

I think it my Duty on every great national Question especially that are 
of general Importance and in which the Welfare of the union is concerned, 
to keep the Legislature informed of the proceedings in Congress and 
particularly of the Conduct of their Delegates that nothing of Consequence 
may be done by them contrary to the sense of their Constituents. It would 
indeed be an advantageous Circumstance for the State, was a committee 
of Correspondence appointed in the recess of the Legislature, thro whom 
mutual Information might be kept up between the Delegates in Congress 
and the State. Suffer me on this Occasion officially to trouble your Exc'y 
with some late Transactions in Congress relating to the State of Vermont 
so called, in which I apprehend the united States are particularly interested, 
and which in the End are likely to involve the States in a civill war, and 
to beg your Exc'y to lay the same before the Legislature at their next 
Meeting. When I took my seat in Congress last July, I found that fre- 
quent Applications had been made to Congress by the States of New York 
and N Hampshire in order to settle the Line between the two States on 
the West of Connecticut River, by which a Tract of Land of about 100 
Miles long and [?5]o broad claimed by the Inhabitants as an inde- 
pendent State, would be included in one or both of those States. The 
inhabitants stiling themselves the State of Vermont made application to 
be recognized an Independant State and received into the Union, engaging 
to fulfill equal Duties to any State in the union agreeable to the Constitu- 
tion. The States of New York and N Hampshire insisted that this tract 
of Country had been part of the one or both of those Colonies and still 
belong to one or both of them as States and therefore could not be dis- 
membered by Congress. The People by their Agents insisted that they 

[276]! Library of Congress, President's Letter- Book, p. 68; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 
370; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., McKean. 

2 As shown by the Journals, Aug. 23, this action took its rise from a report of the 
board of war, July 24, 1779, on a matter referred to the board July 16, 1779. This is one 
of a long list of reports which had not been acted upon, drawn up by a committee 
appointed July 25, 1781. The "leaden spouts" mentioned had been taken in accordance 
with a resolution of the supreme executive council of Pennsylvania, Aug. 27, 1777, in 
pursuance of a resolution of Congress Aug. 26, 1777. 

[377]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 82 (draft). 



198 Continental Congress 

being oppressed by the late Colony of New York had opposed her Govern- 
ment previous to the Revolution — that they were the first to begin the 
Revolution — That they took the fortress of Ticonderoga and Crown point 
— That at the Revolution they were in a State of Nature — That they then 
set up a new Government and have ever since been in the actual Possession 
of Sovereign Power — That they have a Legislature, have enacted Laws, 
erected Court of Justice, levied Men — That they have done their Part in 
the comon cause — That they fought the Battle of Bennington and finally 
that they would not submit the Question of their Independance to any 
Jurisdiction or Power on Earth and therefore protested agt. all Right 
in Congress to determine that Question, but in case they were represented 
in that Body, they would submit to the Terms of the Confederation on 
every Point. The Claim extended from the west of Connecticut River to 
a Line 20 Miles East of North River and from Massachusets South to 
north Latitude 45° North. Congress had engaged to proceed to the Settle- 
ment of the Dispute on a certain Day, but finding the Matter of too 
ser[ious] a Nature to trifle with and that the consequence might involve 
the states in a bloody civil war at a very critical and important period and 
that on a Question whether the Inhabitants of sd. Territory should govern 
themselves or be governed by others agt. their Will, and considering that 
all Government was for the happiness of the People, postponed this Ques- 
tion and so it remained on July last. About this Time Application was 
made to Congress by the Governor of N. Hampshire complaining of the 
Incroachm't of those People and praying the Aid of Congress; this was 
committed with a former report of a Committee to another Committee, 
who having fully considered the Matter and reported to Congress the 
whole was taken up in a new point of Light.^ 

Phil. Augt [25,] 1781 ' 

278. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 
^j.. Philada. August 28th, 1 78 1. 

Since I had the honor of writing to you on the 26th day of July last 
I received your favors of the 17th and 19th of July, and of the 29th 
of May, the two former came to hand on the 13th of August by Captain 
Archer, and the latter only on the 20th of August ; in so dilatory a manner 
have they been conveyed, tho' by Expresses. These letters have been laid 
before Congress, who were pleased with the intelligence, and caused the 
contents to be immediately published.^ 

I have nothing at present to communicate by authority; but we are at 
the Eve of great events. Our intelligence from Europe is very flattering, 
and our prospects at home are exceeding fair 

2 See nos. 261, 264, 268-270, ante, 284, 285, 303, 304, post. 

^ This draft is endorsed, " Govr. Livingston abt Vermont 25 Augt. 1781 ". 
[278] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 68; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, L 94 (draft). 

2 The letters were referred, Aug. 13 and 20, to the committee of intelligence. That 
of July 17 was printed in a "Postscript" to the Pennsylvania Packet Aug. 14, in the 
regular edition of the Packet Aug. 16, and in the Gazette Aug. 15. The letter of May 29, 
with enclosures, was printed in the Packet Aug. 21. 



August, 1 78 1 109 

279. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell.^ 

Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

As the General Court of Massachusetts will meet about the time this 
will reach you, I am induced to write you respecting the letter from a 
committee of our legislature to their Delegates in Congress. The letter 
is now referred to the financier; and it seems to be the intention of Con- 
gress that he should have the arrangement of the finances. I have had a 
little conversation with him, and find it to be his prevailing opinion, that 
the resolve of the i8th of March must be adhered to; so far as it respects 
calling in the old money at least : and that a farther day should be given, 
after which the delinquent States shall be held to pay to the United States 
specie in lieu of the old money, making twenty old continental dollars 
equal to one dollar in specie, agreeable to the principles of said resolve. 
Whether, if the Financier proposes a rigid adherence to said resolve, it 
will meet with the approbation of Congress time only will determine. I 
flatter myself the Financier is not unacquainted with our exertions, and 
that he is heartily disposed to adjust matters equitably between the States ; 
it lays with him, and I believe he is fully impressed with the necessity of 
a speedy settlement of the accounts of the States; more especially since 
the resolves of the 25th of February (respecting specified requisitions) 
and of the 18th of March, 1780; until he has made his arrangements no 
step can be taken by Congress. I hope this will be done, so that the legisla- 
ture may be furnished therewith at their next session. 1 have no doubt 
but Mr. Morris will render us great service, and I hope we shall use our 
utmost endeavours to support him. 

As soon as any thing of consequence turns up, upon this subject, I shall 
do myself the pleasure to communicate it." 

N. B. This State's new money of the i8th of March, passes at 2^ for 
one; no other State's money passes here. 

280. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, 28th August, 1781. 
Sir, 

We have been honored with your Excellencys Letter of the 13th Instant. 
Since our Letter of the 24th July, nothing very material has occurred, 
saving Gen. Washington's crossing the Hudson River. This Movement 
is pregnant with great Events. Should Count de Grasse soon arrive with 
a large Fleet, as far as human Wisdom can determine, the Campaign will 

[a^g\^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 29, 1781. 

2 See no. 193, ante, and the Journals, June 27, July 16, Aug. 7, 23. On the same 
day that Osgood was writing, the superintendait of finance wrote at length to Congress 
on the same subject (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 667), mentioning in his letter a 
report of Aug. 14 on the Massachusetts letters. This was probably the report brought in 
Aug. 7. Morris's letter of Aug. 28 was not however presented until Nov. 5. See no. 254, 
ante, no. 312, post. 

[280]^ /?o>'o/ Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781 (signed by Mowry and Varnum). 



200 Continental Congress 

terminate gloriously. We hope it will. For altho' our Situation wears an 
infinitely better Aspect than it did some Time since, yet our Debts are 
daily augmenting, and no Money produced into the general Treasury. 
The British are amazingly distressed in the East Indies, and the French 
Squadron having met with and defeated Commodore Johnston's Squad- 
ron, will probably compleat their Ruin in that quarter. The Brest Fleet, 
commanded by Count Guichen, sailed on the 23d of June last to join the 
Spanish ; so that we may expect the Channel is awed, and the homeward 
bound Jamaica Fleet in danger of Capture. Mr. Mowry has delivered 
the Tickets mentioned in your Excellency's Letter. 

P. S. We are unhappy in informing your Excellency that by the great 
Accession of People to this Place of late, the Price of living has been 
greatly increased; and we shall soon be under the Necessity of drawing 
upon the State. 

281. Roger Sherman to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. 
Sir, 

Enclosed is a letter from Mr. Law directed to you on public service, 
which I took the liberty to open, wherein he writes that he can't come to 
Congress 'till October." 'tis necessary that one or more should come 
forthwith, as but eight States are now represented. Congress desired the 
President last week to write to the Executive of the States not represented 
to send Delegates immediately. Nothing remarkable has occurred here 
since your departure. Nor have we reed, any news from abroad. Col. 
Floyd has wrote to N. York Delegates a lamentable story about the depre- 
dations made on Long-Island, under commission from Gov. Trumbull, 
which makes unfavourable impressions which I wish to be able to remove. 
I believe you took Gov. Trumbull's letter to Gov. Clinton home with you, 
or I should have it read in Congress. I conclude the Commissions will be 
revoked upon receiving the late resolution of Congress.* I enclose you a 
number of papers but not much news. Should be glad to hear from you. 

P. S. I hope care will be taken to forward some money to me very 
speedily, any aid from you therein will be greatfuUy acknowledged. R. S. 

282. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

We have no letters from General Greene since my last, altho' reports 
give him new advantages 

[aSi]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781. 

2 Law's letter to Ellsworth, dated at Danbury, Aug. 21, and printed in the same 
issue of the Royal Gazette, was principally to say that it was not in his power to attend 
Congress until sometime in October. 

8 See nos. 225, 239, 251, 260, ante, 282, 284, 285, J03, 304, post. 
[282]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781. 



August, 1/8 1 201 

We have a long representation from Colonel Floyd respecting the 
grievances of our friends on Long-Island. It will be the basis of some 
further resolutions which will go to the bottom of the mischief.' We are 
ordered to press Congress to establish our Western boundary, so that we 
may rest secure from Eastern claims or intrusion. I am taking the pre- 
vious steps. 

P. S. We wish to learn which of our public or private Letters have 
got safe to hand. 

283. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.* 

Philadelphia, Aug. 28, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Not one of your friends have heard from you since your appointment 
to the office of Secretary for foreign affairs. I have written to you on the 
subject by three different conveyances. We are all at a loss for your 
silence. The President informed me that he notified you officially by 
the way of head-quarters. At this juncture, delay is unfortunate, as the 
fullest point of our administration is in our foreign affairs and the Remedy 
at length applied has long been loudly called for. I have much to say to 
you on this subject, but it shall be deferred for a personal interview.' 

Our prospects abroad and at home are agreeable tho' nothing has lately 
occurred worth the detail but what the papers communicate. 

284. Ezra L'Hommedieu to William Floyd.* 

[August 28(?), 1781.] 
Sir, 

This day I was favoured with your letter of the i6th of this instant, 
which is the first time I have heard from Home, and the only letter from 
thence that I have received since I have been here. I informed you some- 
time ago of the Resolution of Congress desiring Governor Trumbull 
immediately to recall the Commissions he had granted, if I have time to 
take a copy I will send you one inclosed, it was expected he would put a 
sudden stop to the Plundering, although I much question whether he will 
or not. The Instructions to Captains or Commanders of armed Vessels 
commissioned, in pursuance of the ordinance on the 27th of March, limits 
the Captures to the High Seas, or between high and low water marks. 
This was supposed by Congress to be a full explanation of the ordinance, 
and they would not believe but it would prevent any misconstruction 
thereafter. 

I shall endeavour to get something more pointed if possible, tho I much 
Question whether any resolution will be so much regarded in Connecticut 
as to prevent their plundering. Retalliation from the State of New- York 

2 See no. 281, ante. 
[283]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781. 

2 See no. 243, ante, no. 299, post. 
[2i^Y Royal Gazette, Sept. 12, 1781. 

17 



202 Continental Congress 

will be the only thing that will prevent it. The Law of the Land is now 
])lainly against it, and I am very sure there will be no kind of Difficulty 
in reversing the Judgments that have been obtained by the Admiralty, 
in the Court of appeals.^ .... I wrote to you before that Congress 
refused to determine the Dispute with Vermont on the Principles engaged 
by the Resolution of the 12th of Sept. 1779 but have proceeded upon the 
Principles of Expediency, and have proposed recognizing their Independ- 
ence and admitting them into the foederal L'nion if Terms can be agreed 
on. one Preliminary is that they relinquish all Jurisdiction or Claim on 
the East Side of Connecticut River and Seventy [twenty] Miles East of 
Hudson's River, what those people will determine on I know not. but to me 
it is pro[ba]ble that this Tract of Country will be sacrificed and lost to 
New- York, to answer the avaricious Views of .some States, the Conduct 
of our legislature at Albany last winter and the Influence of some of our 
Principal People in the State since had greatly tended to bring this Busi- 
ness to its present State.^ I conclude that I cannot give you news more 
than you will have to the Eastward and in the inclosed Papers. The 
Prospect of Peace does not appear to be so near as it did sometime ago : 
and the prospect of taking New- York this campaign is very small, tho' 
upon a general View of our affairs in Europe and America, our Prospects 
are very flattering. I conclude you have thought it strange that the Main 
Army should leave the State of New-York, which is reported here to be 
the Case. I make no doubt notwithstanding we may be disappointed in our 
Expectations of taking New York the Campaign will terminate greatly 
in our favour 

285. Ezra L'Hommedieu to David Gelston.^ 

Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

With respect to Gov. Trumbull's Commissions by a late Resolve of 
Congress, he is desired immediately to recall them, which I conclude he 
has done before now. 1 am confident every Judgment obtained in the 
Courts of Admiralty on Captures by those Commissions, will be reversed 
by the Court of Appeals, 'tis unfortunate for our People that the Court 
will not probably sit in Connecticut soon. I think it will be best for them 
to have the appeals determined here, as a Delay may be injurious to them.^ 
At my Arrival here I found a general Disposition to recognize the Inde- 
pendence of Vermont, and to admit them into the Foederal union on 
certain Conditions, and to take up the Business on the principle of Ex- 
pediency separate from the merits of the Cause. I have not Time to 
inform you of the various motives that probably induced the different 
States to countenance this Measure, but undoubtedly the Conduct of the 
Members of our Legislature, at least some of them, last Winter at Albany, 

- See no. 281, ante. 

3 See nos. 268-270, ante, 285, 303, 304, post. 
\2Ss]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 15, 1781 (addressed, "David Gelston, Esq; East Had- 
dam"). 

^ See no. 281, ante. 



August, ij8i 203 

has had its full effect here, and I think it more than probable that New- 
York will be obliged to sacrifice her rights for what may be called the 
general Good, but more properly to answer the ambitious and avaritious 
Views of some particular States and Individuals. .... 

286. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philada. Aug'st 28th, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

We were yesterday favored with your Excellency's two letters of the 
loth and 17th instant.^ Our plan of writing weekly by the post has we 
assure you been in no instance departed from. 

As soon as a State of your advances to the prisoners brought from 
Charlestown arrives we shall endeavour to obtain a reimbursement of 
them. At the same time it is incumbent on us to apprize you that the 
present condition of the public Treasury, and the pretensions of almost 
every state to exertions and contributions beyond its just proportions 
which would warrant similar applications, forbid much reliance on our 
success. The force of these obstacles has just been experienced in the 
impracticability of obtaining for General Spotswood a small sum assigned 
over to him by a Citizen of Virginia to whom it was due from the United 
States.^ The danger of increasing the importunities and discontent of 
the public Creditors by such a precedent, and the appropriation of every 
fund to the essential purposes of the Campaign from which it is surmized 
relief must eventually accrue to Virginia, prevailed over every considera- 
tion drawn from the justice of the demand and the use to which it was 
destined. So uncertain indeed must be the reimbursement of all advances 
made for the U. States whilst our means continue so inadequate to the 
general expenditures, that the State will be justified in declining them in 
every instance where humanity and the most essential objects will admit. 
To prevent however as much as possible objections to repayment in cases 
where they cannot be avoided, we request the attention of Your Excellency 
to the keeping us well informed of the compliance of Virginia with the 
several requisitions of Congress, and of all such extraordinary supplies 
as may from time to time be derived from her 

287. John Witherspoon to Samuel Huntington.^ 

Philadelphia, August 29, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I beg leave to congratulate you on your safe return to your friends, 
of which I have been made acquainted from various quarters, 

[286]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.. M. O. C, III. 21 (in the writing of Joseph Jones, 
signed by Jones, Madison, Bland, and Randolph). 

2 A letter from Governor Nelson to the President of Congress Aug. 10, read in 
Congress Aug. 27, is in Official Letters, III. 22. No letter of the 17th, either to Congress 
or the delegates, is found fliere. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 21, 27. 
[aij]^ Royal Gazette, Sept. 8, 1781. 



204 Continental Congress 

With great satisfaction I observe by the public papers the joyful and 
honorable reception you met with on your arrival, so expressive of that 
affection and approbation, which to you, will be the most grateful tribute 
of praise your country can bestow, and, next to a consciousness of having 
laboured how to establish the liberties of America, will be the greatest 
happiness you can enjoy. 

There has been reason for some days, hourly to expect an account of 
the arrival of 23 French ships of the line in Chesapeake Bay, but we have 
not yet been favoured with such intelligence. 

The letters last received from General Greene, which are of a very old 
date, are published in the inclosed paper. 

M. de Marbois desires to know what became of the pamphlet which 
contained General Burgoyne's history of his campaign of 1777. 

I should be happy to hear of the restablishment of your health. Be 
pleased to present my compliments to Mrs. Huntington and Miss Fanny.' 

P. S. A letter is sent by order of Congress to Governor Trumbull de- 
siring that Delegates may attend from your State, and the same to N. 
Hampshire, New Jersey, Delaware and N. Carolina. 

288. The President of Congress to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philada. August 30th, 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency has inclosed herewith an act of Congress of yesterday, 
together with a letter from Major General St. Clair, to be laid before 
Council. It gives the greatest uneasiness to Congress that their funds at 
present will not enable them to expedite the march of the Troops men- 
tioned by the General, but they hope you will be able to devise some 
means to accomplish this desireable purpose." 

289. William Sharpe to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. ist 1781. 
Sir, 

I beg leave to call the attention of your Excellency for a moment to the 
State of N-orth Carolina respecting a quantity of arms which I concieve 
essential for her immediate defence. 

On the 26th of April last Congress gave the following order, " That the 
board of war cause the rampart muskets in their possession to be repaired 
and forwarded with all possible dispatch to the executives of Virginia 
and North Carolina a quantity not exceeding two thousand to each State 

2 The letter is signed " D. Witherspoon" (no doubt the " D " is a printer's error), 
but it is evidently by Dr. John Witherspoon. 

[288]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 69; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, L 97. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 28 (pp. 913, 916), 29 (pp. 916, 918). 
[289]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



September, 1781 205 

charging to the said States respectively the value of the muskets with the 
expence of repairing and transporting them." 

As Virginia was soon after invaded by a large body of the enemy, the 
first of those arms that could be repaired were sent to that State, which 
enabled her to support the Marquis so effectually as to oblige the enemy 
to retreat from the upper country. The remainder of the old arms re- 
quired so much repairing that it was impossible to get those intended for 
North Carolina forwarded as soon as could be wished. 

About three weeks ago, when it was reported that Lord Cornwallis 
intended to come up the bay to Baltimore, on a request of the Govr. of 
Maryland, five hundred of those arms intended for North Carolina were 
immediately sent down to Baltimore for the defence of that State. 

There are now near one thousand muskets and I believe fifteen hundred 
cartouch boxes and a quantity of fixed amunition ready for transporta- 
tion to North Carolina. On the application of Genl. Knox, the board of 
war reported and Congress concurred therewith yesterday that those arms 
should be forwarded to the southern army and be subject to the disposal 
of the Commander in Chief or the commanding officer of the southern 
department, the order of the 26th of April notwithstanding. 

North Carolina is so destitute of arms, the causes of which need not 
now be enumerated, that she is not able to arm one third of the new levies 
raised, in the state, nor can she arm her militia to any considerable amount. 

The order of the 26. of April with all the ulterior proceedings and stages 
of this business have been accurately communicated to the State by her 
delegates here and it has reason to expect those arms etc. are by this time 
on the way. 

Your Excellency will therefore easily conceive how painful and disa- 
greeable the resolution of yesterday will be when the government is 
informed of it. 

I have thought it my duty to inform you of these circumstances and beg 
leave to add, an assurance that myself and the state which I have the honor 
to represent have entire confidence in your abilities and disposition to 
support and defend every State in the union. 



290. The President of Congress to the Comte de Rochambeau.^ 

Philada. September 4th. 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to express to your Excellency the satisfaction of 
Congress in the compliment which has been paid to them by the Troops 
of his most Christian Majesty under your Command. The brilliant ap- 
pearance, and exact discipline of the several Corps do the highest honor 
to their Officers, and afford a happy presage of the most distinguished 
services in a cause which they have so zealously espoused. 

[ ago] ^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 70; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, L 98. 



206 Continental Congress 

291. Thomas McKean to Arthur Lee.* 
<-,. Philadelphia, September 4th, 1781. 

. . . .- The Court of France have really exerted themselves, far beyond 
any thing done heretofore, and have given full proof, how much they have 
our Independence at heart. In a few weeks more, I trust, I shall have it 
in my power to mention additional evidences of their most faithful attach- 
ment. The King has written a very friendly letter to Congress, and pre- 
sented their special Minister Colo, Laurens with an elegant gold box, 
having his picture in the lid, ornamented with diamonds, etc., nearly re- 
sembling the one you had the honor of receiving. 

On Saturday last, about one o'clock P. M., Sir Samuel Hood, with 
22 ships of the line, was seen, about 25 miles Southward of Shrewsbury, 
steering to the Southward ; I suppose for Chesepeake. In all probability 
we shall soon hear of a Sea Engagement. We are at the eve of great 
events; may God grant them to be prosperous to us, and that they may 
terminate in securing to us, peace, liberty, and safety. 

292. Thomas McKean to Richard Henry Lee.* 

Sept. 4, 1 78 1. 
The deranged state of our finances has given us infinite trouble and 
concern; a new plan has been adopted which is published in the news- 
papers, to which I shall refer you. If it can be carried into execution it 
will be a great relief to us, and I see nothing else left, but for every whig 
to exert himself in its support. There is no great prospect of peace, though 
the late intelligence from Europe is otherwise favourable, I suspect that 
Mr. Temple, (who came over in 1778 with Doctor Berkenhout,) will 
shortly venture here again, with propositions, (perhaps secret,) to ac- 
knowledge the independence of the states, except South Carolina and 
Georgia, and that part of Massachusetts, formerly called the province of 
Maine, on conditions of our neutrality between Britain and Spain; he is 
to have power to call on two merchants in London, of his own nomina- 
tion, ad libitum 

293. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).* 

<-.. Philadelphia Sepr. 4th 1781. 

.... We have the pleasure to inform you that General Washington 
with a part of the American army, and the Count de Rochambeau with 

[291P Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, II. 224, no. 61 ; R. H. Lee, Life of Richard Henrx 
Lee, II. 178. 

2 Omitted passages speak of the march of the armies through Philadelphia and 
the arrival of John Laurens from his mission. Samuel Adams wrote McKean Aug. 29: 
" Colo. John Laurens with our Friend Mr. Pain arrivd here a few Days ago from France. 
He left the Town the Day xAfter his arrival. His Visit to me was so short that I could 
not converse with him so fully as I wishd. I hope he will be able to inform you of his 
complete Success in his Negociation " {Writings, ed. Gushing, IV. 260). Cf. nos. 292, 300, 
post. 

[292]^ R. H. Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 176 (extract). 

[293P Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 388. The letter is 
signed by Jones, Madison, and Bland. 



September, 1781 207 

the whole of the French are thus far on their way to Virginia. The 
American troops passed through the Town on Sunday, the first division 
of the French yesterday and the second will follow them tomorrow. The 
fine appearance they make as men, the perfection of their discipline as 
soldiers, and the zealous attachment they manifest to the Allies of their 
Sovereign authorise the highest expectations from their services in the 

field 

Yesterday returned to this place Col. John Laurens from his special 
Mission to the Court of France. Although his success has not fully 
corresponded with our wishes, he has brought with him very substantial 
proofs of the friendship and generosity of our Ally.- .... 

294. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Dear Sir, Ph.lada, Sept. 4 1781. 

.... Genl. Washington is here and a large division of the army dayly 
passing thro'. I had yesterday the pleasure to See the first division of the 
French. They marched through Front and Chesnut streets by the state 
house and so out to the Common where they encamped. The members of 
Congress were at the door of the state house and reed, from the officers 
of the army as they passed a royal salute. The ceremony on their part 
was to let fall the point of the sword, likewise the colours, and the members 
of Congress took off their hats. The engaging figure and behaviour of 
the officers of all ranks, their dress, the cavalry, musick, arms, artillery, 
the figure and behaviour of the privates, and the uniform motion of the 
whole, afforded the most pleasing prospect of the kind I ever saw.' .... 

[P. S.] I had the pleasure of seeing Genl. Hazzen, Col Dearburn and 
Mr. Oilman of Exeter on their way through the city. 

When Col Lawrence took leave of the king of France he was presented 
with a gold box, with the kings portrait, set round with brilliants, the most 
beautiful box I ever saw. 

295. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).* 

<-.. Philadelphia 4th Sept. 1781. 

.... We are very desirous of knowing the Resolutions of the State 
relative to the Duty upon Imports and prises. Had the states readily 

2 In a letter to Edmund Pendleton Sept. 3 (Library of Congress, Madison Papers, 
Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 158) Madison speaks in nearly the same language of the march 
of the troops through Philadelphia and of the arrival of Col. John Laurens, correctly 
stating that Laurens arrived "yesterday" (a letter from Laurens dated Sept. 2, announc- 
ing his arrival, was read in Congress Sept. 3). This letter to Nelson which says that 
Laurens returned " yesterday " may be erroneously dated. Sherman likewise says " yester- 
day" in his letter to Ellsworth Sept. 4 (no. 297, post). See Robert Morris to Franklin, 
Aug. 28, Sept. 7, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 666, 667. 

[294]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 50. 

2 In the next paragraph Livermore speaks of the success of John Laurens's mission. 

[295]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Ciovernors, 1781-1782, p. 20 (signed by Mowry and 
Varnum) ; Staples, /?. /. in Cont. Cong., p. 350. 



208 Continental Congress 

adopted that Measure, we should before this Time, have derived more 
than an hundred thousand dollars Specie by this Time [sic'\. One cargo 
has arrived in this City, which would have paid upwards of seven Thou- 
sand Pounds this Currency. When we assure you that not a Farthing 
of money has been paid into the General Treasury from any of the states, 
excepting Pennsyvania, for more than a Year Since, you will agree with 
us that permanent Revenues are absolutely necessary, 

296. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, 4th Sepr., 1781. 
Sir, 

.... The Superintendant of Finance is making arrangements to save 
expence. The Board of Admiralty and the Navy Boards are to be abol- 
ished, and the remains of the Navy is to be managed by an agent, with 
a salary of 1500 dollars per annum, who is allowed one clerk with a salary 
of 500 dollars. The Board of Treasury and Chambers of Accounts are 
also to be abolished, and a Controller and a suitable number of Auditors 
are to be appointed to liquidate the public accounts. The supply of pro- 
visions is to be by contract, as soon as matters can be prepared for it.^ 
The Court of France are friendly to our cause and willing to afiford us 
what aids they can, but think we might do more toward carrying on the 
war from our own resources, without being so dependent for money on 
France 

It is necessary that one or more delegates should come immediately; 
there are but eight of the States represented. 'Tis probable that delegates 
will arrive soon from the State of Vermont. I have enclosed several of 
the latest news papers, but they dont contain much news. 

297. Roger Sherman to Oliver Ellsworth/ 

Philadelphia Septr. 4th, 1781. 
Sir, 

Col. John Lawrence arrived here Yesterday from France.^ he accomp- 
lished the business he was charged with to good satisfaction, he designs 
now immediately to joyn the army, he has obtained clothing for the army 
and about 13000 muskets and a considerable quantity of Military stores, 
besides a sum of money — near two million Livres is arrived. The French 
army passed thro' this city yesterday toward Virginia. Congress has 
passed a resolution to put the Navy under the direction of an agent who 
is allowed one Clerk, the agents Salary 1 500 dollars a year.' 

[296] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 266. 

2 See nos. 304, 313, post. 
[297] 1 From the original in the Sprague Collection, Congregational Library, London. 
2 Laurens's arrival in Philadelphia was on Sept. 2. See no. 293, note 2, ante. In 
his letter to the governor (no. 296, ante) Sherman speaks in much the same terms of 
Laurens's mission. 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 29, Sept. 7. 



September, 1781 209 

I dont learn that Col Lawrence brings any news respecting the politics 
of Europe. I hope to hear from you by the next Post. 
I am your very humble Servt. 

Roger Sherman 



297A. William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 4th, 1781. 
My dear Genl.^ 

I have received your favour of the 28th of July by Major Burnet and 
will pay every mark of attention to that young gentleman. 

You will doubtless be informed by the commander in chief of the 
change in the northern system of military operations. There is nothing 
wanting to finish a fine prospect, but the safe arival of comte de Grasse, 
the announcing of which we wait with great anxiety. 

Colo. Laurens has arived from france and brought to Boston sixteen 
thousand eight hundred stand of arms, materials for near ten thousand 
suits of cloaths, a considerable quantity of military stores, medicines etc. 
He has also obtained and brought from the coffers of our ally a con- 
siderable sum of solid coin, which under the direction of Mr. Morris 
will give vigor to our military operations. All my aid and industry will 
be used to furnished you and your little distressed army with some 
necessaries as soon as possible. 

If the naval operations of our ally should prove successful this cam- 
paign we have every thing to hope and nothing to fear. I wish the several 
States could be impressed with the necessity of preparing for a vigorous 
prosecution of the war for a number of campaigns yet to come as the 
most effectual way to obtain a speedy and honorable peace. 

I hope to set off from this place on my way homeward on the first of 
next month.' 

I shall ever entertain a lively sense of your labors and sufferings and 
that of your army in the southern department and the very essential 
services which you have rendered the injured and distressed southern 
states. 

With the most sincere respect and esteem I have the honor to be My 
dear general 

Your most obedient Humble Servt. 

Wm. Sharpe 

[397 A] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Charles F. Jenkins of Philadelphia. 

- Addressed, *' The Honorable Major General Greene commanding Southern de- 
partment favour Mr. Wilkinson ". 

3 See no. 308, post. Samuel Tohnston wrote to James Iredell from Hayes, N. C, 
Sept. 24 : "By Mr. Sharpe's letter, which you were so obliging as to forward, I learn that 
the Commander-in-Chief had raised the siege of New York, and ordered all the French 
troops, and three thousand Continentals, under the command of Gen. Lincoln, to Virginia ; 
these troops had actually passed through Philadelphia the 3d, and are undoubtedly arrived 
in Virginia" {Life of Iredell, I. 551). Maj. Edward Giles, writing from AnnapoHs 
Aug. 31 to Richard Howly, referred to Washington's movement southward, and inquired 
after the status of the Vermont affair. Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C 



210 Continental Congress 

298. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates.^ 
Tijr f) f- 1 Philadelphia Aug. [September] 6th, 1781. 

.... As General W will be so near you, it will give you the 

opportunity of agreeing on some mode of Determining that which must 
give you so much anxiety. I am satisfied how pleasing it would be to 
you to contribute your aid in terminating this great Question of our 
independence — and indeed the everlasting honors that must attend all 
who are concerned in this great business, shew the propriety of your 
taking a part in the close, who bore so great a share in the former stages 
of this Just war.^ 

Col. John Laurens is returned from France, having successfully com- 
pleated the object of his Embassy — in a Word, the affairs of the States 
never bore so prosperous an appearance as at present. Yet Britain, unfeel- 
ing unjust Britain, still pursues her chimera — at the time her Empire in 
all parts of the world is tumbling to pieces with a precipitation, unknown 
in any former Era. 

299. The President of Congress to Robert R. Livingston.^ 
j^. Philadelphia Sep 6 1781. 

Your favour of the 25th of August last was received on the 3d instant 
and read in Congress. In answer thereto you will receive enclosed here- 
with two Acts of Congress of the loth and 17th of January last, which 

1 hope will be satisfactory. 

The Office of Secretary for foreign affairs is one of the most honorable 
in the gift of Congress, and will not in my opinion be attended with 
much drudgery; the liberty to attend Congress, and the constant inter- 
course with the Members, distinguish it from any other, and will I flatter 
myself, have a tendency to induce your acceptance of it.^ 

300. Thomas McKean to Thomas Rodney.^ 

Dear Sir, 

Admiral de Grasse, with twenty eight Ships of the line, two 44 and 

2 frigates of 32 each, and a cutter of 18 Guns, having on board four 
thousand Troops, arrived in Chesapeake Bay on the 26th of August last. 
For further particulars I refer you to the Hand-Bill inclosed, which I had 
struck off on the occasion. 

Colo. Laurens has come to Congress and successfully executed his 
mission as our special Minister at the court of Versailles. He arrived at 

[298]iN. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, box i6, no. 6i (addressed, "Honorable Major 
General Gates, Berkely County Virginia"). 

2 Gates wrote to Jefferson Aug. 2 : "A Motion for rescinding the Resolve of the 
Sth of October has been several times made in Congress, but once to my astonishment 
was prevented being carried by a Mr. Maddison of This State, a Gentleman I do not 
know, and who I am satisfied does not know me." Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

[299] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, L 102 (draft) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 72. 

2 Livingston's letter of Aug. 25 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 66i. A letter 
of acceptance, dated Sept. 23, is ibid., p. 727. See however the Journals, Oct. i. 

[300] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 



September, 1781 211 

Boston on the 26th of August in the frigate Resolute,' and was accom- 
panied by three others : They are loaded with arms, amunition, ordnance, 
cloathing etc. for our army, and he has besides brought over a large sum 
of money in specie; the amount I am not at liberty to mention, but I can 
tell you it is more than one hundred thousand pounds sterling, and that 
more is expected.' .... 

Philadelphia, September 6, 1781. 

301. Edmund Randolph to Thomas Jefferson.^ 
Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 7. 1781. 

By the last post I suggested to you that our European affairs would 
probably bear greater delay than you apprehended. What you call your 
temporary disability will be removed early enough to allow you to reach 
France by January. From Colo. Laurens's account I am induced to be- 
lieve, that Great Britain will never admit an American plenipotentiary 
into the congress before which a general pacification is to be agitated, 
tmtil some humiliating stroke of war, and until such admission, France 
will not negotiate on the subject. These considerations fully answer your 
objection, and gives me an opportunity of wishing for authority to say, 
that you will embark upon the embassy.' 

302. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

^l^ Philadelphia, September 7.- 1781. 

.... By a letter from the Marquis Lefayette to the Minister received 
last Evening, the Count De Grasse arrived on the thirty first, had landed 

5000 Men including Marines We are anxious to hear of Count 

de Barras with his fleet from Rhode Island, who sailed from thence the 
25th as was said, to join De Grasse. General Washington was at the 

Head of Elke yesterday about noon Our expectations are greatly 

raised Colo. Lawrence has returned from France and has been 

very successful in his Embassy of which I shall inform you by Colo. Hay, 
who has been necessarily detained longer than he expected, but probably 
will set of next Day after tomorrow.^ .... 

303. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Dear Sir, Philadelphia, September 8, 1781. 

I have been honored with your private letter of the 26th of August, 

and your official one of the same date (by Colo. Hay) for which I have 

2 In his letter to .\rthur Lee (no. 291, ante, passage omitted) McKean calls the 
ship the Resolution. The name was actually Resolue. 

3 Cf. no. 293, ante. 

[301 ]i Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Autographs, p. 77. 

2 Jefferson replied Sept. 16 iWritings, III. 49). See no. 263, ante, no. 419, note 2. 
post. 

[302]! Clinton Papers, VII. 308. 

2 See no. 240, note 2, ante, nos. 303, 304, post. 
[303]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 192 (marked "private"). 



212 Continental Congress 

many thanks to return." I readily agree with you that so flagrant a breach 
of faith and violation of the Confederation, so soon after its ratification, 
as the late proceedings relative to the New Hampshire Grants has a 
tendency to destroy all confidence in that body whose engagements ought 
to be held sacred. When the principles of justice once give way to those 
of expediency it is impossible to tell where the evil will end. Some of the 
Southern States allthough they voted for the present measures are very 
fearful of the consequences; and anticipate the evils that may befal their 
own States in consequence thereof. Had not the Southern States been 
invaded, 'tis my opinion, we should not have seen the present resolution; 
by this the New England States acquired an importance they never ex- 
perienced before. I think it more than probable, that after the return of 
the agents from Vermont, if they should propose terms which should be 
thought reasonable many of the States would endeavor to refer it to 
New York and New Hampshire with recommendation to relinquish their 
several jurisdictions (the Massachusetts having already passed a law for 
that purpose). I am more induced to believe this will be attempted, as 
many gentlemen from the Southward are fully of opinion that Congress 
has no authority to admit those people into the Federal Union as a sepa- 
rate State on the present principles. Since the departure of Ira Allen 
and his associates, we have had a very thin Congress, when before there 
was twelve States represented and one member from the thirteenth, which 
shews what pains were taken to carry a favorite point to the New Eng- 
land States.^ Your letter to the President of Congress, with Governor 
Trumbull's letter and the answer from your Excellency were read by the 
Secretary and committed to a Special Committee who have not yet re- 
ported. I had some days before moved for a special Committee to report 
specially on the papers and other information given relative to the com- 
missions issued by Governor Trumbull. Mr. Sherman, the only member 
now here from Connecticut urged that it might be delayed till the Gov'r 
could be heard from, as he was satisfied the Commissions were called in 
and the plundering would cease; some other States supported him and 
the motion was lost. I conclude the Committee do not report expecting 
a letter from Gov'r Trumbull to Congress by the next post on the Subject. 
You may rest assured that we shall not be inattentive to a matter in which 
the State is so greatly interested.* .... Colo. Hay has necessarily been 
detained here longer than he would have been, on account of the move- 
ment of the Army, Much of the time of this week having been taken up 
by Congress in settling etiquettes and in paying and receiving compliments 
from the General Officers and Army. Count de Rochambeau ordered his 
whole Army to march by the City Hall and to salute Congress as a crowned 
head, and the President as the first prince of the blood. How do you 
think friend Thomas felt ? ^ It has been with some difficulty that we have 

2 The private letter to L'Hommedieu is in Clinton Papers, VII. 151 ; for the public 
letter see no. 304, note 2, post. 

2 See nos. 284, 285, ante, no. 304, post. 

* Clinton's letter of Aug. 25 (Clinton Papers, VII. 251) was referred to a com- 
mittee Sept. 4, and the committee made a report Oct. 11. L'Hommedieu's motion does 
not appear to be recorded in the Journals. See no. 281, ante, no. 304, post. 

'•> " Friend Thomas " is Thomas McKean, president of Congress. Cf. nos. 291, 
293, 294, ante. 



September, 178 1 213 

been able to procure the enclosed resolution ( which is not certified by the 
Secretary, the minutes not having been read since its passing) which is 
not so full and agreeable to our wishes as we intended. The Quarter 
Master has his friends, and those that justify him, tho' few in number. 
Eight States only are represented. One was divided, one voted against, 
whereby some other parts of the report was lost ; to wit, that the certifi- 
cates given to the State agent shall be credited to the quota of supplies 
required of the said State. This part being reconsidered was referred 
to the financier, where 'tis likely it will remain dormant till the account 
is settled. If we can get the certificates with the quantity of forage ascer- 
tained, we can easily have it in our power to make the discompt." .... 

304. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

^ ^. Phil.\delphia 9th September 1781. 

We were duly honoured with your Excellency's Despatches of the 25th. 
26th and 27th of August to which we shall pay all possible Attention." 

Your Excellency's Observations on the Vermont Business are con- 
clusive, the Effect of them would have been and still may be, a Suspension 
of the Controversy but this we had every Reason to believe was not the 
Intention or even the W^ish of the Legislature from every Gentleman 
with whom we conversed, we were taught that any Decision was prefer- 
able to Delay: and that as internal Dissentions would arise from a 
Reference to our own Legislature, it would not be expedient to shift the 
ultimate Admission or Rejection of the Claim from the United States 
to those which were immediately interested. Indeed from the Terms of 
our Instructions we were unauthorized to countenance or interfere in any 
Act which was not grounded on the Merits of the Controversy with 
Respect to Right and the Evidence submitted to Congress, it would other- 
wise have been no hard Matter to give the Business the Turn your Excel- 
lency suggests, our Situation is too embarrassed to acquire any Credit 
in this disagreeable Subject. We shall inflexibly continue to dissent from 
any Prof>ositions repugnant to our Instructions, by which we hold our- 
selves bound, if we succeed in procuring a Recognition and Guarantee 
of our remaining Territorial Rights, it is the best Compromise that we 
can foresee, even this will be attended with Difficulty : we hear Nothing 
from the Grants, and it is more than probable their internal Animosities 
with respect to the People on the East Side of the River (who will not 
readily yeild their Project of Independence) will protract the Business 
untill the next Sessions of the Legislature.^ 

« See no. 302, ante, no. 304, post. 
[304]! N. Y. State Lib., Legislative Papers, no. 2441 (copy). The letter is signed by 
Duane and L'Hommedieu. 

2 No letter of Aug. 25 to the delegates has been found, but one of that date to 
Congress is noted (no. 303, note 4, ante). The letters of Aug. 26 and 27 are in Clinton 
Papers, VIL 259, 260. A related letter dated Aug. 22 is ibid., p. 242. The last-mentioned 
letter is concerning Dr. Joseph Young (see the Journals, Sept. 20) ; that of Aug. 26 relates 
to Dr. Stephen McCrea (see ibid., Sept. 14, 27) ; that of Aug. 27 to these two physicians 
and to Col. Van Schaick (see note 7, below). 

" See no. 303, note 3, ante, nos. 332, 405-407, 414, 416, post. 



214 Continental Congress 

Before the Receipt of Your Excellency's Despatches we had revived 
the Business of the Plunder on Long Island by Pretext of Governor 
Trumbull's Commission, and insisted on the Incompetency and even Im- 
propriety of a Desire to revoke those Commissions; because it implied 
a Right to grant them. Mr. Sherman assured Congress that the Recom- 
mendation would have its full Effect, and as sufficient Time had not 
then elapsed for an Answer it ought not to be pressed, for this Reason 
it was postponed by the Unanimous Wish of Congress, tho' without put- 
ting any formal Question; and it rests with us to resume it the first 
convenient Opportunity, if Govr. Trumbull does not give the Satisfaction 
required of him, the Sufferers will in some Measure be redressed by the 
Repeal of the Sentences below, which we take for granted.* We have 
attentively considered your Excellency's Observations respecting the 
Expiration of our Authority. They have certainly great Weight; but 
your Wish that we should continue here 'till the 15th of Octbr. has 
determined us to wait as long as our Finances will permit, which will be 
something Short of the Period you mention. '^ if the Agents for the 
Grants appear in the mean Time, the Expedient of a Protest may be 
adopted. 

The Conduct of the Quarter Master General in West Chester County re- 
specting Forage, is not, nor can it be justified, one dissenting and one divid- 
ing State prevented us from obtaining a Resolution agreeably to our own 
Wishes. Those States did not object because the Quarter Master's Princi- 
ple was defensible, but because a general Rule ought to be laid down 
which would relieve all States and Individuals under the like Circum- 
stances, however if no Alteration is made in the Act passed yesterday 
it will be sufficient for our Purpose, as to the Individuals being paid by 
Congress, it will be out of the Question 'till the publick Treasury is re- 
plenished, if the Debt is acknowledged he must be contented, if what 
relates to the State is ascertained we shall take Credit for it.* Col. Van 
Schaick has unquestionably been ill treated, and we approve of his not 
joining the Army until Justice is done him. in fact Congress know not 
what to do for him unless by adding Two Brigadiers General to the List 
to raise him and Greaton up to the Rank of Hazen who has superseded 
them both, he cannot be permitted to retire on Halfpay by any Act of 
Congress which will not imply a Disgrace. We shall try what can be done, 
in the mean Time he is paying a Visit to a Friend in New Jersey where 
he waits the Event. ^ .... 

Since our Arrival here the Plan for choosing an Agent instead of a 
Secretary of Marine has been adopted, but the Number of our Ships 
still decreasing by a recent Loss and being reduced to two we have trans- 

* See no. 303, note 4, ante. 

^ The governor's observations on the expiration of the delegation's term of service 
were probably in the letter of Aug. 25 which is missing. See no. 252, note 4, ante, nos. 326, 
327, post. 

^ See nos. 302 (note 2), 303, ante. 

7 See the Journals, June 29, Aug. 31, Sept. 3, 4. For further proceedings in the 
case of Van Schaick see nos. 428, 434, post, and the Journals for 1782 and 1783. Accord- 
ing to Heitman (Hist. Reg.) he was made brigadier-general by brevet Oct. 10, 1783. 



September, 1781 215 

f erred the Business at present to the Financier.^ The Treasury Board 
will be dissolved and a Plan more simple and expeditious instituted, it is 
now forming into an Ordinance the Substance having already been agreed 
to.' Col. Laurence our special Minister to the Court of Versailles is 
returned and has executed his Mission with great Propriety and Success, 
it has been the Means of enabling us among other good Things to advance 
the New York Line, Officers and Men a Month's Pay in Specie, yester- 
day they received it at the Head of Elk. we suffered the greatest anxiety 
'till this Object was accomplished, for the Discontent of the Corps was 
great and just as well among the Officers as Soldiers.'" 

305. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 9th Septemb'r 1781. 

.... Since your Excellency's departure we have thrown the solitary 
Renmant of our marine into the Management of our Financier. It will 
save a Capital Expence as the admiralty Navy Boards and their subordi- 
nate offices are dissolved. When the number of our ships and the Circum- 
stances of our Treasury Justify it, the Appointment of the Minister of 
the Marine will be seasonable. The Board of the Treasury and its de- 
pendents will in a few days undergo a similar Reform I expect those 
measures will prove a fruitful source of invective against those who have 
introduced and pressed them, and I am content to take my share. 

I have the pleasure to transmit this Letter by L[ieut.] Col. Laurens. 
In the Execution of his late Mission he has acqui[red] great honour and 
given entire satisfaction. From having his Report under consideration 
as a member of a special Committee I had an opportunity of minute 
enquiry and I am convinced he has done every thing which coud be ex- 
pected, under delicate circumstances, from an able minister. He has justly 
increased his Reputation by asking leave immediately after his Report 
to take the Field, and by declining any Recompense for His essential 
services. A disinterestedness which forms a striking Contrast between 
him and some other characters! Congress have given him a testimonial 
of their approbation which I do myself the Honour to enclose. I wish it 
may be in your Excellency's power to distinguish Col Laurens by a Com- 
mand. You may be assured that it will be highly pleasing to Congress. - 

* See the Journals, July 18, Aug. 29, Sept. 7 ; also Robert Morris's letter Sept. 8, 
in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 702. Concerning the election of a secretary of marine 
see nos. 14, 25, 67, ante. 

* The ordinance for regulating the treasury was adopted Sept. 11. For prior pro- 
ceedings see the Journals, Aug. 24 (committee on letter of the superintendent of finance), 
27, Sept. ID. 

1" Concerning the one month's pay to the army see the correspondence between 
Morris and Washington, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 641, 650, 651, 693, 699, 700, 701, 
703, 718, 719, 729, 737- 

[305]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Mis- 
cellaneous (draft) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 401. 

2 The committee of which Duane speaks (appointed Sept. 3 on Laurens's letter 
of Sept. 2) made a report Sept. 4. A further report, including the resolution of approba- 
tion, was brought in and acted upon Sept. 5. Laurens's letter of Sept. 2, setting forth a 
history of his negotiations, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 685. Another letter, 
Sept. 6 (ibid., p. 700), was read in Congress Sept. 7 and referred to the same committee. 
A second letter of Sept. 6 was read in Congress Sept. 10. 



216 Continental Congress 

306. The President of Congress to the States of New Jersey and 

Pennsylvania.^ 

Philada. Septr. nth, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith an Act of Congress of 
yesterday, containing a requisition of three thousand Militia of each of 
the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, to be properly officered and 
equipped. An apprehension of a sudden invasion of the State of New 
Jersey, and of an attempt on Philadelphia, by the Enemy, in New York, 
gave rise to this recommendation; and the safety of both will, I rest 
assured, induce each State to make the most strenuous efforts on this 
occasion. 

I wish you all manner of success in this arduous work, and that the 
machinations of our Enemies may be entirely defeated.* 

307. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia nth Septr. 1781. 
.... To my great Satisfaction Col. Laurens is returned having exe- 
cuted his Mission with great Reputation to himself and advantage to his 
country. His expences were within 300 Guineas; he refused any other 
compensation and applied immediately for leave to take the field, A noble 
Instance of disinter [est] edness and publick zeal : and the more remarkable 
as this patriot is deprived of his whole fortune by the Course of the War. 
I drew down much abuse by the part I took in this Mission. Success has 
justified it.^ .... 

308. William Sharpe to Samuel Huntington.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 11, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . ^ Colo. Laurens has executed his mission with admirable effect 
and dispatch. He has brought to Boston 17,000 stand of arms a large 
quantity of cloathing — military stores, medicine, etc. etc. He has also 
brought from the coffers of our ally two million five hundred thousand 
livres. This under the direction of Mr. Morris will give vigor to our 
military operations. On the whole our affairs at present wear a pleasing 
aspect ; but let us remember that naval and military operations are attended 

[306]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 75 ("For Governor Living- 
ston"; at foot, " N. B. The like verbatim to h. El. President Reed") ; Pa. Arch., first 
sen, IX. 395. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. lo, 17, and Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 395-399 ; cf. ibid., 
pp. 387, 388, 393, 404, 412-415 ; also no. 309, post. 

[307] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, II. 255 (copy). 

2 Duane appears to have initiated the movement to send Laurens on the mission ; 
he was at least active in promoting it. See especially the Journals, Oct. 25, 1780 (p. 977 n.) ; 
also Nov. i8, 22, 28, 29, Dec. i, 9, n, 21, 23, 25-28, 1780. 
[308] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1190. 

2 The passage omitted is devoted to various items of military news and comment 



September, 178 1 217 

with all those contingencies and uncertainty to which human affairs are 
liable. 

I beg Mrs. Huntington may accept my best compliments. 

P. S. I shall depart hence the ist Octr.^ 

309. Thomas McKe.\n to George Washington.* 

(private) 
Sir, 

The following intelligence, tho' not derived thro' any official or authentic 
channel, appears to be of sufficient consequence to be communicated to 
you without delay. I have just now received intelligence, that a Brig 
arrived at New- York on Monday last from England, with Dispatches 
for Admiral Digby; she sailed nine days after the Admiral. On Tuesday 
two Frigates came up, who announced the arrival of Admiral Digby on 
the coast (the number of Men of war not known) with a Fleet consisting 
of upwards of an hundred Sail, having Troops on Board, the amount 
not mentioned : these Frigates returned for the Admiral in a few hours. 

Two dispatch Vessels had arrived from Cornwallis, after the appearance 
of the french Fleet in Chesepeake. Between thirty and forty large Trans- 
ports lay at New- York on Tuesday ready to sail, and more were getting 
ready — Sir Henry Clinton is said to be going with them. Their destina- 
tion unknown, but conjectured to be either for Virginia or Delaware Bay. 
From forty to sixty Negroes are sent on Board these vessels, who are 
said to belong to persons in Virginia, and are to be returned to their re- 
spective Masters by the advice of Lord Cornwallis. 

On Sunday Arnold returned to New- York from an Expedition to New- 
London in Connecticut, leaving his Troops on Board the Transports in 
Huntington Bay. He has destroyed all the Stores and Shipping at that 
place, except six vessels that escaped by favor of the wind. The two 
fortifications there were taken by Assault, and all put to the sword, except 
eleven men, who had hid themselves. After plundering New-London he 
burnt it, leaving only three or four houses standing. It is said, he is 
going on another Expedition immediately. 

The Minister of France will communicate this intelligence to Count de 
Grasse. An anxiety to be serviceable induces me to give you this informa- 
tion, tho' the evidence of the truth of it is not quite satisfactory, as I 
have not a line respecting any part of it from any person officially, not 
even of the destruction of New-London — General Heath, indeed in a Post- 

" Sharpe probably took his departure at the time indicated ; he was at all events 
absent Oct. 8 (see the Journals). His account for attendance was adjusted by the Nortii 
Carolina assembly May 14, 1782 {N. C. State Recs., XVI. 156), his period of service 
being fixed as from Sept. 3, 1780, to Oct. 27, 1781. The assembly settled at the same time 
(see ibid., pp. 110, 160) the account of Thomas Burke for the whole of his periods of 
attendance, which began Feb. 4, 1777, and ended Feb. 28, 1781. Burke's letter requesting 
this settlement, dated May 3, 1782, and addressed to the " Speaker of the House of Com- 
mons ", is in the files of N. C Hist. Comm. 

[309] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, 
n. 3 (draft). 

18 



218 Continental Congress 

script to his letter of the 5th instant, mentions, that 26 large Ships were 
seen sailing up the Sound opposite to Stamford on the Sunday preceding, 
but he had learned nothing more of them. 

By the english papers, as well as Rivington's Gazette, Digby's Fleet 
is said to consist of ten Ships of the line; therefore I do not think they 
can exceed that number, tho' they may be less. 

There are three thousand Militia to be forthwith embodyed in this 
State, and the like number in New-Jersey. The requisition of Congress 
has been already received by the respective Governors, and orders are gone 
out in consequence. 

Never had we occasion for more wisdom, vigilance and activity. I pray 
God to preserve your health, and to guide, direct and protect us all in this 
hour of trial ; and am. Sir, with unfeigned respect and esteem,' 

Your Excellency's Most obedient and most humble Servant 

Thos. M : Kean 
Philadelphia September 15, 1781. 

310. The Secretary of Congress to Meriwether Smith. ^ 

Sir, 

You desire to know my Opinion with regard to the sentiments and 
conduct of Congress in the Advances made to members on account of 
their States in the fall of the year 1779. I have examined the journals 
to assist my recollection. The practice of making advances to individual 
Members was first introduced from necessity and was practised partially 
and sparingly ; afterwards it became so general that most of the members 
and states seemed to depend upon it. Some of the states seemed at last 
to disapprove the measure, and as far as I can recollect the Members 
from New Jersey first testified against it. And I well remember that some 
members seemed pleased with the vote of Congress for stopping farther 
emissions, as this would naturally put an end to such grants. However 
Money was still granted to members on their application, but it always 
appeared to me to be given with reluctance after that vote, and the re- 
luctance seemed to encrease as the money in the treasury diminished, until 
at last it produced a regular motion to put a total stop to such advances. 
This, from the circumstances of individuals who were too far distant 
from home to receive immediate supplies, was at that time waved. But 
soon after a recommendation was sent to the states to make provision 
for their respective delegates. The above is the most succinct and satis- 
factory account I can give of the matter.^ 

I am with much respect S'r 

Your most obedient humble servt 
Sept. 15, 1 78 1. Chas. Thomson 

2 See no. 306, ante ; cf. the Virginia delegates to Governor Nelson, Sept. 18, in 
Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 459 (passage omitted in no. 314, post). Washington's reply, 
Sept. 23, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 163. See also nos. 312, 351, post. 
[310]! Va. State Lib., Elxecutive Papers. 

2 The resolution to which Thomson refers was doubtless that of Sept. 29, 1780, 
upon a motion of Timothy Matlack of Pennsylvania, seconded by Houston of New Jersey. 



September, 1781 219 

311. James Lovell to Mrs. Abigail Adams.^ 

Sept. 15, 1781. 
Madam, 

.... I have no Copy of any Letter to you but I imagine I was not 
very unconnected or enigmatical. If you had ventured to converse with 
Mr. S. A. you would have found that yr. all is not servile enough to gain 
the unbounded affection of the foreign Court at which he resided when 
he had the Correspondence which produced the two Resolves of Congress 
already communicated to you you would have found that [Gravier] ' 
wrote two Letters in a Pet against Mr. A to [old F-k-l-n]. and that the 
latter had also written a most unkind and stabbing one hither ; which he 
was under no necessity of doing, as he needed only to have transmitted 
the papers given to him, for the Purpose, by the former. This Knowledge 
would have prepared you for my last Letter in Cyphers; and for the 
Information that Mr. A has now [no distinct Powers]. I shall write 
minutely in Cyphers " on this subject " to S. A and you must have it at 
2d hand. I will only say for your Satisfaction that I cannot accuse any 
one or more of any want of Esteem for Mr. A, but I see him indelicately 
handled by Means of wrong measures on a general Scale.' .... 

312. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

July [September] 15, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have already told you that the Resolves of the General Assembly of 
June 30th did not reach us till the 27th of Aug'st. They have been com- 
mitted to the Financier to whom had been before committed a Report 
ujx)n the Letter from Messrs. Gorham, Lowell and Higginson.* The 
Financier has been so pressed by the Business of the moving Army that 

If there was an earlier " regular motion " to that end it does not appear in the Journals. 
See vol. v., nos. 458, 459. For more recent action on behalf of the delegates of North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia see the Journals, July 10, 30, 31 ; cj. no. 314, post. 
Concerning the protracted settlement of Meriwether Smith's account as delegate in Con- 
gress see vol. IV., p. 465 n. 
[31 1 ]i Adams MSS., Boston. 

- That is, Gravier de Vergennes. Words in square brackets in this letter are 
written in cipher. See no. 166, note 2, ante. 

^ One of the letters from Vergennes to Franklin to which Lx)vell refers was that 
of July 31, 1780 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 18). Franklin's " stabbing letter " is that 
of Aug. 9, 1780 {ibid., p. 21). The correspondence between Adams and Vergennes, July 13 
to 29, 1780, which gave rise to the letters just mentioned is ibid., III. 848-883, IV. 4-17, 
passim. This correspondence was laid before Congress Dec. 26, 1780, and resulted in the 
adoption of a letter to Adams Jan. 10, 1781, which is also found ibid., IV. 229. See also 
Franklin to Adams, Oct. 8, 1780, ibid., IV. 86. The other letter from Vergennes to 
Franklin alluded to by Lovell is probably that of June 30, 1780 {ibid., III. 827), relative 
to another series of letters from Adams. Franklin's reply, July 10, is ibid., p. 844. The 
correspondence (June 20 to July i) to which these letters relate is ibid.. III. 805-832, 
passim. 

[313] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 It was presumably the Massachusetts resolves of June 30, that were laid before 
Congress Sept. 10. See no. 279, ante. The remark below that the financier had " digested 
the business" suggests that Lovell may have had knowledge of Morris's letter of Aug. 28, 
mentioned in the note just referred to. 



220 Continental Congress 

he has had almost no Leisure to plan Systems till within a Day or two, 
and I now know that he has digested the Business which you wrote about. 
I expect he will lay it before Congress on Monday : But I must own to 
you that I am sorry to have it so soon altho' 1 know our State expects a 
speedy answer to the Queries made about the old Emissions. We are now 
only 7/13 represented and there are the Delegates of the Culprit states 
to vote for Justice to Massachusetts. N. Hamp. Con : Jer : Del. Mar and 
N Car : are unrepresented. N Jersey and Maryland are much in the Con- 
dition of Massachusetts, as to Compliance with the Plan of March 18. 
I will give you the earliest Notice of the Proceedings of Congress upon 
the Report of the Financier 



313. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull),^ 

Philadelphia, Sepr. 15th, 1781. 
Sir, 

. . . .^ There is a Committee for making the estimate of supplies for 
next year. I suppose the mode of obtaining the supplies will be under the 
direction of the Superintendant of Finance.' By a resolution passed this 
week the navy is put under his direction until further orders, and the 
Board of Admiralty and Navy boards are abolished. There is also a new 
arrangement of the Treasury department, the Board is to be abolished 
the 20th of this month, there is to be a Controller, and as many Auditors 
and Clerks as the Superintendant shall judge necessary to liquidate public 
accounts.* A new arrangement of the Post Office is also preparing ; it is 
proposed to reduce the postage to what it was before the war, and so to 
regulate it that it may defray the charges of the office without expence 
to the public." .... 

I have heard nothing from the State of Vermont since their agents 
left this place in August, but expect delegates will soon arrive from thence 
to Congress, in case they comply with the only condition of their being 
admitted into the union, which is to relinquish their claims to the en- 
croachments lately made on the States of New Hamshire and New 
York.« .... 

There are five States not represented in Congress ; the President wrote 
by order of Congress to the executives of those States, to inform them 
of the necessity of their delegates coming on immediately. Those sent 
eastward were taken in the mail and carried to New York the beginning 
of this month. Congress have since ordered an escort for the safe con- 
veyance of the mail between Morristown and Fishkill 

[313]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 273. 

2 The omitted passage speaks of the mission of John Laurens, etc. 

8 See no. 356, post. 

* See the Journals, Sept. ir ; cf. no. 304, ante. 

' See the Journals, Aug. i, 2. Oct. 19, Nov. 22. 

« See no. 304, note 3, ante. 



September, ijSi 221 

314. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philadelphia Septr. i8th 1781. 
S'r, 

We have been honord with Y'r Excellency's favor of the 2d Inst : with 
its enclosures by Post.^ .... 

Mr. Pinnies letters shall be handed to Col : Petit, and every exertion 
in our power used to procure him and the State redress ; ' But in order 
to ensure Success in this attempt, we cannot too strongly inculcate the 
necessity of the accounts of the state and his department being adjusted, 
and sent on to the office of Finance for Settlement, for without Such an 
adjustment and a Balance appearing due to the State, we concieve it 
absolutely impracticable to bring Congress to assent to an advance on any 
consideration, having heretofore used our Utmost efforts in Vain for 
that Purpose * 

[P. S.] 

315. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).* 

Philadelphia, Sept. i8th 1781. 
Hon'd Sir, 

I am favourd with yours of the 3d instant inclos'g the vote concerning 
the state of y'r treasury and your want of specie to send on the beef cattle. 
I laid the matter immediately before Congress, and hope to get an answer 
soon.^ These difficulties do not come unexpectedly to me but we must 
make the best of it. Specie imported from France must circulate some 
where. I hope Newhampshire will get her share of it, by such articles 
as she can export. I observe the vote of the court for my remaining here, 
which is well, perhaps something more will be done before the Court 
rises. The delegation (of two) is too expensive. I believe we shall over- 
hall the Confederation, and perhaps allow small states to be represented 
by one delegate.^ 

[314]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (no. 10, signed by Jones, Madison, Bland, and 
Randolph) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 459. 

2 A letter of Sept. 2 to Congress is in Official Letters, III. 30, but none of that date 
to the delegates. 

3 Col. William Finnie was deputy quartermaster-general for the Southern depart- 
ment, appointed Mar. 28, 1776. 

•* In the passage here omitted the delegates refer particularly to their financial 
diflficulties. 

Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer wrote the same day to an imidentified correspondent [John 
Hall ?] discussing Maryland politics and relating foreign news. " The congress ", he re- 
marked, referring to the proposed congress of mediation, "is still talked of but the King 
of England persists in his former determination that American independence shall not be 
mentioned at it. So that it is probable we must fight on " (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., 
M. O. C). In a letter of the same date to Governor Lee, Daniel Carroll speaks of the 
European news and mentions the rumor of the arrival of Admiral Digby (N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Emmet Coll., no. 7^45 )• 

[315]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 48. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 17, and no. 324, post. 

3 See the " Exposition of the Confederation " reported by a committee Aug. 22. 



222 Continental Congress 

Thursday 13th Deer, next is resolved on by Congress for thanksgiving 
and a com'tee appointed to draw proclamation, 1 mention this as we were 
sometimes puzzled to know what to do about the Day. I inclose you a 
paper for the news. 

You can hardly conceive how much I long to see you and all friends 
in N. H, but I must submit. 

316. William Sharpe to Samuel Huntington.* 

Philadelphia Sepr. 18 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you on the nth by Mr. Brown.^ The affair of the infamous 
Arnold at New London is very serious. Surely that villain will not be 
permitted to go unpunished even in this life. 

There are vague reports via New York that Adm'l Digby with six 
ships of the line is on the coast. From several paragraphs in british pa[)ers 
there is reason to apprehend it may be true 

Yesterday the City was ringing with reports from Baltimore and the 
eastern Shore that the enemys fleet had entered the bay, but was driven 
out and dispersed by the french who were in pursuit of them, and it is 
added, they had captured and sent into the bay two british 74' s and one 
or two frigates. You know the credit that is generally due to Baltimore 
intelligence, yet there is a great air of authenticity in those reports 

Genl. Greene is like to get more effectual aid from North Carolina than 
he expected. 

By a private letter which I received from Genl. Greene yesterday I am 
happy to find that the conduct of Govr. Burke is satisfactory to him. 

P. S. I have this moment heard by two private letters just received 
from Baltimore and the western Shore that Count de Barras had arrived 
and brought in with him one 44, two frigates and two transports captured 
from the enemy. That the enemy had appeared in the bay and was driven 
out. On the whole I believe there has been some flurry which issued in 
our favour. W. S. 

317. The President of Congress to the President of Delaware 

(Caesar Rodney).* 

Philada. September 19th, 1781. 
Sir, 

By the advice of Congress I am to inform your Excellency, that I 
have just now got private information, that on Sunday last an embarka- 
tion of about five thousand troops had actually taken place at New- York, 
on board of eighty or ninety Transports which were then ready to sail. 
All the Troops from Long-Island, York-Island and Staten-Island are said 
to be on board, together with a great number of waggons, horses and light 
Artillery. Their destination is unknown, but rather supposed to be for 
the Delaware. 

[316)1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C, 

-Jesse Brown, the Connecticut express. The letter of Sept. 11 is no. 297A, ante. 
[317J1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 78. 



September, ijSi 223 

My informant further says, that on the 19th instant, (this day) a 
certain CorneHus Hatfield is to set off with dispatches for Lord CornwaUis 
in a small decked Schooner, of the barge or whale-boat construction, 
carrying a four pounder in the bow and ten or twelve swivels, and having 
sixteen oars. You will be pleased, Sir, to take the necessary precautions 
upon this intelligence; and if Cornelius Hatfield should be apprehended, 
I am to request that he may [be] securely confined and guarded. 

N. B. The same to the President of the Council of the eastern Shore 
of Maryland. 

318. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith the copy of an Act 
of Congress of the i8th instant, respecting retaliation for the repeated 
cruelties exercised and exercising uf>on the virtuous citizens of America 
by the Enemy, hitherto unexampled except by themselves. This Act re- 
quires no comment ; I wish it may have the desired effect. 

Last night I received a private account of the junction of the two Fleets 
under the Count de Barras and Count de Grasse, and that the Riihy of 
sixty four Guns and the Rainbow of forty four have been captured from 
the Enemy. I hope it is true 

It appearing probable to Congress that General Clinton may make some 
attempt on this city, they have adopted the most likely measures to defeat 
his design, by calling on the States of Delaware, Pennsylvania and New- 
Jersey for a large body of Militia, and have likewise thought it advise- 
able to detain General St. Clair and the recruits of the Pennsylvania line 
now in the State, for a few days in the neighborhood of this city." 

It is certain that the Spaniards have blockaded and invested Minorca ; 
I wish it had been Jamaica. By late accounts from France it appears, that 
the negotiation for a general peace will probably take place the ensuing 
winter but not before. 

Philadelphia, September 21, 1781. 

P. S. I have just now got certain information of the arrival of Admiral 
Graves within Sandy Hook yesterday; the Terrible of 74 Guns having 
sunk at Sea, and five more disabled by Count de Grasse. 

319. James Lovell to George Washington.^ 

Philada. Sepr. 21st, 1781. 
Sir, 

It is not improbable that the Enemy have a Plan of cyphering their 
Letters which is pretty general among their Chiefs. If so, your Excellency 

[318]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 8r ; 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, IL 7 (draft). 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 10, 12, 17, 19, 27 ; cf. no. 309, ante, nos. 323, 329, post. 

[319]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers (photostat from Gratz Coll., Hist. Soc. 
of Pa.). 



224 Continental Congress 

will perhaps reap Benefit from making your Secretary take a Copy of 
the Keys and observations which I send to General Greene, through your 
Care.^ 

320. James Lovell to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada. Sepr. 21st 1781. 
Sir, 

You once sent some papers to congress which no one about you could 
decypher. Should such be the Case with some you have lately forwarded, 
I presume that the Result of my Pains herein sent, will be useful to you. 
I took the Papers out of Congress, and I do not think it necessary to let 
it be known here what my Success has been in the attempt. For, it appears 
to me that the Enemy make only such changes in their Cypher, when they 
meet with misfortunes, as makes a difference of Position only to the same 
Alphabet. And therefore, if no Talk of Discovery is made by us here 
or by your Family, you may be in Chance to draw Benifit this Campaign 
from my last Night's Watching.^ 

P. S. Sep'r 22d. With greater Pain than in the Cases of Balfour's and 
Craigs Epistles, I have also succeeded to find the Key of the Papers which 
are without date, subscription or intermixture of letters, said to be " inter- 
cepted with others dated 7th of March 1781 ". I do not suppose it now in 
use; however I send it. J L 

321. The President of Congress to the Governor of Georgia.* 

Sir, 

I have the honor to inclose to your Excellency the copy of an Act of 
Congress of the 20th instant, voting a monument for the late Brigadier 
General Scriven. 

2 Washington replied Oct. 6 : " My Secretary has taken a Copy of the Cyphers, 
and by help of one of the Alphabets has been able to decipher one paragraph of a Letter 
lately intercepted going from L'd Cornwallis to Sir H'y Qinton" (Washington Papers, 
draft). See no. 318, ante, nos. 320, 349, 350, post. 

[320]! William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers (endorsed, "From Mr. Lovell 
Septr. 2ist 1781. Important intercepted Letters decyphered "). 

2 See no. 319, ante. The letters in cipher to which Lovell refers were transmitted 
by Greene with his letter of Aug. 25, read in Congress Sept. 17. They are in Papers Cent. 
Cong., no. 51, vol. I., ff. 703 et seq. They include a letter from J. H. Craig to Cornwallis, 
dated at Wilmington, July 23, 1781 (f. 705) ; Balfour to Cornwallis [March, 1781 ?] (flf. 
7'^7-7Z'2', translation at f. 713) ; Balfour to Lieutenant-Colonel Stewart, dated at Charles 
Town, Aug. 12, 1781 (f. 733). At f. 759 (error for f. 739) is what Lovell has labelled 
" the true Explanation" of Craig's letter of July 23, 1781, as also of Cornwallis to Balfour, 
Oct. 7, 1780, and Cornwallis to Major "Wimiss", the same date. These last two letters 
are at ff. 527 and 529, respectively. Numerous other intercepted letters are ibid., ff. 530-700; 
cj. nos. 349. 350, post. 

[321 ]i Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Declaration of Independence, II.; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 85 (" For His Excellency Governor Bourke "). The 
letter to Governor Thomas Burke of North Carolina, with the variation, " Davidson " in 
place of " Scriven ", together with a note of the variation in the Georgia letter, is among 
the Burke Papers in the custody of the N. C. Hist. Comm. On Sept. 12 Governor Burke 
had been captured by Tories in a raid on Hillsborough. The capture was announced to 
Governor Nelson of Virginia by John Penn in a letter of Sept. 14 (Haverford College, 
Roberts Coll., 732). 



September, 1781 225 

Tho' it may not be proper to execute the work 'till the enemy are out 
of the State, yet, as acts of this sort are pleasing to the relations of the 
deceased, and prompt others to virtuous and magnanimous deeds, Con- 
gress thought it politic to pass the Resolve at this time. 

Philadelphia September 24th 1781. 

The Honorable Nathan Brownson, Esq.^ 



322. The President of Congress to the Director of the Hospitals 

(John Cochran).^ 

Philada. Septr. 25th, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inclose you an Act of Congress of the 20th instant ; 
by which you will observe, besides some regulations respecting promotions 
in general in the medical department, that Doctors Young, Wilson, Jenifer, 
Edmonson and Campbell are advanced to the rank of Hospital Physicians 
and Surgeons. These promotions are agreeable to your recommendation, 
and, tho' Congress complied with it in this instance, I must inform you 
that they did it with reluctance, conceiving that the department is already 
furnished with a sufficient number of Officers of the different ranks.* 

Several other resolutions are inclosed for the Gentlemen in your de- 
partment which I take the liberty of transmitting to your care, and beg 
you will forward them as speedily as possible. 



323. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 25th 1781. 
S'r, 

Yesterdays post arrived without any letter from Your Excell'y to us. 
We cannot help observing to Your Excell'y that the Operations of the 
fleet and army are of so important a nature at this Crisis of affairs in 
Europe that an hourly communication, if it was practicable, would cer- 
tainly be Eligible; and we therefore lament that no Authentic Intelligence 
has come from them to Congress for ten days past, altho we are informd 

2 On Sept. 27 credentials signed by Governor Brownson, certifying to the election, 
Aug. 17, of Edward Telfair, Noble Wimberly Jones, William Few, and Samuel Stirk, 
were presented. The latter did not at any time attend Congress. A letter from him to 
Noble Wimberly Jones, Aug. 29, congratulating him on his appointment, is in possession 
of the Georgia Historical Society. Stirk further says in this letter : " I could wish that 
you would make it convenient to attend Congress for some time to come, if you should 

then want to be relieved I will attend whenever required As we have had no letters 

of a public nature from the late Delegates, I cannot say what they have done." See no. 
342, note 2, post. 

[322]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 86; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, n. 18 (draft). 

2 See particularly the report of the board of war, dated Sept. 17, in the Journals, 
Sept. 20; cj. ibid.. Sept. 21, 22, and nos. 163, 199, ante. 

[323]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 488. 



226 Continental Congress 

from every Quarter that there has been an Action of Some Consequence 
at Sea.'' .... 

Jos: Jones. 

Read and approved by James Madison and signd at his request 

Theo'k Bland 

324. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Sept 25th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

The application of our state for specie to bring forward the beef cattle 
was referd by Congress to the superintendant of finance, and on my appli- 
cation to him he told me he would write to you his determination on the 
subject. Every argument in my power was used to inforce the measure. 
I suppose the result will be for the quarter master to receive the Cattle 
from you within the state. Hard mony is hard to part with. However 
if they take the Cattle at the borders of the state, that will answer your 
purpose.^ I hope the state will allow me to return home as soon as Ver- 
mont affair is over ; as I am sure my affairs must suffer exceedingly for 
want of me. As to matters of Finance I am of opinion that a silver tax 
must be made. We have borrowed largely this year but we must not think 
of repeating it. 

325. Thomas McKean to George Washington.^ 

Private. 
Sir, 

.... Congress had, in the last winter, acceded to the terms of the 
armed Neutrality planned by the Empress of Russia, and appointed the 
honorable Francis Dana as their Minister to Petersburgh. Before he set 
out he waited upon the Count De Vergennes at Paris, and, by his advice, 
will not appear at the Russian Court in a public Character, without a 
previous certainty that he will be received as such, which is not expected 
in the present stage of affairs, it behoving Mediators to be quite impartial 
between the powers at variance: However the way has been prepared, 
in such a manner as to ensure a friendly reception of him as a private 
Gentleman, and for the rest he must trust to the Chapter of Accidents. 
The Empress was not a little pleased with the Act of Congress agreeing 
to her maritime code ; especially as they had not been invited to it, but did 
it voluntarily. 

2 One omitted passage refers to the mysterious embarkation at New* York, and the 
return of the British fleet, " much disabled as we are told " ; another, to the "' mysterious 
aspect " of afifairs in Europe, which at all events point to the need of " repairing the 
deranged state of our finances and recruiting our armies to their full Complement ", of 
calling forth "all our resources to ensure a good and speedy peace". See no. 318, ante, 
no. 329, post. 

[324]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 52. 
^ See no. 315, ante. 

(325]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, 
II. 19 (draft) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LXVII. 62. 



September, 1781 227 

We are plainly told, that we cannot have any more forces from France, 
by Sea or Land, after this campaign, nor are we to rely on any farther 
pecuniary assistance : The situation of affairs in Europe will demand 
their utmost exertions there, and they expect to render as much real 
service to the common cause in other places, as they could possibly do in 
America. France, notwithstanding, will continue to pay the interest of 
our Loan-Office Certificates; and the King has made a free gift of six 
millions of Livres Tourney, to the United States of the money already 
supplied them. You may rely on the authenticity of what I have com- 
municated.^ .... 

We wait with a degree of anxiety for certain intelligence from the 
Southward, having had none for upwards of a fortnight. 

This moment I was honored with your letter of the 1 5th instant, which 
shall be read in Congress to Morrow.' 

Philadelphia, Sept. 26th 1781. 



326. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 26th Septmr. 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

In our former letters we gave your Excellency room to expect that 
we should obtain — at least we promised to urge for — the establishment 
of our western boundary under the guarantee of the United States. Con- 
gress have remained so thin that a single Dissentient would have frustrated 
any proposition which we might have offered : we, therefore, concluded 
to wait for a more favorable opportunity. To hazard, under the present 
circumstances, a point which so essentially concerns the prosperity and 
tranquility of our State would have been a proof of our Zeal but not of 
our prudence : and we hope we shall stand justified for the delay in the 
opinion of your Excellency and the Legislature. The equity of our terri- 
torial rights can be sp fully established that we persuade ourselves that 
a full Congress will conceive the Limits which we propose to establish 
to be moderate and the Cession to the United States liberal. As the time 
fixed for our return approaches we shall depute the Evidences of our 
Jurisdictions in a safe hand with directions to deliver them to our suc- 
cessors in the Delegation 

2 See the report of the conference with the minister of France, in the Journals, 
Sept. 21. In the first omitted passage McKean relates his most recent information con- 
cerning the peace negotiations ; in the second he discusses the means of making " the most 
of the present opportunity ". 

3 Washington's letter of Sept. 15, written from Williamsburg, is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), IX. 359, (ed. Sparks), VIII. 158. See no. 328, note 2, post. 

[326]^ Clinton Papers, VII. 359 (signed by Duane and L'Hommedieu). 



228 Continental Congress 

327. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Sepr. 26, 1781. 

I send you the Journals of Congress by Capt. Johnston as compleat as 
they can at present be procured : there being none left for the year 1775, 
and none as yet printed for the present year. This delay of printing has 
been owing to the same cause that, has delayed the publishing the Votes 
and Laws of our Legislature 

The small Representation for sometime past, of seven states, has occa- 
sioned a considerable delay in Business of Consequence as nothing could 
be done without unanimous consent. Had we left Congress the loth of 
September, all business for sometime would have ceased : which Circum- 
stance may apologize for our staying longer with those who think the 
resolutions by which we were appointed admit of a doubtful Construc- 
tion as to the Expiration of the Time of our Delegation. 

Tis probable our Finances will not admit of our remaining longer in 
this Place, than two weeks from this time; on my return I shall continue 
with the Assembly which I hear is to meet the first of next month. I have 
been happy in finding that the Publications against Mr. Duane have made 
no Impression on the minds of the Members of Congress, to his Disad- 
vantage, and I am confident that it will be much for the Interest of the 
State to continue him in the Delegation.* 

328. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(the Chevalier de la Luzerne).^ 

Philada. Septem'r 28th, 178 1. 
Sir, 

I had the honor to receive your Excellency's favor of today in Congress, 
and immediately communicated to them the contents. In answer, I am 
to express their satisfaction at this fresh proof of your friendship, and 
to assure you, that the part your Court and yourself have constantly taken 
in the real interests of Congress and the States they represent, justly 
intitle both to every return that a virtuous and grateful people can make.' 

[327] 1 Clinton Papers. VII. 360. 

2 Publications attacking Duane's patriotism appeared in Freeman's Journal (Phila- 
delphia) at intervals from May 9 to Aug. 22. The first was an anonymous criticism of 
" Sinon ", " a practising lawyer in one of the provinces of North- America ". In the issue 
of May 23 " Plain Truth " says that " Sinon " is generally understood to be Duane, and 
elaborates to the extent of two and a half columns on Duane's history and conduct. In the 
issue of May 30 " Candor " briefly defends Duane ; June 6 " Plain Truth " renews the 
attack, and again in the issue of June 27 ; while in the latter issue " Old Plain Truth " de- 
fends Duane. In the issues of Aug. i and 8 appears the defense of Duane, first printed in 
the New York Packet (published at Fish Kill by Samuel Loudon). This defense includes 
testimonials presented to the New York legislature by McDougall, Floyd, Schuyler, 
Wisner, Clinton, Scott, and others. (Originals of these testimonials are in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, vol. V.) After the appearance of this defense " Plain Truth " ad- 
dressed two brief letters to Duane, which appeared in the issues of Freeman's Journal, 
Aug. 8 and 22. See the article on Duane in Diet. Am. Biog. 

[328]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 90; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, II. 22 (draft). 

2 A memorial from the minister, dated Sept. 28, was read in Congress Sept. 29. 
A letter from Daniel Carroll to Governor Lee Sept. 28 states that the French minister 



October, 1781 229 

329. Elias Boudinot to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston')/ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 29th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

We are much alarmed here on the apprehended invasion of this state 
by Gen. Clinton from New York. Indeed this city could not have been 
attempted in a more defenseless state, or at a time which would so essen* 
tially have affected the common cause. 

Congress have ordered down to this town 500 Continental troops under 
Genl. St. Clair from Lancaster. 3000 men of the militia of this State 
are ordered to be in the field without delay, and half of the militia of the 
Delaware state. Congress have great, and indeed I may say the greatest 
dependence on the militia of our state, and hope they will be found 
actually in the field should the enemy appear ever so suddenly. As some 
days are always taken to arrange any body of Militia, the sooner they 
are called out the better. I confess for my own part, I consider this city 
as our most vulnerable part.* 

Another letter received this evening from Maryland confirms the junc- 
tion of Mons. de Barras, and his taking 44 gun ships and two frigates 
with as many transports. No other news. 



330. John Mathews to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia Octr. i, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Although I am well convinced your time must be occupied by very 
important objects; Yet I presume you will not regret the few moments 
employed in the perusal of the following interesting advices lately received 
through the most authentic channel 

I beg your Excellencys pardon for having taken up so much of your 
time, but the subject was interesting; which has led me into a prolixity, 
I did not intend at my first setting out. 

I should not have trusted so much to paper as I have done, were it 
not for the favourable opportunity that offers by Dr. Oliphant, whom I 
beg leave to recommend to your Exc'ys notice.' 

May the supreme Being protect your valuable life through the dangers 
you are about to encounter, and may his Guardian Angel attend to crown 
you with Laurel. 

had been informed by Comte de Grasse of an engagement with the British fleet, and gives 
some account of the outcome. Carroll also mentions the receipt of Washington's letter 
of Sept. 15, in which the latter indicates that he is apprehensive of a want of provisions 
(N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9765). See no. 325, ante, no. 331, post. 

[339]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks Coll., no. 49, vol. IIL, p. 243; Boudinot, Life of 
Elias Boudinot, I. 226. 

2 See nos. 318, 323, ante, no. 335, post. 
[330] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Dr. David Olyphant. See the report of the board of war, in the Journals, Sept. 30, 



230 Continental Congress 

331. James Mitchell Varnum to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia 2d Octr. 1781. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency is well acquainted with the natural and political Situ- 
ation of the Island of Bermuda. For many Reasons I have tho't a Con- 
quest of that Island necessary. Its Inhabitants are generally friendly to 
the united States, and are loudly dependent on them for Subsistence. It 
was intended to be annexed to them when the Treaty of Alliance was 
formed with France : Should it be ultimately annexed, will form an ex- 
cellent Barrier against naval Operations in a future War: But should 
the British strenuously insist upon retaining some Possessions, in a general 
Pacification, in Consequence of their holding Posts, such as New York, 
etc. it may be necessary to silence their Claim by Composition : In that 
Case the Island might be ceded. Our Commerce is greatly annoyed by 
the Privateers which rendesvous there ; A Conquest might relieve us from 
that Inconvenience and Convert it into a Place of Arms for our own 
Vessells. As we have politically debarred the Inhabitants from all Corre- 
spondence or Commerce, their Necessities will oblige them to cruise for 
our Provision Vessells: Their Island is every way calculated to annoy 
us in that Respect. I have made myself fully acquainted with the Strength. 
Defences, and Resources of the Place : I am confident that five hundred 
Men, aided by three or four Frigates, would be fully sufficient to take the 
Island; and that Number would be sufficient to garrison it, could they 
have six Weeks to fortify themselves, previous to an Attempt to dislodge 
them. They should have six Months Provision, Artillery, Amunition, and 
some spare Arms, as two Battalions might be raised from the white and 
black Inhabitants. To give them a Time for fortifying the Place, the 
Expedition should not begin 'till after the Fleets have gone to the West 
Indies. It is not probable any serious Attack could then be made upon 
them 'till next Fall. I have not mentioned this matter to Congress : It 
should be on the Point of Execution previous to such an Intimation, if 
possible. I am very anxious to know your Excellency's Opinion upon the 
Subject previous to any Arrangements respecting it. If you should incline 
to the Measure, whether it will be best to detach a Continental Battalion, 
or raise other Troops for the Purpose ? Whether it will be best to furnish 
the Stores etc. from the public, or by individual Adventurers? And if 
French Frigates can be employed in the Co-operation? The Gentleman 
who bears this is perfectly acquainted with the Island.- By the best 

[331]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The question of attempting the conquest of Bermuda was brought before Congress 
in August, 1782. See no. 579, post. Concerning the question of trade with Bermuda see 
nos. 234, 248, 266. ajitc. The bearer of this letter was Judge Aedanus Burke of South 
Carolina. From Baltimore, on his way to headquarters at Yorktown, he wrote to Arthur 
Middleton, Oct. 9: "1 have often recollected wth Satisfaction what you mentioned to me 
a few Evenings before I left you ; ' that you intended to have the Memorial relative to 
the Bermudians reconsidered '. Should you succeed, you wd do an extensive Act of 
humanity : and if you should not meet wth Success, still I think you will feel a pleasure, 
that altho' you could not releive the miseries of an unfortunate set of people, you however 
pity them" (S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag.. XXVI. 185). The memorial to which Burke 
refers was probably that of Thomas Savage, presented Aug. 31. See further the Journals, 
Sept. 12, 14, 24, 27, 28. 



October, 1781 231 

Intelligence we have been able to obtain, the British lost two seventy fours, 
the Vengeance and Terrible, in Consequence of the late Ingagement with 
Count de Grasse, Had the Princess, a seventy, totally disabled, and four 
other Line of Battle Ships, very much injured.^ Sir Henry Clinton has 
made some Demonstrations towards an Attack in New Jersey or Pennsyl- 
vania ; Militia Camps have been formed : Such Precautions are at least 
excusable ; perhaps necessary. 

We have attempted to elect a Secretary at War. Genls. Greene, Lincoln 
and Knox are in Nomination; all the Votes for one or other of those 
Gentlemen. We effected nothing. Tis said Genl. Greene cannot be taken 
from the Army, considering the southern Situation. I wish your Excel- 
lency would say who can be appointed with the greatest Propriety.* 

P. S. Judge Burke of South Carolina will deliver this Letter. 

JasV. 

^2t^. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

r, f,. Philadelphia Octo. 2nd 1781. 

Dear Sir, ' 

I am informed that a com'tee of our house and councill have proceeded 
to Connecticut river to treat with the people concerning their attachm't 
to Vermont, or something to that effect. I did not hear the names of the 
Com'tee. However I hope the measure will be attended with good conse- 
quences. That com'tee will doubtless be returned before this reaches 
you, I should be glad to be immediately informed of the result of their 
proceedings ; as it may relate to the subject before Congress and strongly 
influence their resolutions. 'Tis probable the com'tee of Vermont will 
be here before the last of Octo. for a final decision of their affair." I am 
very anxious to get this matter settled and to return home. I shall presume 
the state will not be against my returning when this business is finished. 
1 long to see the county of Grafton active and our whole internal policy 
settled. 

333. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry. ^ 

^. Oct. 2d, 1781. 

Your favor of Sep. nth reached me only yesterday. I thought I had 
let you know the ill Success of Mr. Broughtons Petition. I now send an 
Extract from our Journal. 

3 A letter from John Hanson to Governor Lee, Oct. 2, gives an account of the 
naval engagement, refers to Washington's recent conference with de Grasse, and remarks 
that Cornwallis's fate now seems inevitable (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1000). 
A letter of the same date from Elias Boudinot to James Caldwell of Princeton likewise 
speaks of Washington's conference with de Grasse, and relates recent information concern- 
ing events in the south {ibid.. Misc.). See nos. 325, 328, ante. 

* See no. 265, ante. The attempt here referred to, to elect a secretary at war, was 
on Oct. I. It was not until Oct. 30 that the election was successful, when Gen. Benjamin 
Lincoln was chosen. See no. Z72, post. 

[332]! Hist. Magazine, XXIIL 176; N. H. State Papers, X. 412. 

2 See nos. 303, 304, ante, 405-407, post. See also Vt. Recs., IL 320-323. 
[333]^ Furnished by courtesy of Professor S. E. Morison, of Harvard University. 



232 Continental Congress 

Many Persons stand charged on our Treasury Books with Monies ad- 
vanced to them by our Ministers abroad, their Receipts having been trans- 
mitted. The Day of Repayment I believe is distant and I know not whether 
this Gentleman's is one of the Number so transmitted.^ 

It gives much Pleasure to find that " your " was a Misprint.' 
I wish you as good Health as I now enjoy. " our " Friend is unwell 
and yet retains much of the usual Curiosity about your intended Journey 
this Way — " do you think he really will come " ? 

334. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Octr. 2d 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the 24th ulto. came safe by yesterdays post.^ .... 

We have received some communications from Europe relative to the 
general state of its affairs. They all center in three important points; 
the first is the obstinacy of G. B., the second the fidelity of our Ally, 
and the third the absolute necessity of vigorous and systematic prepara- 
tions for war on our part in order to ensure a speedy as well as favorable 
peace.^ The wisdom of the Legislature of Virginia will I flatter myself, 
not only prevent an illusion from the present brilliant prospects, but take 
advantage of the military ardor and sanguine hopes of the people to 
recruit their line for the war 

335. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell.^ 

Philada. Octo'r 2d 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Our friend Boudinot just moved to disband the Militia of 
Pennsylv'a and Delaware in case the Executive of those States think the 
measure Adviseable, but this Motion was rejected. I am unable to judge 
the real Occasion of this motion, the reason he offered was to save expense, 
but it may rather be Supposed as intended to keep the Enemy from com- 
ing this way with intentions to frighten or Catch the Militia as you know 
they would disdain to go where there were no forces to Oppose them 
and where there was no Army to capture.'^ 

We are now represented by three members — Mr. Elmer came yesterday, 
but we are all perplexed to know how to live upon our paper pay which 
is exchanged here at 2% for one with the loss of all the Interest by which 
we get less than one dollar for 20. 

P. S 



2 Concerning the memorial of Nicholas Broughton see the Journals, July i8, Aug. 8. 

8 See no. 242, ante. 
[334]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 154. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Sept. 24 has not been found. The passage omitted here 
chiefly relates intelligence from New York. 

8 The reference is doubtless to the communications from the minister of France, 
reported to Congress Sept. 21. See also the Journals, Sept. 24. A number of letters from 
representatives abroad were read in Congress Oct. 3. 

[335]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 37 (addressed, "The 
Honorable James Caldwell Esqr. Prince Town"). 

2 This motion is not recorded in the Journals. Cf. no. 329, ante. 



October, lySi 233 

336. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell/ 

Philada. Octr. 3d, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... As to your late discovery of the Spirit of Confederation, I can 
scarcely say any thing about, without incurring censure as being Interested : 
I must therefore remind you that it is well known Attendance in Con- 
gress hath long been a painful service to me, and I feel a strong desire 
to be free from it. My self therefore out of the question, I cannot but 
reflect upon our situation should you act as you propose unless I am 
mistaken in some facts; If I am rightly informed Dr. Witherspoon Mr. 
Houston Dr. Elmer and myself have served three years, and that Dr. 
Scudder Mr. Boudinot, Dr. Henderson and Col. Freelinghuysen will 
decline if Chosen, if this is the Case shall we have New Members that 
know any thing of the Business of Congress, while Many if not all of 
the other states whose Constitutions Admit of it send some of their 
old members without regard to the time they have served, judging that 
the Confederation cannot and ought not to have any operation before its 
final ratification; indeed it never was made a Rule to govern Congress 
before that period. The Limitation is in general useful but then it ought 
to be a rule equally regarded by all or none, or those who do not confine 
themselves by it will have a manifold advantage over the others who are 
not prepared to act agreable to the Spirit of it. The present situation 
of our publick affairs requires the Assistance of such as have a thorough 
knowledge in the business before Congress. The only proper System for 
the Choice of members in my opinion, is to Elect only three Members 
annually two of which acquainted with the business, one of the old ones 
to go out at every Choice to make room for a new one. by this Measure 
there will alway be two that had served before. The three chosen should 
be such as agree to Attend except prevented by sickness, the Choice of 
five members will only incapaci[t]ate a greater Nimiber after three years 
service without giving better Attendance 

2)2,7- Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 3, 1781. 
My Dear Sir, 

This has been an important day for News both foreign and domestic. 
What I can inform you of, is that a Member from North Carolina 
arrived here last Night and informs that he see a Dr. Brown who was 
on furlough from the Army, and to whom an Express came from Genl. 
Green urging his speedy return, informing that he had had a general 
Action, in which he lost upwards of 300 killed and wounded." .... on 
the whole the Enemy were totally routed, with the loss of upwards of 
700 killed and taken 

[336]iHaverford College, Roberts Coll. 

[337] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 85. 

2 The delegate from North Carolina was Benjamin Hawkins. The doctor was 
probably James Brown. Some details of the battle, as well as of the sea-fight mentioned 
further on, have been omitted. Letters from Boudinot to Pintard Oct. 9, 16, and 24 
{ibid., II. 86-88) continue the news from the war front. 

19 



234 Continental Congress 

We have also official Information of a Battle having been fought 
between 9 Dutch Ships and 12 English Ships under Admiral Parker in 
the North Sea — The Battle severe, and the English completely routed. 

No likely hood of Peace — the Battle was the 12 Augt. 

338. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 3, 1781. 
Sir, 

. ..." I mentioned to the Superintendant of Finance this morning the 
affair of supplies for the ensuing season, and the necessity of giving 
timely notice to the States what provisions are expected from them; he 
says he shall have a conference with the Board of War upon that subject 
to-morrow. I send this by Mr. Webster who is just ready to set out. 

339. The President of Congress to the States of 
Pennsylvania and Virginia.^ 

Sir, 

As Brigadier General Irwine purposes to set out to morrow in order 
to take the command at Fort Pitt, and may very probably have occasion 
for the Aid of the Militia in the vicinity of that Post, I thought it proper 
to procure a copy of his Instructions and to transmit them to you ; they 
are accordingly inclosed, and I rest assured every suitable measure will 
be adopted for affording him effectual support by the Militia in case of 
necessity.'' 

Philadelphia, October 8th 1781. 

340. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philadelphia October 9, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... The decided measures, which Holland has taken against Great- 
Britain, drew from Mr. Adams the inclosed memorial. There does not 
seem, however, any ground to believe, that his success will be immediate." 

[338] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, III. 281. 

2 Sherman gives a summary account of the battle of Eutaw Springs, differing in a 
few particulars from that given by Boudinot (no. 337, ante). In his letter to Trumbull 
Oct. 16 (no. 356, post) Sherman gives a more particular account of the battle. 

[339]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
p. 93 ("For His Exceiry President Reed"; at foot, '' N. B. The like verbatim to his 
Excy Governor Neilson"). 

2 The instructions to Gen. William Irvine are in the Journals, Sept. 24. 
[340] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Randolph) ; Cal. Va. 
State Papers. II. 533. 

2 See no. 274 (note 3), ante, no. 341, post. Madison sent a copy of the memorial 
to Pendleton Oct. 9, remarking, " I wish I could have informed you of its being lodged 
in the archives of their High Mightinesses instead of presenting it to you in print ". Writ- 
ings, I. 156. 



October, 1781 236 

It is impossible to expect, that France, engaged as she is in expence, 
should maintain the American war out of her own treasury. Her ad- 
vances for America have been generous, but not sufficient to overcome 
the necessity of the exertions of the different states. Every state has 
the same plea with Virginia of being a creditor of the united states. 
Our hope therefore is, that, whilst Virginia labours to furnish new supn 
plies, she will not forget the importance of forwarding to us as accurate 
an account, as possible, of her disbursements for the union. 

The report of a committee of congress, appointed to consider the cessions 
of western territory, made by Virginia, New- York and Connecticut, has 
been brought into discussion at our instance. It declared in general terms 
the inadmissibility of those cessions upon the conditions specified, fixed 
a day for ascertaining the boundaries, beyond which congress would 
not guarantee, and concluded with a recommendation to lay out separate 
states in the ceded lands. After some debate it was recommitted. The 
advocates. for recommitment acted upon different motives ; some intending 
thereby to open a door for a full and minute question of the territorial 
rights of those three states; whilst others, among whom we were, pro- 
posed that the subject should be handled merely upon the basis of several 
resolutions of congress, passed with the express view of stifling all in- 
quiries of right. We have attended the committee for a great part of 
the three last days, which have been occupied by New York in the de- 
velopment of her title. Her delegates will probably finish their pretensions 
to day. Connecticut will be concise. We shall deliver to the committee 
written reasons for declining to enter into discussions of right. Your 
excellency need not apprehend, that we shall weaken our title by the 
discovery of any ill-founded distrusts, or expose our candor to suspicion. 
We forewarned the delegates of New York and Connecticut of our 
scruples as to our authority to submit to an investigation of the right, 
and the committee were reminded, that their present procedure violated 
the assurances of congress, contained in the resolutions abovementioned. 
By the next post we shall transmit a farther history of this transaction 
together with a copy of our reasons.' 

341. Edmund Randolph to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 9, 1781. 
Dear sir, 

I was much distressed on the receipt of your late favor by Mrs. Ran- 
dolph, to find your irrevocable purpose of sequestering yourself from 
public life. If you can justify this resolution to yourself, I am confident, 
that you cannot to the world. There remains now no alternative, but 
either to consign southern interests wholly, to the management of our 
present ministers, or to interdict them from the exercise of all discretion- 
ary power." .... 

3 See vol. v., no. 629, and nos. 10, 11, 24, ante; also the Journals, Oct. 2, 16, 26, 
Nov. 3, 14, and nos. 353, 360, 361, 368, 378, 379, 381, 384, 408, 429, post. 
[341]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 Randolph is replying to Jefferson's letter of Sept. 16 {Writings, III. 49). Jeffer- 
son had been chosen by Congress, June 14, one of four commissioners to negotiate peace, 
but had declined. See nos. 159, 263, ante. 



236 Continental Congress 

Mr. Adams has been harrassing the pensionary of Holland with over- 
tures of a treaty of commerce.' He seems to have committed the dignity 
of America by his importunities, and being so often repudiated. This he 
has done against the opinion and advice of Count de Vergennes. Our 
country does not rest, I hope, upon the prospect of a loan from Holland, 
or of any new pecuniary aid from France. France has embarrassed herself 
by her advances for America, and forwarned us to rely on ourselves alone 
for fresh supplies of Money. I must intreat you to add one other object 
to your journey to the assembly — enforce the necessity of a state of our 
accounts against the continent being forwarded to us, and of establishing 
sufficient funds to enable congress to carry on the war with effect. 

Capt. Gillon, who took on board of his ship in France about io,ooo£ 
Ster: worth of clothing, and was supposed to be lost, is arrived at Fal- 
mouth in Casco bay.* .... 

342. George Walton to the President of Congres.s.^ 
^. Philadelphia, 10 October, 1781. 

Intending to return to Georgia as soon as I can make some little estab- 
lishment for my family, I request Congress will order me a sum of money 
for that purpose, in like manner as was done for my late colleagues 
Colonel Few and Mr. Howly. 

When provision was lately made for discharging the necessary debts 
of the Delegates of the three Southern States, I owed the sum of fifty-six 
pounds : this I did not draw for, proposing to have paid it by economising 
the monthly allowance: but going soon after out of Office, that debt, 
(which ought to be considered upon a footing with those of the other 
Delegates,) is left upon me undischarged.' 

343. Edmund Randolph to the Virginia State Auditors.^ 

^ ,j Philadelphia Octr. 11, 1781. 

Gentlemen, ' 

Being anxious, that my money transactions with the state may be re- 
viewed by you, as often as possible, I take the liberty of forwarding my 

3 Letters from Adams were read in Congress Oct. 3. See especially those of May 7 
and 16 (two of the latter date), in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 401, 419; cf. no. 340, 
ante. 

* See nos. 272, 274, ante, 344, 481, post. 

[342] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XXIV., f. 339. 

2 The letter was presented to Congress Oct. id, and an order for five hundred 
dollars adopted Oct. 13. The committee's report is recorded on the back of the letter. 

Samuel Stirk, delegate elect, wrote from Augusta, Nov. i, to Gen. John Twiggs : 
" From what I can learn Howly and Walton were much astonished at their not being 
reelected, the former means to return here immediately, but it is not known when the 
latter means to make his appearance. Telfair and Jones have taken their seats in Congress. 
.... I am told our delegates have been very liberal on the score of drawing. I could 
wish for the sake of their injured country that the same could be circulated among the 
people, that the real conduct of our gentry might be properly inquired into, and the people 
in future know how their affairs are conducted" (Ga. Hist. Soc, MSS.). See no. 321, 
note 2, ante. Probably at the time when Walton was taking his departure (the letter is 
without date) Jones wrote to the speaker of the Georgia assembly, congratulating him upon 
Greene's victory, and remarking: " Should anything particular happen in Congress as to 
our state it will by the Delegation be immediately communicated to you." Hist. Soc. of 
Pa., Society Collection. 

[343]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



October, 1781 237 

account of expences, as a delegate to congress, by Colo. Bland. But I 
am obliged to leave a blank in it, as to the travelling expences of my 
family from a total ignorance of the footing on which the delegates stand. 
] f you have any difficulty in the business, I beg you to inform me : as I 
have suppressed many charges rather than to incur a censure of being 
too minute, and should be mortified, were it ever supposed, that I made 
improper debits.^ .... 

I do not know how far I am justified in charging my family's travelling 
expences to this place: and shall therefore make no charge, until I hear 
from you. 

If you require me to be more particular I can be so. But there is such 
a littleness in this business, that I had almost rather lose the whole of 
petty charges 

The above was written in a hurry, to prepare it for conveyance by 
Colo. Bland. Excuse the want of formality. 

344. Thomas McKean to George Washington.^ 

(Private.) 
Sir, 

I had the honor of writing last to your Excellency on the 26th of 
September. Since that time we have had letters from Mr. Adams, at 
Paris, on the 15th of July, and from Amsterdam on the 3d of August; 
They confirm what I wrote you last 

Sir Henry Clinton sent off three boats with despatches for I^rd Corn- 
walHs; one, named the Andre, carrying a brass six-pounder in her bow, 
eight blunderbusses, and twenty men armed with muskets, sailed on the 
26th September last; the second sailed on the 28th and the third on the 
1st instant. We have taken the two last, and by means of a little address 
and a promise of pardon to a Tory, who was intrusted with one sett of 
the despatches, I found it was hid on the beach where he was taken; I 
have procured three Gentlemen of ingenuity and fidelity to proceed to 
little Egg harbour with the fellow in quest of it. The beach is so extensive 
and so many places like each other, that it is not yet found, tho' the man 
is believed to be perfectly sincere in his wishes to recover it. The Gentle- 
men went from this on Sunday, and I expect their return tomorrow. You 
shall know the result as soon as they arrive. In the mean time the boat 
which first sailed should be looked for by the Fleet. I have written to 
the Presidents of Delaware and the Eastern Shore of Maryland to watch 
for her.^ 

We shall be obliged to compleat Colo. Armand's legion, and I despair 
of doing it with Americans, if all the Field-Officers are French Gentlemen. 
There is now a vacancy, by the resignation of the Major and if the 
Colonel would approve of Captain Allen McLean, who is now on half -pay. 
to be his Major, it would save the half pay, oblige a very deserving officer, 

2 The account, together with some comments upon it, is embodied in the letter. 
[344]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters of IVasltington (ed. Sparks), 
III. 421. 

- See nos. 345, 346, 348-351, post. 



238 Continental Congress 

be a means of speedily filling his corps, and greatly tend to the public- 
benefit : I should be happy if you and the Colonel were of this opinion. 

Captain Gilland ^ is said to be arrived in the Frigate Charles-town in 
Casco Bay. He has cloathing, etc. for Congress, to the amount of ten 
thousand pounds sterling and upwards, and I believe a Million and a half 
of livres. It is a fortunate arrival, and I sincerely congratulate you upon 
it, for I now flatter myself your army will be well cloathed and paid in 
future. 

The Express delivered your favor of the i st instant only last night : 
it shall be laid before Congress this morning. 

Philadelphia, October 12th, 1781. 

345. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

Since my private letter of yesterday to Your Excellency respecting the 
designs of Sir Henry Clinton and Admiral Greaves to make a second 
attempt to releive Lord Cornwallis, I have had it strengthened by other 
accounts, and have just now received in Congress the Letter from General 
Heath and it's inclosure of which you have copies. This intelligence is 
of so much consequence, that Congress permit me to spare so much time 
from other duties as to forward these dispatches immediately. I have not 
yet learned the result of the expedition to the Sea coast, which I mentioned 
to you in my last. 

The contents of this Letter I have communicated to Count De Grasse 
by this Express, to be forwarded by water from the Head of Elk, but 
beg you will be pleased also to transmit it to him for fear of a miscarriage. - 

Philadelphia, October 13th, 3 o'clock, 1781. 

346. The President of Congress to the Comte de Grasse.^ 

Philada. October 13th, 1781. 
Sir, 

The intelligence your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith is of 
such importance that I transmit it forthwith by water as well as by land. 
It is the same that I communicated by Express yesterday to his Excellency 
General Washington, and which he will immediately forward to you, with 
the addition, that the British Admiral purposes to take ten Fire-ships 
with him. I firmly believe a second attempt will be made to relieve Lord 
Cornwallis, and as firmly that your Excellency, if you receive this infor- 
mation in time, will disappoint him.'"^ 

Wishing you the greatest glory and happiness, I beg leave to subscribe 
myself, with the most profound respect and regard, Sir, 

3 Capt. Alexander Gillon. See no. 341, ante, no. 481, post. 
[345]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 344, ante, nos. 346, 348-351, post. Heath's letter, read Oct. 13, is dated 
at " Continental Village" (near Peekskill), Oct. 7. It is printed in Arch, of Md., XLVIL 

522. 

[346]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 96. 
2 See no. 345, ante. 



October, 1781 239 

347. William Churchill Houston to the President of Congress.' 

Philada. 13 Octr. 1781. 

Sir, 

I proposed to have attended in my Place this Morning, and saved Your 
Excellency the Trouble of this Letter, but am called away sooner than I 
expected by Company with whom I am under an Engagement to return 
to New- Jersey. Am therefore to request Your Excellency will be pleased 
again to express my Acknowledgments to Congress for the Honour they 
had intended me in the Election to the Office of Comptroller of Accounts, 
and to beg they will excuse me from undertaking it.' 

I regret my having detained them so long from another Election, and 
hope they will attribute it to an earnest Desire to have obeyed their Com- 
mands, if, from the most careful Enquiry and Reflection, I could have 
thought myself capable of answering their Expectations. 

348. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

October 13, 1781. 
The Contents of the inclosd appear of such consequence, that two ex- 
presses are immediately to be sent of, one to proceed by land, the other 
by water from the Head of Elk — we have likewise thought it proper to 
forward copy, to you, not doubting but that you will think the intelligence 
of sufficient consequence to require a fast sailing boat to be dispatch'd 
with it to the Count de Grass, least the letters sent by the President shou'd 
meet with some delay.' 

349, Thomas McKean to George Washington.^ 

(Private) 
Sir, 

My two last letters must, I know from your opinion of my character, 
have spread the wings of your expectation. My intelligence was true: 
the inclosed copies of two original letters from Sir Henry Clinton to 
Lord Cornwallis, which I have in cyphers, and which have been faithfully 
decyphered by Mr. Lovell (whose key I had the honor to forward to you 
about a fortnight ago) more than prove the fact." 

I347]' Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XII., f. 187. 

2 This letter was read in Congress the same day. Houston's election to the office 
of comptroller was on Sept. 24. He does not appear to have attended Congress since some 
time in July, when he became seriously ill ; but he was re-elected to Congress Nov. 2 and 
took his seat Nov. 28. 

[348]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 91 ; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 522. 

2 The enclosure was Heath's letter of Oct. 7, which is printed ibid., p. 522. See 
no- 345. ante. 

[349P Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See nos. 318-320, ante. In his letter to Wasliington Sept. 21 McKean does not 
mention transmitting the key to the cipher. In this letter of Oct. 14 he may have had 
in mind the transmission of it by Lovell. Elias Boudinot gives the following account of the 
acquisition of these despatches : 

" Before the Capture and at the first preparation for the Siege before Count De Grasse 
arrived, Genl Clinton sent a row Boat well manned with a Confidential Officer along the 



240 Continental Congress 

I shall make no comment on the letters of Sir Henry, lest I should wade 
beyond my depth, but I rest assured you will excuse what I think it a 
duty to add. From comparing all my secret informations together, I 
firmly believe the British Admiral has now twenty nine ships of the line, 
and a very respectable number of Frigates: which, with ten fire-Ships, 
have probably sailed yesterday for the Chesapeake, having on board 
between five and six thousand Land forces. As to the three additional 
ships, they are supposed to have come from the west Indies, and are said 
to have arrived the beginning of last week. Sir Henry expected to be 
ready to sail on the 5th instant, I am greatly deceived if he sailed before 
Friday, for I have had faithful Friends to myself, as well as to the cause, 
who left the Sea-coast yesterday, some distance, 'tis true, from the Hook 
to the Southward, who know nothing of it; and if he had sailed before 
Friday, I believe they would have known it. These are the Gentlemen 
who brought me Sir Henry's dispatches. Among the letters (all being 
carefully inclosed in lead) I have found some, that will enable me to 
prevent some men of Sussex County in the State I have the honor to 
represent, from doing us much mischief, and perhaps they may enable 
me to make further discoveries : they have little relation to your immedi- 
ate concerns, and therefore I shall not trouble you with the contents, 
except that intelligence is intended to be conveyed to and from Lord 
Cornwallis by way of the Tanjier Islands in the Chesapeake near the 
Eastern shore. I never heard of them before, and not having time to 
satisfy myself where they lie, must refer it to your enquiry. 

It is far from my thoughts to intermeddle in the operations of the 
campaign, but I know you will pardon me for suggesting to Major 
General Heath, that after Sir Henry Clinton sails, it is my opinion there 
will not be above Four thousand land forces left in New-York and it's 
environs, of whom there cannot be above a thousand Regulars, and that 
therefore it may be adviseable for him to be in readiness to attack it, 
if he should be so directed by you. Should you. Sir, think this practicable, 
or adviseable, there will, in less than a fortnight after I shall have informa- 
tion of it, be five thousand militia to co-operate with him. 

The use that may be made of the three large smoaks, if you shall have 
succeeded against Lord Cornwallis, will readily suggest itself, to you, and 
if not, the knowledge of it may prove advantageous. 

Philadelphia, October 14th 1781, 8 oClock. P. M. 

Coast to get into York Town with a Letter to Lord Cornwallis, setting forth his situation 
and the impossibility of his relieving him with a fleet till a certain day and encouraging 
him to hold out till that period. The Boat was driven on Shore some where near Eg,^ 
Harbour, and the Crew taken and brought to Philadelphia. One of the Men discovered 
in private, where they were bound and that the Confidential Letter had been hidden under 
a certain large Stone on the Shore by the Officer. A Person was sent to the Place and 
brought it to Congress. It was in Cypher and after some trouble it was discovered to be 
in three different Cyphers. However it was decyphered by a Mr. Lovel a member of 
Congress from Boston, after about two days labour. The original Letter was carefully 
returned to the Stone, or some means used so that it finally got to Lord Cornwallis, but 
not before Count De Grasse's arrival, and having the Copy fairly translated. By this means 
he was enabled to counteract all their intended Maneuvers." John Carter Brown Library, 
Journal of Elias Boudinot ; Elias Boudinot, Journal or Historical Recollections of Ameri- 
can Events during the Revolutionary War (ed. Frederick Bourquin), p. 38; Boudinot, 
Liie of Boudinot, I. 235. 



October, 1781 241 

350. James Lovell to George Washington/ 

Evening 14 Octr. 1781. 

I gave a Letter for your Excellency this morning to some Gentleman 
who is connected with the French army, I now understand it will not 
reach you in Eight Days, but it will reach you doubtless then. It was 
merely to compleat the Account of the Cyphers used by the Enemy. I 
found, as I had before supposed, that they sometimes use Entick's Diction- 
ary marking the Page Column and Word as 11 5. 1.4 Tis the Edition of 
1777 London by Charles Dilley. 

Since I wrote that Letter, I have been happy in decyphering what the 
President of Congress sends by this Opportunity. The use of the same 
Cypher by all the British Commanders is now pretty fairly concluded.^ 
The Enemy play a grand Stake, May the Glory redound to the Allied 
Force under your Excellencys Command! 

351. Thomas McKean to William Heath. ^ 

Private. 
Sir, 

The intelligence you have from time to time communicated to Congress 
has been very satisfactory, and always corroborated what I had derived 
thro' other channels. I am now to inform you of some facts of the utmost 
importance: however you may be at a loss to account for numbers or 
circumstances, believe me, they are founded on the best evidence, and 
perfectly true in all respects.'' 

Sir Henry Clinton is ready to sail in person with upwards of five 
thousatid chosen troops, Rank and File, on board the British fleet, now 
consisting of twenty nine Line of Battle ships, besides frigates and ten 
fire-ships 

In this situation of affairs would it not be adviseable to think seriously 
of an attack on New- York? You may obtain five thousand militia in a 
few day's to co-operate with you. I rest assured you will be in readiness 
to execute any Orders you may receive from the Commander in chief 
on this head. General Washington and Count De Grasse will in a very 
few days be informed of all these particulars, as I have dispatched Ex- 
presses to each by the nearest routs. 

Philad'ia Oct. 15th 1 78 1. 

352. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Rodney.* 

D'r Sir, 

.... Indeed Sir had I thoughts of going to Congress I should be 
detained on the same Reason with your self — this Matter I shall lay before 

1350]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 349, ante. Concerning the use of Entick's Dictionary by the Lees and 
others for purposes of a cipher see vol. IIL, p. 231 n. 
[351]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, IL 41 (draft). 

2 See nos. 345, 348, ante. 
l352]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



242 Continental Congress 

the House as soon as they Meet, and unless they immediately provide 
for the Case this State must continue unrepresented in Congress. I am 
determined no longer to serve on my own Expences. I have done it for 
two Years, considering the Distresses of the State etc. but now they may 
do better and must, if they mean to be represented in that House. Unless 
they make a proper Provision and point out a convenient and certain Mode 
of Supply I shall never more appear in Congress, this is my fixed 
Determination. 

15 Octo'r 1781. 

353. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 16, 1781. 
Sir, 

Your excellency's favor of the 5th instant " gives us great reason to 
flatter ourselves up>on the present prospect in Virginia. Intelligence from 
New- York announces a fixed purpose in Sir Henry Clinton to force his 
way into the Chesapeake, with a fleet of 26 certainly, and probably of 
29, ships of the line and ten fireships. But we trust, that the bravery and 
ability, which have hitherto distinguished the French nation, and were 
so eminently displayed in the late rencontre of the duke de Lauzun, will 
destroy the illusive opinion of Great Britain, that she reigns the sovereign 
of the sea. 

We learn from the same source of information, that about 40 transports 
have arrived at New- York under convoy of a ship of 44 guns and two 
frigates. 

In our letter of the last week,' we promised a copy of our protest against 
the proceedings of a committee of congress with respect to our western 
territory. Since that time we received notice to attend on Saturday last 
at a conference between the committee and the agent for the Illinois, 
Ouabashe, and Indiana companies. We requested the committee to post- 
pone the conference, until the extent of their powers should be ascertained 
by a note of congress: but we found, that applications had been made 
for postponing by the agent. This business was adjourned to Thursday, 
and will then be entered upon, unless we can arrest it by a motion this 
morning. It is our wish therefore to defer any farther communication 
on this head, until the fate of the intended motion shall be known. 

Altho' we have refused to submit the territorial rights of Virginia to 
this committee, we cannot forbear to recommend, from an experience of 
the calumnies, to which her title is daily exposed, that a representation 
of her claims should be prepared, and authentic documents collected, at 
the instance of government. The time may come, when the exercise of 
jurisdiction in congress will not be so objectionable, and so much opposed 

[353]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (signed by Jones, Madison, and 
Randolph). 

2 Official Letters, III. 78. 

3 No. 340, ante. See nos. 353, 360, 361, 368, post. 



October, 1781 243 

to the confederation, as the conduct of the committee now is. Should the 
cessions of Virginia and New-York be rejected, a contest may possibly 
arise between them, on the subject of the ceded territory. Impressed by 
the importance of these considerations, and the danger of injury to public 
records in a season of war, New- York has compiled every pai)er, which 
bears the most distant reference to her claims. Ought not Virginia to be 
equally watc[h]ful? She would derive much advantage, were a copy 
of her title-papers transmitted to her delegates in congress. At present 
tho' we are conscious of the justice of her demands, and may probably 
from memory run thro the grounds of them, we shall not consider our- 
selves fully armed, until we are furnished in the most authentic, formal 
and official manner. 

We shall endeavour to secure to Virginia her proportion of clothing, 
agreeably to your excellency's recommendation. 

354. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Oct. 1 6th 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

When you get a sight of the Resolution of the Gen: Ass: referred 
to in your favor of the 8th you will readily judge from the tenor of it 
what steps would be taken by the Delegates.^ It necessarily submitted 
the fate of the object in question to the discretion and prospects of the 
Gentleman whom reports it seems have arraigned to you, but who I am 
bound in justice to testify has entirely sup[p]orted the character which 
he formerly held with you.^ I am somewhat surprised that you never 
had before known of the Resolution just mentioned especially as, what 
is indeed more surprising it was both debated and passed with open doors 
and a full gallery. This circumstance alone must have defeated any 
reservations attached to it. 

The N. York papers and the intelligence from thence make it evident 
that they have no hope of relieving Cornwallis unless it can be effected 
by some desperate naval experiment and that such an one will be made. 

355. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.* 

Philada. Octo'r i6th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

We have not yet reed, any official Account of Genl. Greens Battle on 
the 8th Sept. — from private Letters only all our intelligenses come. No 

[35AV Writings, I. 157. 

^ The reference is to the alteration of Virginia's instructions relative to the naviga- 
tion of the Mississippi and the consequent alteration (Feb. 15, 1781) of the instructions of 
Congress to Jay. For an elucidation of the matter by Madison in 1822 see vol. V., no. 661, 
note 5. 

3 Pendleton had heard it said that the whole manoeuvre was " one of the fruits of 
the cabal against Virginia, and by their contrivance the requisition was made by your 
minister to Spain. I always had a good opinion of that gentleman, and wish for the sake 
of his character as well as other reasons, it mayn't be true ; but if it is, his being recalled 
and sus. per. coll. [suspendatur per colluvi — let him be hanged by the neck] would be a 
small recompence to the public for such conduct ". The letter, dated Oct. 8, is in Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., XIX. 141. 

[355] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Sprague Coll., H. 183. 



244 Continental Congress 

one here doubts a victory on our side, but I am strongly inclined to 
believe it was dearly purchased. We are in hourly expectation of the 
particulars.^ As to the operations with you, we are perfect Strangers 
to them. We hear you are near the Enemy but know nothing of your 
prospects.^ .... 

I expect to leave this Town next month free from every public charge 
as my Delegation will then expire, and my long continuance will excuse, 
if not exclude me from' the next Choice 

356. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. i6th, 1781. 
Sir, 

. . . .^ Some accounts have been lately received from Europe by the 
Minister of France and communicated to Congress, which will be officially 
communicated to the several States in a short time. I wish that no hints 
of this kind be published from my letter.^ 

The estimates for supplies are nearly compleated and will be trans- 
mitted as soon as possible.* Connecticut is not yet represented in Congress. 
Enclosed is this day's paper, but it does not contain much news. 

357. Thomas McKean to George Washington.^ 

Private. 
Sir J 

Your Excellency's letter of the 6th instant came to hand on the i6th 
and was read in Congress. I have very little intelligence besides what is 

• Elias Botidinot wrote to Lewis Pintard Oct. 16, " This Instant as I am writing 
in Congress an express from Genl. Greene" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 87). 
A letter of the same date to his brother, Elisha Boudinot, summarizes Greene's despatches 
and adds that a letter had arrived in Philadelphia which stated that Cornwallis had sent 
out terms of capitulation, but that they had been refused (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., 
Misc.). Letters from General Greene, Sept. i, 3, 5, and 11, were read in Congress Oct. 16. 
That of Sept. 11, which was transmitted by General Washington, gave an account of the 
battle of Eutaw Springs, Sept. 8. The account is summarized by Sherman in his letter of 
Oct. 16 (no. 356, post), and also in a letter from the Rhode Island delegates the same 
day (Staples, R. J. in Cont. Cong., p. 352). See also Greene to Washington Sept. 17 
(Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks. III. 406). Cf. no. 337. ante. 

3 A letter from Aedanus Burke to Arthur Middleton, dated at " Camp before 
York", Oct. 16, with continuations to the 19th (5". C Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVI. 
186), gives an account of the siege and surrender. A letter of Nov. 18, written from 
Petersburg (ibid., p. 188), contains some further remarks upon the surrender, among 
them the following : " Towards the conclusion of the Siege of Y. Officers and men were 
impressed wth a notion that every man wd. be put to the bayonet. No wonder they were 
so ready to surrender." 

[356]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 289. 

^ An account of the battle of Eutaw Springs, Sept. 8, is here omitted. See no. 355, 
ante. 

3 The reference is probably to the communications reported to Congress Sept. 21. 

* See no. 313, ante, no. 376, post ; also the Journals, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, 12 : cf. Morris 
to Congress Oct. 18 (Wharton, R^v. Dipl. Corr., IV. 785), and his circular letter to the 
states Oct. 19 (ibid., p. 790; Clinton Papers, VII. 421). 

[357]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, 
II. 47 (draft). 



October, 1781 245 

contained in General Heath's letter of the 9th, a copy of which you have 
inclosed herewith, and the letter from Colo: Silvanus Seely. which is 
now forwarded, together with one for Colo : Ogden." 

The British Fleet had not sailed on Monday, and it is believed they will 
not be fully ready until Sunday next. 

As Chief Justice of this State I shall be under a necessity of attending 
the Supreme Court next week ; besides my health requires a ride into the 
country, and my mind some relaxation : I shall therefore resign the chair 
of Congress. If you should after the receipt of this honor me with any 
private communications, I must request you would not direct to the 
President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia, October i8th 1781. 



358. Thomas McKean to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

[October 18, 1781.] ' 
Sir, 

Inclosed you will receive a letter from congress to his most Xtian 
majesty. As it contains a general answer to his dispatches by Lt. Colo. 
Laurens, and informs him, that we have charged our minister plenipo- 
tentiary at Versailles to render more particular acknowledgements for his 
zeal for the reestablishment of peace upon principles coinciding with the 
liberty and sovereignty of the united state [s] and for the important 
succours, lately administered to our necessities, we must call your atten- 
tion to this subject. 

We cannot transmit, at present, any intelligence concerning our arrange- 
ments. Immediately on their completion you shall be furnished with a 
copy of them. 

2 Heath's letter of Oct. 9 was read in Congress Oct. 17. Lieut.-Col. Silvanus Seely 
was reporting to Washington, from Connecticut Farms, the movements of the British 
fleet. There are letters from him Oct. 14 and 18; the former is probably the one for- 
warded by McKean. 

3 McKean's letter of resignation, addressed to Secretary Thomson, is in the Jour- 
nals, Oct. 23. The resignation was accepted, but on the following day he was requested 
to continue to act as President until the first Monday in Noveml^r, when a new session 
of Congress, as provided in the Articles of Confederation, would begin. His successor, 
John Hanson of Maryland, was elected Nov. 5. See no. 375, note 2, post. 

[358]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, II. 62 (endorsed, "Draft of a letter to 
Dr. Franklin, October — 1781 ") ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 103 
(the letter only). 

2 In the McKean Papers (though not in the letter-book copy) this letter is pre- 
ceded by an introductory paragraph as follows : " The Committee, appointed to confer 
with the Minister of France, report the following draught of a letter to his most Xtian 
majesty and the following resolution." The resolution reported by the committee follows 
this letter. The letter to the King of France is in the Jonrtvais, Oct. 18, and in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 784. 

Oct. 20 Robert R. Livingston assumed the office of secretary for foreign affairs and at 
once wrote Franklin (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 795). See also his letter to Greene 
Oct. 20, to Dana Oct. 22, to Adams Oct. 23, and to Luzerne Oct. 24 {ibid., pp. 797, 802, 
806, 809). It is possible that McKean's letter to Franklin was not despatched. 



246 Continental Congress 

The resolution is in these words. 

It appearing that the communications to the several ministers of these 
United states will be frequent and various, according as circumstances 
may direct, and the situation of the American finances require : 

Resolved, that the superintendant of the finances be authorize^l to make 
such communications from time to time so far as relates to his department." 

359. Elias Boudinot to the Governor of New Jersey 
(WiixiAM Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 20th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I am authorized to give your Excellency official intelligence that the 
enemy, in order to carry on their correspondence through our state make 
use of a number of pedlars, who are supplied with proper certificates or 
licences according to law, which I suppose they forge for this purpose. 

We have had no official information from headquarters since the 6th. 
The private intelligence is all contained in the newspapers of this day.^ 

360. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Philadelphia October 23, 1781. 
Sir, 

The committee, to whom was referred the cession of Virginia, have 
been industrious in the Audience of counsel, and investigation of the 
claims of the several great land-companies. We refused to attend their 
summons, and our reasons will be transmitted to your excellency, as 
soon as a full state of this proceeding can be prepared. In the mean time, 
altho' we cannot but view with a suspicious eye the conduct, hitherto 
observed by Congress towards our country on the subject of western 
territory, we wish, that every public act, having this conduct for its 
object, may be postponed, until a particular account of this matter shall 
be received from us. We should not have intruded this observation upon 
your excellency, had we not reason from some private dispatches to 
believe, that our country is highly inflamed against Congress on this 
ground.^ Perhaps our success in the capture of Cornwallis, upon which 
we cordially rejoice with your excellency, may dictate, from motives of 

8 The committee's resolution does not appear with the letter in the Journals, Oct. i8, 
neither is it appended to the letter in the Letter-Book; but a resolution of similar pur- 
port, on motion of Edmund Randolph, was adopted Oct. 23. 

[359]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks Coll., no. 49, vol. IIL, p. 244; Boudinot. Life of 
Boudinot, p. 227. 

2 This letter was written on Saturday. On Sunday Boudinot wrote to his wife, 
giving an account of the attack upon Yorktown, as communicated in Washington's letter 
of Oct. 12. The next morning, Oct. 22, he added this postscript : 

" Monday Morning — 8 oClock. At three oQock this Morning an Express arrived with 
the glorious News of the Surrender of Lord Cornwallis with his whole Army. God be 
praised. It was on Wednesday last. I congratulate you and all our Friends." N. Y. Pub. 
Lib., Emmet Coll., Misc. 

[360]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, IV. 76 (signed by Jones, Madison, and 
Randolph). 

2 See nos. 340, 353, ante, 361, 368, post. 



October, 1781 247 

prudence, the suppression of every wrathful measure, until an opportunity 
more fit." 

We shall endeavour to forward by the next mail a cypher, for the 
communication of secret intelligence without danger of detection.* 

361. Edmund Randolph to Theodorick Bland.^ 
Dear sir Philadelphia, October 23d, 1781. 

Since your departure not a syllable of foreign intelligence has occurred. 
Nor indeed have we heard any thing domestic, except the surrender of 
Cornwallis — an event on which I most sincerely rejoice with you. I shall 
send your papers, as many of them at least as I can collect in the course 
of each week, by every post. A committee of our body are engaged in 
the memorials of the different land companies. They seem inclined to 
strike Virginia. We have endeavored to warn them of this improper 
exercise of jurisdiction. I wish that their proceeding may not oblige 
our country to awake to something wrathful.^ 

Mrs. Randolph and myself beg our compliments to Mrs. Bland. 

362. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot.^ 
My dear Brother, Philadelphia Octr. 23d 1781. 

I take the first opportunity that offers of Congratulating you on the 
glorious Success of the allied Arms, in the Capture of Lord Cornwallis 
and his whole Army on the 17th Inst, a Day famous in the annals of 
american History. Our official Accounts are not yet come to Hand, but 
a Letter from Compte de Grass announces this happ>' Event — would to 
God, that a deep Sense of Gratitude may follow this remarkable Smile of 
Heaven at this critical Era. 

The Extent of this great Victory, cannot be judged of, but by those 
who are in the Cabinet. It must exceed the most exaggerated Idea you can 
form of it. Compte de Grass is gone out to meet the English fleet, 
possessed of the Knowledge of every Circumstance relative to it.' 

Kind Love to Sister — Kiss the Heiress for me. 

363. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 
My dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 23d 1781. 

Your favour came safe to hand by the Post, and just before arrived 
the glorious News of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis to Genl. Wash- 

8 A letter from Governor Nelson to the delegates Oct. 20, announcing the sur- 
render of Cornwallis, is in Official Letters, III. 88. 
* See no. 442, post. 
[Z^iY Bland Papers (ed. Campbell). II. 78. 

2 See no. 360, ante, no. 364, post. 
[362]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., V. 11. 

2 The letter of the Comte de Grasse, dated Oct. 18, was read in Congress Oct. 22. 
See nos. 363, 365, post. In his so-called "Journal" (see no. 349, note 2, ante) Boudinot 
devotes considerable space to recounting the events that led to the campaign of Yorktown. 
For a discussion of this subject, based primarily on the papers of Sir Henry Clinton, 
recently made available, see "A View of Cornwallis's Surrender at Yorktown ", by 
Randolph G. Adams, in Am. Hist. Rev., XXXVII. 25 (October, 1931). 
[363P Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 89. 



248 Continental Congress 

ington on the 17th, a day which will ever hereafter be famous in the 
Annals of anierican History for two of the most remarkable Events of 
this important revolution, vis. the Capture of Burgoyne the pretended 
Conqueror of the North and Cornwallis the flourishing Conqueror of the 
South. Our official Letters are not yet arrived and are not expected till 
tomorrow Evening. The News is announced in a Letter from Compte De 
Grass, who is gone out to meet the English fleet. I sent this Intelligence 
to you yesterday as soon as it arrived ma Princeton, In hopes it would 
arrive before the Post, that you might not loose a Moment in being 
partaker of my Joy. I am obliged to you for your News ; but the Combined 
fleet was not bound to Gibraltar but after convoying the French troops 
to Minorca, are actually now stretched from [blank'] to Ireland in order 
to destroy the whole Trade of Great Britain especially by taking the 
Jamaica fleet and also preventing succor being sent to Minorca. We have 
had the most particular and exact acct. of every Movement of the Enemy 
at New York and Know the particulars of all their Designs. I hope to 
see you soon. I wish you would bring me 5 or 10 Guineas as I shall be 
in want. If Count De Grass should slip into New York instead of meeting 
the English fleet, it would be a glorious Maneuvre. 

364. Abraham Clark to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly 

(JOSIAH HoRNBLOWEr).^ 

Philada., Octr. 23d, 1781. 
Sirs, 

The Instructions of the Legislature respecting the Western Lands and 
Indiana Claims, etc., have been reed, and attended to. The Cession of 
Virginia and the Indiana Claim, etc., are before a committee who have 
not yet reported. The few states at present represented in Congress will 
render any proceeding in this business difficult if not impracticable: a 
determination cannot be had without a fuller representation.^ .... 

365. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 

Philadelphia Oct. 24, 1781. 
My dear Sir, 

A Confirmation of the glorious News of Cornwallis's surrender you 
will receive by this Day's Paper.^ Therefore shall only give you some 

[364]! N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 328; AT. /. Rev. Corr., 
p. 288. 

2 See nos. 360, 361, ante. Clark mentions that " Dr. Witherspoon .... hath just 
made his appearance ". 

[afiSJ^Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 88. 

2 The Pennsylvania Gazette of Oct. 24 says : " Early on Monday morning an 
Express arrived in town, with the agreeable and very important intelligence of Lord 
Cornwallis and his army having surrendered on the 17th inst. We impatiently wait the 
arrival of his Excellency General Washington's dispatches, particularly this most im- 
portant event." See no. 366, post. The despatches were brought to Congress by Lieut.-Col. 
Tench Tilghman, one of Washington's aides, and Boudinot relates concerning him the 
following circumstance : " When the Messenger brought the News of this Capitulation to 
Congress, it was necessary to furnish him with hard Money for his Expenses. There was 
not a sufficiency in the Treasury to do it, and the Members of Congress, of which I was 



October, 1781 249 

particulars not mentioned there This Success was heightened by 

the true bravery displayed by the Troops of both nations, disarming 
themselves of resentm't and giving Quarters to the abject Brittons on 
their Knees begging for Mercy. 

This Conduct contrasted with English humanity displayed at Groton, 
must stamp their Character (if possible) with a still deeper dye 

one, each paid a dollar to accomplish it" (John Carter Brown Library, MS. Journal: 
Life af Boudinot, I. 235). The episode of Tilghman's journey to Philadelphia with the 
despatches has been celebrated by Clinton Scollard in a ballad, " The Ride of Tench 
Tilghman" (Ballads, Patriotic and Romantic, New York, Laurence J. Gomme, 1916). 
The ballad was reprinted in the general Magazine and Historical Chronicle, October, 1931. 

Tilghman wrote to Washington Oct. 27 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers), 
giving an account of his journey, as also of the proceedings of a committee who inter- 
rogated him concerning the capitulation : 

"A Committee, consisting of Mr. Randolph, Mr. Carrol and Mr. Boudinot, were ap- 
pointed to inquire of me the several matters of a particular kind which were not included 
in your dispatches. They not only went into these, but into the motives which led to the 
several Articles of the Capitulation, and I have the pleasure to inform you, that they 
were perfectly satisfied with the propriety and expediency of every step which was taken— 
and so indeed were the whole Body of Congress, except the So. Carolinians, whose ani- 
mosities carry them to that length, that they think no treatment could have been too 
severe for the Garrison, the officers and Ld. Cornwallis in particular. One of them, whose 
name I will mention when I have the pleasure of meeting your Excellency, made a Motion 
that the officers should be detained untill the further order of Congress. This was unani- 
mously rejected, as an affront upon you — a violation of the Capitulation — a violation of our 
own national honor and that of our Ally, whose Admiral and General were parties. Upon 
the whole, Sir, you may be assured, that the Capitulation is considered, by every unbiassed 
person both in and out of Congress, as highly honorable to the Arms and beneficial to 
the interests of both Nations " 

The report of the committee mentioned by Tilghman is in the Journals, Oct. 29 
(pp. 1082 n. -1083 n.). On the same day Congress directed the board of war to present to 
Lieut. -Col. Tilghman " a horse properly caparisoned, and an elegant sword, in testimony 
of their high opinion of his merit and ability ". Concerning the motion of the South 
Carolina delegates (Middleton and Motte), Oct. 25, Boudinot relates the following: 

" Lord Cornwallis while Commanding in South Carolina had behaved with great 
Cruelty to the Citizens, in the opinion of the delegates from that State, and was specially 
charged with the Murder of Coll. Haines, under pretext of Martial Law. This enraged the 
Gentlemen from the Southward, and particularly a Mr. Middleton, and soon after Lord 
Cornwallis Capture, a Motion was made in Congress, that General Washington should 
cause his Lordship to be executed in retaliation of Coll. Haines and other cruelties com- 
mitted by him. This Motion was strongly advocated by a very large party in the House, 
and the prospect of its success greatly alarmed many moderate Members of Congress. 
Mr. Duane and myself opposed it with all our powers, as contrary to all good faith, having 
entered into a Capitulation with him, after the facts committed and having knowledge of 
them — That it would Expose our Commander in Chief to the necessity of resigning his 
Command or forfeiting his Honor and Reputation etc. etc. etc. The debate continued 
several Days, and with great difficulty we succeeded in putting a negative on it by a 
small Majority." MS. Journal ; Boudinot, Lije of Boudinot, I. 242. 

From "Camp before York" Oct. 19 (continuation of letter of the i6th), Aedanus 
Burke wrote to Arthur Middleton : " One hour ago I was one of the many Spectators 

who saw the British Army march Prisoners of War out of the Garrison of York 

To see these very men who had once reduced us to their power, and treated us w'th 
cruelty and insult, I was prompted by a Love of Revenge natural to the mind of man and 
in my opinion, a very justifiable and useful sentiment in a publick War. But when I 
beheld them reduced from their former power and Consequence to their present miserable 
melancholy plight, I for a moment forgot their insolence, their depredations and cruelty 
to those unfortunate men who had from time to time fallen in their power. They marched 
thro' both Armies in a Slow pace, and to the Sound of Musick, not Military Marches, 
but of certain Airs, w'ch had in them so peculiar a strain of melancholy, and w'ch 
together w'th the appearance before me excited sentiments far different from those I 
expected to enjoy. One must be something more or less than man not to be Serious 
on this occasion." S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVI. 185. See further nos. 402, 449, 
post, and the Journals. Feb. 2^, 1782. 

20 



250 Continental Congress 

366. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 25th, 1781. 
Sir, 

We have the honor now to transmit to your Excellency an official 
account of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis and the army under his 
command. The dispatches from General Washington were received yester- 
day morning,^ and at two o'clock in the afternoon Congress went in a 
body to the Lutheran Church, where divine service (suitable to the 
occasion) was performed by the Reverend Mr. Dnffield, one of the 
Chaplains of Congress. The Supreme Executive Council and Assembly 
of this State, the Minister of France and his Secretary, and a great 
number of the citizens attended. In the evening the city was illuminated.^ 

[366] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., 111. 297 (signed by Sherman and 
Law). 

2 The despatches were read in Congress Oct. 24. Washington's letter, Oct. 19, 
transmitting the correspondence with Lord Cornwallis, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 386, 

(ed. Sparks), VIIL 182. The correspondence, together with the articles of capitulation, 
is ibid., pp. 530-536. See the Journals, Oct. 29 (pp. 1082 n.. 1083 n.). 

The Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 25 announced: "This morning Colonel TILGHMAN, 
Aid-de-Camp to His Excellency, Our illustrious Commander in Chief, arrived in town, 
with the following DISPATCHES to the President of Congress." The word "This" 
has been erased (doubtless by the recipient of the paper) and a marginal note inserted: 
" say yesterday morning ". The despatches were printed in the issues of Oct. 25 and 27. 
They were also printed in the Pennsylvania Journal of Oct. 27, and in the Pennsylvania 
Gazette of Oct. 31. 

3 The Pennsylvania Packet of Nov. i has the following account of the celebration : 
" On Wednesday morning the 24th ult. official accounts came to this city, of the sur- 
render of Lord Cornwallis and his whole army on the 19th preceding. At 11 o'clock, the 
vice-president of the state and the members of the council waited upon his excellency the 
president of Congress, the members of that august body, and [his] excellency the minister 
of France who congratulated each other on this great, important and happy event. The 
standard of the state was hoisted, and at 12 o'clock, a salute was fired from the artillery 
in the statehouse yard, as also from the shipping in the harbour with colours displayed. 
In the afternoon the honourable the congress, the minister of France, the council, the 
chief officers of the state and a considerable number of great and respectable characters, 
both in the civil and military line, attended divine service, (which was performed by the 
reverend Mr. Duffield, one of the chaplains to Congress,) to express their gratitude, and 
return their thanks to the great disposer of all events, for the smiles of his providence, 
in granting such a glorious and signal success to the army of these United States and their 
allies. At 6 o'clock the whole city was illuminated, and people of all ranks seemed to con- 
tend who should distinguish themselves most, in demonstrating their joy in this important 
event. By reason of the unfavourable weather, the exhibition of the fire-works, which 
were new and excellent in their kind, were postponed till the succeeding evening. 

" Mr. Alexander Quesnay de Glovay being desirous, upon the evening of the late illumi- 
nation of this city, to participate with the inhabitants in their testimonies of joy on that 
memorable occasion, exhibited, at his lodging in Second-street, between Chestnut and 
Walnut-streets, a beautiful spectacle, viz — On the right window were seen thirteen stars, 
representing the thirteen United States, each of which diverged a ray of virtue towards 
the name of his excellency general. Washington, which encircled a quiver. The names of 
the thirteen virtues are: i. Wisdom, 2. justice, 3. Strength, 4. Temperance, 5. Faith, 
6. Charity, 7. Hope, 8. Courage, 9. Religion, 10. Love, 11. Policy, 12. Friendship, and 
13. Constancy. Over this were three flowers de luce, which environed the count de Grasse's 
name, with the motto, HUZZA! diverging three rays of joy towards the said thirteen 
states. 

" On the left window was drawn, the picture of the illustrious American commander, 
with his lance in his hand, trampling under foot the crown of Britain, with this motto, 
BRITTISH PRIDE. Over this were three flowers de luce, standing about the coimt 
de Rochambeau's name, with the motto HUZZA ! which also diverged three rays of joy 



October, 1781 361 

This great event we hope will prove a happy presage of a compleat re- 
duction of the British forces in these States, and prepare the way for the 
establishment of an honorable peace. We mentioned in our last that 
Mr. McKean had resigned the chair. He was by a unanimous vote yester- 
day morning requested to resume it and act as President until the first 
Monday in Novr. next, which he has accepted.* 

367. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).* 

Philadelphia Octo. 30th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been confind with the gout but am better so as to get out to 
Congress. 

I have nothing material to write but what is containd in the paper. 
I shall be under necessity to trouble you with another draft pretty soon, 
if I can find a purchaser.^ 

My wish is to get home, from this intolerable expensive place, if once 
Vermont business was done. 

368. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.* 

Philada., Oct. 30th 1 78 1. 
Dear Sir, 

I return you my fervent congratulations on the glorious success of the 
combined arms at York and Glocester. We have had from the Commander- 
in-Chief an official report of the fact with a copy of the capitulation, 
and a general intimation that the no. of prisoners, excluding seamen, 
etc., would exceed five thousand; but no detail of our gains. If these 
severe doses of ill fortune do not cool the phrenzy and relax the pride 
of Britain, it would seem as if Heaven had in reality abandoned her to 

towards the aforementioned illustrious hero. The whole was formed by different colours, 
in the nicest and most expressive manner, and attracted not only the notice, but the 
universal admiration of the numerous spectators. 

" The succeeding evening Mr. PEALE had his house most beautifully illuminated. At 
the lower window was represented a large ship, under sail, with the word " CORN- 
WALLIS " on her stern, and the flag of France erected over that of the British, emble- 
matical, first, of the assistance of the fleet of our great Ally; second, the taking a fine 
ship is justly compared to the glorious conquest of Cornwallis; and third, her fast sailing, 
to his rash and precipitate movements in some of the southern states. 

"At the middle window, in the second story, the Portraits of our illustrious CHIEF 
and the Count ROCHAMBEAU, with rays of glory from them; over their heads, two 
Laurel Crowns, interlaced; and the whole incircled with palms and laurel branches — 
With this motto, 

" • SHINE VALLIANT CHIEFS.' 

And on the third story, in large letters, the words, 

"'FOR OUR ALLIES, HUZZA! HUZZA! HUZZA!' 

The whole in transparent Painting." 

* See nos. 357, ante, 375, note 2, post. 
[367]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 67. 

2 See no. 393, post. 
[368]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 158. 



252 Continental Congress 

her folly and her fate With what hope or with what view can 

they try the fortune of another campaign ? Unless they can draw succour 
from the compassion or jealousy of other powers of which it does not 
yet appear that they have any well-founded expectation, it seems scarcely 
possible for them much longer to shut their ears against the voice of 

peace 

You are not mistaken in your apprehensions for our Western Interests. 
An agrarian law is as much coveted by the little members of the Union, 
as ever it was by the indigent Citizens of Rome. The conditions annexed 
by Virginia to her territorial cession has furnished a committee of Con- 
gress a handle for taking up questions of right both with respect to the 
Ceding States, and the great land companies, which they have not before 
ventured to touch. We have made every opposition and remonstrance to 
the Conduct of the Committee which the forms of proceedings will admit. 
When a report is made we shall renew our efforts upon more eligible 
ground, but with little hope of arresting any aggression upon Virginia 
which depends solely on the inclination of Congress. Since the close of 
the Confederation however, it has been understood that seven votes are 
necessary to carry every question. This rule in proportion to the thinness 
of Congress opposes a difficulty to those who attack. It will therefore 
I believe be impossible for the Eneniys of Virginia to obtain any positive 
injury to her rights. My [greajtest anxiety at present is lest the attempts 
for that purpose may exasperate the Assembly into measures which will 
furnish new hopes to the British Court to persevere in the war, and new 
baits for the credulity of the British nation. The good sense of the 
Assembly will however I flatter myself temper every express [ion] of their 
displeasure with due respect to thi[s conjsideration. It would be particu- 
larly unhappy if any symptoms of disunion among ourselves should blast 
the golden prospects which the events of the campaign have opened to 
us." .... 

369. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

It affords me ineffable pleasure to present to your Excellency the Thanks 
of the United States in Congress assembled, for the distinguished services 
you have rendered to your Country, and particularly for the conquest of 
Lord Cornwallis and the British Garrisons of York and Gloucester, and 
the wisdom and prudence manifested in the Capitulation. 

You have herewith inclosed a copy of the Act of Congress passed on 
this occasion upon the 29th instant, which fully expresses the sentiments 
with which they are impressed by this glorious event. 

Words fail me when I attempt to bestow my small tribute of thanks 
and praise to a Character so eminent for wisdom, courage and patriotism, 
and one who appears to be no less the Favorite of Heaven than of his 
country; I shall only therefore beg you to be assured, that you are held 

2 See nos. 360, 361, ante, 378, 379, 381, 384, post. 
[369] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 105. 



October, 1781 253 

in the most grateful remembrance; and with a peculiar veneration, by all 
the wise and good in these United States. 

That you may long possess this happiness; that you may be enabled 
speedily to annihilate the British power in America, which you have so 
effectually broken by this last capital blow; that you may be ever hailed 
The Deliverer of your Country, and enjoy every blessing Heaven can 
bestow, is the sincere and ardent Prayer of one, who professes himself 
to be, with every sentiment of regard and all possible attachment, 

Philadelphia, October 31st, 1781. 

P. S. A proclamation recommending a day of thanksgiving and prayer 
is enclosed for your information. 

370. The President of Congress to the Comte de Rochambeau.* 

Philada. October 31st, 1781. 
Sir, 

In obeying the Orders of Congress contained in their Act of the 29th 
instant, a copy of which Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith, 
I feel a pleasure more easily to be conceived than expressed. 

When I reflect on the many obligations my Country is under to his 
Most Christian Majesty I am deeply impressed with the warmest sensa- 
tions of gratitude, but more particularly so when I see a gallant Army 
sent a thousand leagues to our immediate Assistance, under the command 
of an experienced and great General, who with a cordiality, zeal, judgment 
and fortitude becoming himself, has so successfully seconded and ad- 
vanced the progress of the Allied Army in the reduction of the British 
Garrison at York under Lieutenant General Earl Cornwallis, and com- 
pelling the whole to surrender Prisoners of War. 

You, Sir, are that General, and to you I am happy in presenting, which 
I hereby do. The Tluinks of the United States of America in Congress 
assembled for the eminent services you have rendered on this important 
occasion. 

371. The President of Congress to the Comte de Grasse.^ 

Philada. October 31st, 1781. 
Sir, 

The Thanks of the United States in Congress assembled is the highest 
honor that any of their citizens can receive for the most distinguished 
services. I feel myself peculiarly happy in being the instrument of con- 
veying these Thanks to your Excellency in Obedience to their Act of the 
29th instant, a copy of which I have the honor to inclose herewith. Be 
pleased therefore to accept, what in the name of the United States of 
America in Congress assembled I most cheerfully give you. Their Thanks 
for the display of your skill and bravery in attacking and defeating the 

[370]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 107. 
[371]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 109. 



254 Continental Congress 

British Fleet off the Bay of Chesapeak, and for your zeal and alacrity 
in rendering with the Fleet under your command the most effectual and 
distinguished aid and support to the operations of the allied Army in 
Virginia. 

I will only add, Sir, that your name will be ever dear to the good people 
of these States as long as gratitude is a virtue. Your wisdom, your 
attachment to the essential interests of this country, your effectual com- 
pletion of the wishes of your Sovereign, and your whole conduct justly 
endear you to us, and intitle you to every mark of honor that we can 
possibly confer upon you. May you long retain the smiles and approba- 
tion of your Prince, and of all good men, and enjoy all the happiness this 
world can afford. 

372. The President of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Sir, 

Inclosed you will receive the copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th 
instant, by which you will observe that you are honored with a new mark 
of their confidence. You will likewise receive the copy of an Act of the 
7th February last, respecting the Powers and duty of the Secretary at 
war. They are, you will readily conceive, great and important. But the 
reflection is pleasing that the abilities of the person elected are equal to 
the arduous Task. The copy of an Act of the ist instant is also inclosed 
for your information. Give me leave to congratulate you on this occasion, 
and to request your speedy determination and answer,^ 

Philadelphia, October 31st 1781. 

373. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary at War 
(Benjamin Lincoln).^ 

<^. [November i (?), 1781.] 

I have it in charge to furnish you with the enclosed resolution directing 
two Standards to be presented to the commander in chief, and to inform 
you that it is the pleasure of Congress that you carry the same into 
Execution. 

I cannot forbear congratulating you on the pleasure you must enjoy 
in executing so agreeable a commission and am confident you will do 
it in such manner as will convey to the world as well as to his excellency 
the commander in chief that dignity and value which it is the wish of 
Congress should be considered as annexed to this present.^ 

[372]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. in. 

- Robert R. Livingston wrote to James Duane Nov. 2 : "After Long struggles 
Congress have at last appointed a Secretary at war. You would not I believe have suspected 
it to be Genl. Lincoln, who with all his virtues as a man and an officer, I fear from the 
little knowledge I have of him, will want sufficient activity of Genious for so embarrassing 
a Department. I may however be mistaken in my conjectures" (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane 
Papers, V. 383). Lincoln gave in his acceptance Nov. 26. 

[373]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 567 (draft, endorsed, "Letter 
from the Secy, of Congress to the Secy, at War Novr. 1781 "). 

2 The resolution was adopted Oct. 29 (Journals, p. 1081). The standards were 
transmitted to Washington by the secretary at war Dec. 28 (Washington Papers), and 
acknowledged by Washington Dec. 30 (ibid.). 



November, lySi 255 

374. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene/ 

Philada. November 2d, 1781. 
Sir, 

I had the honor to receive your dispatches of the ist, 2d, 3d, 5th and 
nth September by Captain Pierce, and to lay them before Congress on 
the 1 8th last, being the day on which they came to hand. 

You will receive inclosed herewith the copy of an Act of Congress 
of the 29th last month respecting the Battle at the Eutaw Springs in 
South Carolina, and also a Proclamation recommending the thirteenth 
day of December next to be observed as a day of Thanksgiving and 
Prayer throughout the United States. 

In obedience to the former I am happy in having another opportunity 
of testifying the high sense that Congress entertain of the services you 
have rendered your Country, particularly in the well fought Battle of 
the eighth day of September last. 

I am to present to you. Sir, and do hereby most cheerfully present you 
The Thanks of the United States of America in Congress assembled, for 
your wise, decisive and magnanimous conduct in the action of the eighth 
of September last, near the Eutaw springs in South Carolina, in which 
with a force inferior in number to that of the Enemy you obtained a 
most signal victory. 

Accept also my congratulations on the conquest of the Garrisons of 
York and Gloucester under the command of Lieutenant General Earl 
Cornwallis, who on the 19th of October last surrendered Prisoners of 
War to his Excellency the Commander in Chief of the Allied Army. 



375. Elias Boudinot to John Stevens.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 5 1781. 
Sir. 

I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of the Certified Minute 
of the Joint Meeting, testifying the appointment of Delegates for our 
State in Congress the Ensuing Year. I am much Embarrassed on this 
Occasion. I was preparing to return home, having had no Idea of re- 
maining here longer than this day, being the Terms on which I first 
accepted the Appointment. Indeed had this not been the Case, the ex- 
hausted State of my Finances and the Derangement of my Family Affairs 
would Oblige me to return. The Monstrous Expence attending a residence 
in this City, must soon take away the ready Cash of any Fortune among 
us. However as there were only Mr. Clark and myself here, and our 
Presence absolutely necessary to Form a Congress in this important Con- 
juncture, We took our Seats this Day and have proceeded to the Choice 

[374]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p, 112; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, IL 64 (draft). 

[375] '^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, IL 90 (draft) ; Boudinot, Lije of Boudinot, 
\. 228, with the address, " To Vice Presidt. John Stevens Esqr." 



266 Continental Congress 

of a President, Mr. Hanson of Maryland * I shall continue here this 
week in hopes that your honorable Houses will urge the attendance of 
one of the other Gentn. by that Time. I shall do myself the honor of 
calling on you next week, as I have some matters of great Importance 
I would willingly communicate to the Legislature before my return Home. 
Never was there Time which required a full Representation of the 
States more than the present as Matters of the Utmost future Consequence 
to this rising Empire, are and must be the Subject of constant discussion. 

Not being able to command the Acts of Assembly, we cannot determine 
if a renewal of the usual Oaths are essentially necessary to our repre- 
sentation — we therefore must beg advice on this Subject. We shall con- 
tinue our Seats until the return of the Post, as our return to Jersey for 
that Purpose at present, would prevent the whole Business of the United 
States at a season too critical to admit of such a delay, as the Estimates 
of the ensuing Campaign are hard and must be immediately Compleated. 

Mr. Clark intended joining me in this Letter but the opportunity cannot 
wait my seeing him. 

376. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).* 

Philadelphia Nov. 6th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

You will receive from the Financier a recommendation to our state, 
to raise its Quota of 8,000,000 dollers, for the service of the insuing year. 
This Quota, being 373,598 dollers, which you will find by calculation is 
nearly a one and twentyeth part of the whole 8,000,000, is as I suppose, 
eighty or ninety thousand dollers more than it ought to be. And this I 
urged to the Committee that made the Quotas, of which committee I 
was one, and also to congress, when it was under debate before them, 
but without success." I now write this to you, and to the honourable court, 
that you may judge, as I Know you can much better than I, first, whether 
the state is overcharged in the manner above supposed ; but secondly and 
principally, that the Court being informed of the case, may maturely 
consider and determine what ought to be done, in respect of complying 
with the requisition, which would establish in some measure, by acquies- 
cence, their quota for the future. I feel on the one hand the importance 
of an immediate complyance with the requisition, knowing the bad con- 
structions that both our friends and enemys, respectively, might put upon 

2 The following note, dated Nov. 5, is found recorded in the President's Letter- 
Book, p. 117: 

" Note, This day the United States in Congress Assembled elected His Excellency 
John Hanson, Esquire, President, the honorable Thomas McKean, late President, having 
resigned on the 23d of October last, but acted by special request until the present time. 
[Signed] Samuel Sterrett, Private Sec." 

On the same day Secretary Thomson sent identical notifications of the election to General 
Washington and to the several states. That addressed to Washington is in the Wash- 
ington Papers ; copies are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f . 563, and no. 58, f . 239 ; printed 
texts are in Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 444, and Arch, of Md.. XLVII. 542. 
(376P N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 72. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, and nos. 313, 319, ante. 



N. H. 


100,000 


N. York 200,000 


Masa. 


350.000 


N. Jersey 130,000 


Rh'd 


60,000 


Pensyl'a 300,000 


Con't 


200,000 


Del'e 30,000 



November, lySi 267 

any thing that looks like an evasion, or removing our shoulder from the 
burthen ; on the other hand, a complyance with a requisition so manifestly 
out of all proportion may tend to destroy that confidence which the City- 
zens of our state at large have and ought to have in the Court. You know, 
that by the confederation, the states should be Quotaed according to the 
amount of the value of their land : but an estimate of this value has never 
been made. The committee therefore took for the basis of their quotas 
the proportion made by a resolution of Congress the 29th of July 1775, 
(which please to turn to) founded on the supposed number of inhabitants 
in the several states, wherein our numbers were unfortunately supposed 
to be 100 000; and our quota of 3,000,000 dollers was 124,0693/2 doll. 

The respective numbers of inhabitants, tho not inserted in the Journal, 
I am informed were as follows, 

Mar'd 250,000 

Virg'a 400,000 

X. Car 'a 200,000 

S. Car'a 200,000 

the whole 2,420,000 

But afterwards a true estimate of our numbers was made, and being 
represented to congress, by our delegates in 1779, to be abt. 76,000, our 
quota was established accordingly, as Mr. \V. Langdond [sic'] and Col 
Peabody can inform. We were quotaed in Octob. 1779, 400,000 to 
15,000,000 dollers, which is about a seven and thirtyeth part.*. I do not 
know how that was calculated. I take our just proportion to be abt. a 
three and thirtyeth part, besides our proportion required to make up the 
deficiencies of those states that are disabled by the ravages of the war. 
If the court should think it best to make a representation of this matter 
to Congress, in order to get the quota set right, before they proceed to 
raise the mony, it will be necessary to prove, as clearly as possible, that 
our number of inhabitants did not exceed 76,000 in 1775; because it has 
been asserted here, that we had 100,000 inhabitants, by a Census taken 
before the revolution. Now the whole of my complaint is, that we are 
taxed for 100,000, instead of being taxed for 76,000. I presume this 
will find the Court sitting, so you will soon come to a determination upon 
the subject. We have nothing from Vermont. Twenty four standard of 
Ld. Comwallis army brot to congress last Saturday, displayd and paraded 
through the city, made a most pleasing appearance. Particulars you will 
have in the paper inclosed. 

P. S. The resolution of congress says this proportion shall not be 
drawn into example in future. All the former resolutions have said to 
the same purpose : nevertheless congress have expressly taken the erroneous 
former guess-work proportion of 1775 for the basis of this. It is further 
held forth that if any state is now over burthened they shall be recom- 

3 See the Journals for 1779, Jan. 2, 4, 5, May 19, 21, 26, Sept. 13, Oct. 2, 6, 7; cf. 
nos. 379, 382, 398, 455, post. 



258 Continental Congress 

pensed hereafter. I fear this word hereafter is to be taken in a theological 
sense. 

Yesterday being the day appointed to elect a president Mr. Hanson of 
Maryland was elected. 



377. Richard Law to Jonathan Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 6, 1781. 
Sir, 

I do myself the Honor to Inclose to your Excellency this Days Paper 
in which you'll see a particular Return of the Prisoners, ordonance, Stores 
etc. delivered up on the Surrender of Cornwallis and his Army. Mr. 
Hanson of Maryland is chosen president for the current year. Congress 
have but a Thin House as yet, Mr. Sherman set off for home Yesterday, 
so that the State of Connecticut is unrepresented, hope some Delagates 
from thence will soon arrive. As there has nothing new turned up since 
Mr. Sherman left this, beg Leave to refer your Excellencey to him for 
what was antecedent. A motion was this day made in Congress upon 
the Petition of Pensilvania to take up the Wioming Controversy and 
Citation will of Course go out to cite in the State of Connecticut to be 
heard thereon.^ 



378. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson)/ 

Philadelphia Novr. 7, 1781. 
Sir, 

For the present week, we have nothing particular to communicate; 
the state of the discussion of the cession of Virginia not yet being pre- 
pared ; ^ We shall therefore postpone any farther observations on this 
head, intending to accompany our next information with an account of 
the quota of money, assigned to Virginia by a late resolution of Con- 
gress." We beg leave to acknowledge your excellency's favor of the 20th 
of October, by the last post.* 

[377]^ Conn. State Lib., Jonathan Trumbull Papers, XV. 235 (copy furnished by the 
courtesy of Mr. J. P. Boyd of the Wyoming Historical and Geological Society, Wilkes- 
Barre, Pa.). 

- The Pennsylvania petition was presented Nov. 3, the form of notice and the date 
for the hearing ("the fourth Monday in June next") was reported by a committee 
Nov. 14, and the notices were sent out by Secretary Thomson Nov. 21. The notice to 
Connecticut is in Conn. State Lib., Susquehanna Lands, L 148, and in the Library of 
Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 573 (draft) ; that to Pennsylvania is in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., IX. 448. 

[378]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IL 587. The letter is 
signed by Madison, Randolph, and Jones. 

2 See no. 379, post. 

3 See nos. 356, 376, ante, 379, 398, 408, 429, post. The promised observations were 
probably in a letter of Nov. 17, mentioned in the letter of Nov. 20 (no. 387, post). 

* Nelson's letter of Oct. 20 is in Official Letters, IIL 88. 



November, 1781 259 

379. Edmund Randolph to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson)/ 

Philadelphia Novr. 7, 1781. 
Dear sir, 

I am happy in acknowledging the receipt of your late friendly letter. 
I need not particularize the date, as you will readily call to mind, that 
it is the only one which you have written to me since my departure from 
Virginia. 

The capitulation of York will create leisure to our country to weigh 
the crisis of her situation. I give her present circumstances the appella- 
tion of a crisis, because upon the measures which she may now adopt 
depends her rank in the political world. A passage in your letter has 
taken up one of the subjects to which I allude : the delegates are almost 
worn down with motions respecting your cession of western territory. 
The disgust and jealousy conceived against Virginia leave us the bare 
consolation of having deserved some degree of success; for in no instance 
have we obtained the smallest. The history of this business is not lengthy. 
The report of the committee to whom the cessions of New York, Virginia 
and Connecticut, and the memorials of the Vandalia, Illinois, Ouabacha 
and Indiana companies were referred was recommitted to five other 
gentlemen. Being informed that New- York and Connecticut proposed to 
unfold all their title-papers, we attended the committee, but informed 
them that we did not hold ourselves bound by the example of the twf) 
other states, nay that we were not free to submit to the inspection and 
decision of even congress itself the charters and other territorial docu- 
ments of Virginia. We grounded our opinion of this limitation of our 
power upon the resolutions of congress which first procured our cession, 
and which, as they openly and explicitly professed to be intended to stifle 
all inquiries into territorial rights, were an actual fraud upon Virginia, 
if her rights of this nature were to be discussed. Nor could we forbear 
reprobating this assumption of jurisdiction as contrary to the confedera- 
tion, because not delegated by it. These remonstrances being made, we 
listened to a voluminous detail of the title of New- York. She principally 
builds her demands on grants from the six nations, and thereby becomes 
a competitor for an important portion of the chartered soil of Virginia. 
Connecticut, in her turn, was short, resting herself on the Pl)anouth 
Charter and purchases made thereon and confirmed by Charles the 2d. 
Virginia then delivered in to the committee written reasons for declining 
a similar politeness. Soon afterwards we received notice that the com- 
mittee were about to confer with the agents of these land companies. 
It was our idea that, as the cessions of the states and the memorials of 
the companies had been originally referred in general terms and the 
report upon them had been recommitted in terms, equally general, the 
committee had no power to proceed to hear counsel, receive evidence and 
go thro' the various forms of a regular forensic argument. Certainly 
we had propriety on our side. For it appeared on the face of the memorials 

[379]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



260 Continental Congress 

themselves that the subscribers to them claimed lands within the limits 
contended for by Virginia. To say nothing therefore of the resolutions 
abovementioned, if those lands lay within Virginia, to her and her tribu- 
nals alone ought the appeal to be made:- if out of Virginia, the con- 
federation does not authorize congress to decide in any manner concerning 
them. Add to this that it derogates from the dignity of a sovereign 
state to be drawn into contest with any individual or body of individuals. 
These doctrines, tho' urged in numberless shapes, could not prevail on 
congress to arrest the committee in their career. A new report was ac- 
cordingly made on Saturday last, in which it is recommended to Virginia 
to make a cession with different reservations and conditions. It still 
remains undetermined by the house. I shall forward the particulars to 
you upon the completion of the affair ; but in the mean time expect nothing 
favorable. I foresee that Virginia will repeal her cession. 

I have observed thus much, because I perceive from your letter that 
you wished for some information on the subject. But, my dear sir, I 
trust I may indulge myself in believing that the present assembly will 
not be irritated to pursue any harsh conduct, at any rate until an official 
account of the whole matter shall be transmitted by us. Until congress 
shall pass their judgment on this report it would be premature to enter 
into any public act respecting it. But let a greater point be consulted. The 
late capture of the british army opens the avenue to peace. It will be 
instantaneously shut up, if Great-Britain should have a single glance of 
a fracture in the American chain. The great ally too, whom we already 
have, and the two other powers whose friendship we solicit may be 
shocked at such a procedure. But let the event of the present report be what 
it will, I hope that no legislative act may be done beyond a protest against 
the authority now exercised by congress and a repeal of our cession.^ 

What I mean by a crisis is by this time plainly seen. Virginia is thus 
found not merely destitute of friends but surrounded by those who labour 
to retrench her territory. The enmity to her, tho' produced originally 
by her extent of soil, easily interweaves itself into other matters in which 
she is concerned. It is incumbent therefore on those who are at the helm 
of government to render her formidable by a happy management of her 
resources and by these means to produce the respect due to her real im- 
portance. I am justified in saying that she possesses real importance, 
when I recollect the quota assigned to her out of the eight millions of 
specie dollars called for by congress for the ensuing year. The confedera- 
tion, you know, has fixed the proportions of the states according to the 
value of the land granted and surveyed. There has not been sufficient 
time, since its final ratification, to procure such an estimate. Recourse 
was therefore necessarily had to capitation. But even here we had no 
accurate rule of computation, as we had not access to any census of 
inhabitants in the united states. The numbers, as stated by the delegates 
in 1775, were considered as the basis of calculation. Upon this priinciple 
our quota would amount to 1,323,408 dollars. On account of the ravages 
of war a deduction was made of 1/8. New York received also an abate- 

2 See nos. 360, 361, 368, 378, ante, 381, 384, 408, post. 



November, 1781 261 

ment of 1/2, North Carolina of 1/6, South-Carolina of 1/2 and Georgia 
of 2/3. But these deficiencies were afterwards distributed among all the 
states in proportion to their remaining sums. So that Virginia loses 
much of the advantage gained by the remission of 1/8 from the circum- 
stance of being obliged to bear a proportion of these deficiencies ; her 
present quota being about 1.300,000. However, every farthing which 
has been and will be advanced before the land is ascertained will be 
credited to the states, and whichsoever of them shall overpay its just 
quota upon this scale will receive interest of 6 per cent : per annum. 
The inclosed paper is the rough draught of a calculation to determine 
the proportions hitherto paid by the different states.^ 

I was extending this letter farther, when I recollected that the hour 
of congress is at hand, and that if I wrote any thing more it should be 
in transcribing these hasty and blotted pages. But, as the correspondence 
of friends requires no great nicety, I shall only repeat that I am D'r Sir 

Y'rs sincerely 

Edm : Randolph. 

380. The President of Congress to George Washington.' 

Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency a copy of an Act 
of Congress of the 7th instant, for your information and satisfaction. 

Your Excellency's letters of the 27th and 31st ult. have been received 
and laid before Congress. 

As this is the first opportunity I have had of writing to your Excellency, 
since Congress were pleased to elect me to the singular honor of being 
their President, and as a literary correspondence, from our mutual situ- 
ations, becomes indispensibly necessary between us, give me leave to 
assure you, Sir, that it will not only be a pleasure of a superior nature, 
but invariably my study, to render that correspondence as advantageous 
and agreeable as jx)ssible. 

Any intelligence worth communicating, which first reaches me, shall 
be related with unreserved freedom, candor and punctuality. And permit 
me to hope for a similar treatment from your Excellency. Already my 
knowledge of your Character leads me to anticipate infinite satisfaction. 

I cannot avoid mentioning, that the present Asj)ect of our Public 
Affairs is particularly pleasing; And So much do we seem extricated 

3 Cj. no. 376, ante, nos. 382, 398, 408, post. Nov. 21 Randolph made a motion 
(seconded by Daniel Carroll) that the states be requested to cause to be made and 
transmitted to Congress as soon as possible an enumeration of the white inhabitants of 
each, " pursuant to the ninth article of the Confederation " ; but the measure was defeated. 
Dec. ID Carroll appears to have proposed that whenever such an enumeration should be 
made the requisitions should be adjusted in accordance with the proportions shown by 
the enumeration (see the erased resolve in the Journals, Dec. 10) ; but whether it was 
defeated or withdrawn is uncertain. The next day (Dec. 11) Carroll offered a motion 
(seconded by Motte) varying from that of Randolph in only a single word (the phrase 
'• as soon as possible " was altered to " as soon as practicable " ) , and the motion was 
carried. In the meanwhile however there had been some changes in attendance. 

[380]' Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, p. 120; 
Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 439. 



Continental Congress 

from our perplexing difficulties, and such, I hope, is the power and force 
of recent Experience, that we shall not relapse into our former state of 
imbecility and distress. 

The events of the present Campaign will, no doubt, fill the most brilliant 
pages in the history of America. May Heaven still continue to smile on 
our efforts! With the highest sentiments of respect and esteem, believe 
me to be, Sir, 

Your Excellency's Most obedient and very humble Servt, 

John Hanson, President.' 

Philadelphia Nov. loth 1781. 



381. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.* 

Philada. Novr. 13th, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I was favored with yours of the 5th yesterday.^ .... 

Nothing definitive has taken place on the territorial cessions. That of 
Virga. will not I believe be accepted with the Conditions annexed to it. 
The opinion seems to be that an acceptance of the Cession [of] N. York 
will give Congress a title which will be maintainable against all the other 
claimants. In this however they will certainly be deceived, and even if 
it were otherwise it wo'd be their true interest as well as conformable to 
the plan on which the cessions were recommended, to bury all further 
contentions by covering the territory with the titles of as many of the 
claimants as possible. We are very anxious to bring the matter to issue 
that the State may know what course their honor and security require 
them to take. The present thinness of Congress makes it but too un- 
certain when we shall be able to accomplish it.^ . . . . 

[P. S.] A series of intercepted letters from Mr. Deane to his corre- 
spondents in America have been lately published in New York. The 
object of all of them, with degrees of varying from cautious insinuation 
to direct advice, is to bring America back to a dependence on Britain, 
modified according to the terms proposed by the Commissioners in 1778. 
The genuineness of some of these letters is upon good grounds questioned, 

2 This is the second official letter written by Hanson as President. The first, 
bearing the same date (Letter-Book, p. 118), conveys the thanks of Congress to the retiring 
President, Thomas McKean (original in Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, II. 67). 

[381 J 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; JVritings, I. 161. The letters of 
Madison in the group designated as Accession 108 1 were in many instances printed only in 
part in the Gilpin edition of the Papers of Madison, and, since these letters were not 
accessible to Dr. Gaillard Hunt when editing Madison's Writings, the latter collection 
included only such extracts from this group as were found in the Gilpin edition. It is 
not deemed necessary to point out in every instance additions which have here been drawn 
from the manuscript only. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Nov. 5 has not been found. 

' See nos. 378, 379, ante. A motion was made Nov. 14 to set Dec. 4 for the con- 
sideration of the question, but the motion was lost. See nos. 384, 392, 408, post. 



November, 1781 263 

but more of them contain marks of authenticity which clearly denounce 
him to be an apostate, and consign his character to the same infamy with 
that of his friend Arnold. This sentence is delivered here against him 
with the less hesitation because a prior and indubitable evidence of his 
degeneracy had been received through another channel. Whether this 
defection has proceeded, from a mercenary contract with the enemy, 
from a view of obtaining such an one, or from a chagrin at the obstacle 
which his country has by a total prohibition of intercourse with the enemy 
opposed to the commercial projects he went to Europe to execute is as 
yet matter of speculation.* 

382. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 13th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I am still in the dark about Vermont, and impatient to hear 
their determination about complying with the resolution of congress. 
.... In my last vist. Nov. 6th ^ I dwelt pretty largely upon the subject 
of our being over rated in the genl. tax for the year '82 which prevented 
my saying anything upon the tax in general. For which reason give me 
leave to make a few observations here. In the first place it was thought 
necessary to raise the sum of 8 million dollers for the year 1782. Perhaps 
the large debt we are in, and the interest we must annually pay, might 
influence the minds of some to raise so heavy a tax. Others perhaps 
think it best to demand a large sum to gain a small one : and that there 
is more room for those that choose to be deficient, and to pay nothing, 
when a redundancy is required. But to come nearer the point, can the 
united states pay 8 million? This question will be answered by another, 
ins, can N. Hampshire pay her quota of it, properly adjusted? Not in 
hnrd money, I suppose. Yet her utmost power has never been tryd, per- 
haps she can do more than we imagine. I allow her proportion rightly 
adjusted is 300,000 dollers, that is 5,000 yoke of oxen at 60 dollers a 
\oke. We can pay that. Nay we can make the oxen pay it, and not pay 
a shilling out ourselves. This would be financiering with a witness. I 

* The Royal Gazette of Oct. 20 announced the interception of a number of letters 
" that were on their way from Paris to certain demagogues in America ", which " dis- 
close the real state of the rebel affairs on the other side of the water, with the ultimate 
designs of the Courts of Versailles and Madrid, and the helpless condition of the Dutch, 
etc., etc., etc. Melancholy truths are indeed extorted at last, worthy the views of people 
too long cheated by their confidants. The public may be assured of having this rich repast 
spread before them by his Majesty's faithful Printer, in regular detail. A great part of the 
budget consists of the confidential epistles of Silas Deane and Doctor Franklin, fellow 
negociators in the secret transactions of their Congressional High Mightinesses, with their 
great and magnanimous Ally. The reader may therefore promise himself a copious supply 
of curious information from this correspondence". 

The publication of Deane's letters, which bear dates from May 14 to June 15, began 
in the issue of the Royal Gazette of Oct. 24 and continued through that of Dec. 12. Some 
of them were reprinted in Philadelphia. The letters may most conveniently be found in 
N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Deane Papers, IV., passim. A list of them (their dates, 
persons to whom addressed, and dates of publication) is found ibid., p. 501. Some later 
letters (September and October) likewise came under severe criticism. See no. 384, post. 
[382]! N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, X. 74. 

2 No. 376, ante. 



264 Continental Congress 

suppose a yoke of oxen to every three men, which wd. no doubt amount 
to 5,000 yoke. But you will say it is silver and not oxen that is demanded, 
true: but the art ret|uired is to turn these oxen of N. H. the cloathing, 
the flour, the forrage, the horses, and waggons etca., of other states into 
cash, or which is the same thing, to receive them sj^ecifically for the 
publick use. This we trust the great abilitys of our Financier to bring 
about. 

[P. S.] « . . . . 

383. The President of Congress to Certain States.^ 

Sir, 

Congress feel themselves reduced to the disagreeable necessity of direct- 
ing me to write to your Excellency respecting the deficiency of a Repre- 
sentation from your State. For a considerable time past only seven 
States have been represented, and those merely by the essential number 
of Delegates. From this information you will readily conceive, without 
a minute and painful detail, the numerous inconveniences and real dangers 
they are subjected to, abstracted from every consideration of interest, 
honor and reputation. The most important powers Vested in Congress 
by the Confederation lie dormant at this time by reason of the unpunctu- 
ality of the Delegates of six States, in point of attendance; and some 
of those powers too indispensibly necessary to be exercised at this great 
and important Crisis. 

Permit me, Sir, to flatter myself that it is superfluous to urge any 
thing more upon this delicate but momentous subject; and to hope that 
your Excellency's influence will be exerted to prevail upon your State 
to send forward and keep up a full representation in future.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 15, 1781. 

384. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 
Dear Sir, Philada. Nov'er i8th, 1781. 

By the conveyance through which you will receive this,^ the Delegates 
have communicated to the State the proceedings in Congress to which 

3 In what Livermore calls a " supplement " to his letter he further discusses the 
place of oxen in his scheme of taxation. 

[383] 1 Collection of the late Garrett D. W. Vroom of Trenton, N. J. (addressed to 
Governor Livingston of New Jersey) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 121 
(addressed "To His Excellency the Governor of the State of New York", and with the 
following " Note. The like verbatim to the President of the council of New Hampshire, 
the Governors of Connecticut, New Jersey and North Carolina, and the President of 
Delaware"). 

2 See the Journ-als, Nov. 14. A forceful illustration of the consequences of deficient 
representation is afforded by the vote on Randolph's motion, Nov. 21, when two noes 
prevailed against twenty ayes. In his reply, Dec. 10 {N. H. State Papers, X. 574), 
President Weare remarked : " Many months past a Delegate was appointed and he ac- 
cepted to proceed to Congress to join Mr. Livermore in the representation of this State, 
But such is our unhappy Situation with respect to a Currency, that it has not been in our 
Power to furnish him with a sufficiency of hard Money and none other will answer." 

[384] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 162; Papers, I. 102. 
2 Beneath the address Madison wrote, " Capt Irish is requested to deliver this 
to the Govr. of Virga. with the letter addressed to him ". This was Capt. Nathaniel Irish. 
See no. 387, post. 



November, ij8i 265 

the territorial cessions have given birth. The complexion of them will 
I suppose be somewhat unexpected, and produce no small irritation. They 
clearly speak the hostile machinations of some of the States against our 
territorial claims, and afford suspicions that the predominant temper 
of Congress may coincide with them. It is proper to recollect however 
that the rejxjrt of the Committee having not yet been taken into con- 
sideration, no certain inference can be drawn as to its issue, and that the 
report itself is not founded on the obnoxious doctrine of an inherent right 
in the U. States to the territory in question, but on the expediency of 
cloathing them with the title of New York which is supposed to be 
maintainable against all others. It is proper also to be considered that 
the proceedings of the Committee, which we labored in vain to arrest, 
were vindicated not by the pretext of a jurisdiction belonging to Congress 
in such cases, but alleged to have been made necessary by the conditions 
annexed to the Cession of Virginia. Although the cession of Virginia 
will probably be rejected, on the whole, I do not think it probable that 
all the principles and positions contained in the report of the Committee 
will be ratified. The Committee was composed of a member from 
Maryland, Pennsylvania, N. Jersey, Rhode Island and N. Hampshire ; 
all of which States except the last are systematically and notoriously 
adverse to the claims of Western Territory and particularly those of 
Virginia. The opinion of the Committee is therefore no just index of 
the opinion of Congress, and it is a rule observed since the Confederation 
was completed, that seven votes are requisite in every question, and there 
are seldom more than 7, 8, 9 or 10 States present, even the opinion of 
a Majority of Congress is a very different thing from a constitutional 
vote. I mention these particulars that you may be the better able to 
counteract any intemperate measures that may be urged in the legislature. 
I do not hesitate to declare my opinion that the State will not only find 
in the communications we have made to them ample justification for 
revoking or at least suspending their Act of Cession, and remonstrating 
against any interference with respect to cases within their jurisdiction, 
but that they ought in all their provisions for their future security, im- 
portance, and interest to presume that the present Union will but little 
survive the present war. I am equally sensible nevertheless of the necessity 
of great temper and moderation with respect to the first point, and in the 
last that they ought to be as fully impressed with the necessity of the 
Union during the war as of its possible dissolution after it. If the State 
wishes any particular steps to be pursued by the Delegates, it would be 
well for particular instructions to that effect to be given. These will 
not only be a guide to us, but will give greater weight to whatever is 
urged by us.^ 

I inclose you a paper containing two of the many letters lately published 
in New York with the subscription of Mr. Deane's name. The genuine- 
ness of some of them and particularly that to Mr. Morris is generally 
doubted. There are some who think the whole of them spurious. How- 
ever this may be there is through another channel indubitable proof that 

3 See nos. 379, 381, ante. 392, 408, 429, post. 
21 



266 Continental Congress 

no injustice is done in ascribing to him the sentiments advanced in these 
letters. Either from pique, interested projects of trade, or a traitorous 
correspondence with the Enemy, he has certainly apostatized from his 
first principles.* .... 

385. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. i8th 1781. 
Sir, 

This short letter will inform your Excellency of my safe Arrival here 
on friday last. Genl. Varnum and Mr. Mowrey will make you and the 
Genl. Assembly acquainted with the news and present State of politics, 
therefore permit me, sir, to refer you to them. 

The naked condition of our Treasury when I left the State, would 
have render'd any application for money fruitless. I therefore came off 
with the small sum which could be spared from my family, without 
asking a grant from the General Assembly. That small sum will soon 
be expended, and unless I am furnished with money from the State, I 
shall be in a miserable situation indeed 

386. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

Philadelpha, 19th Novr. 1781. 
My Dear, 

I arrived here safely last Wednesday and am well 

The Letters published under the Signature of Mr. Dean are I perceive 
supposed to be genuine, but that the Composition has been improved by 
our Enemy, but by his Friends in Case the Letters are his. Mr. Morrice's 
Character does not suffer in the least by having Mr. Dean's Letters di- 
rected to him.^ .... 

* See no. 381, ante. Robert R. Livingston wrote to James Duane Nov. 2: "Two 
Letters said to be from Dean to Duer, and to R. Morris, are the subject of much con- 
versation here, and will I suppose furnish no small triumph to the warm partizans of 
[Arthur Lee?] they place our affairs in Europe in the most melancholy light, and 
recommend to us to make terms with Britain at any rate. Most people doubt their 
authenticity. I should myself be of their opinion if I had not reason to believe that Deane 
has been wavering for some time past" (N. Y. Hist. Soc. Duane Papers, V. 383). Cf. 
Livingston to Jay Nov. i (Wharton, Rev. DipL Corr., IV. 816) ; see also the Journals, 
Jan. 17, 19, 1782, and nos. 386, 408, 430, 431, post. 

Pierce Butler of South Carolina, at this time in Philadelphia, subsequently a member of 
Congress, wrote to James Iredell Nov. 16: 

" Congress have appointed a variety of public officers, by which they have, in my 
humble opinion, given nearly all power out of their own hands, reducing themselves to a 

state of insignificance In the Freeman's Journal of the 14th you will see two very 

extraordinary letters from Mr. Silas Dean. I took an opportunity of asking the gentlemen 
they are addressed to, being well accquainted with them, if they are genuine : they acknowl- 
edged to me they were — they received the duplicates by other vessels. What an un- 
principled wretch must Dean be ! He who puts his hand, as Minister from America, to the 
very Treaty he reprobates. From the whole tenor of his letters, I must think he has been 
bought — Money ill bestowed!" McRee, Life of Iredell. I. 560 (printed in italics). 

[385]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 52; Staples, R. I. in Conf. 
Cong., p. 356. 

[386)1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, III. 55 (addressed to Mrs. Laura Wolcott, 
Litchfield). 

2 See no. 384, ante. 



November, 1781 2«7 

387. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Nelson).^ 

Our Letter of the 17th. by Capt. Irish contains those communications, 
which would otherwise have been the subject of this weeks correspond- 
ence.^ 

We have now to acknowledge the receipt of Mr. Andrews's Letter of 
the 9th conveying to us the disagreeable information of your Excellencies 
indisposition from which however he gives us reason to hope you will 
be soon recovered and able to repair to Richmond.* The requests con- 
tained in his Letter respecting the Guard and provisions furnished by the 
State for the security and support of the British prisoners at Winchester 
shall be attended to and answered as soon as it is in our power.* .... 

Phila. 20th Nov. 1 78 1. 

388. The Secretary of Congress to the Superintendent of 
Finance (Robert Morris).^ 

Secretary's Office November 21st, 1781. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to return the draught of a T-^tter to his Excellency 
Don Galvez reported by you in pursuance of the order of the 7th Inst, 
and to inform you it is the pleasure of Congress that you sign and transmit 
it to his Excellency by the first opportunity.^ 

As the letter is to go from your Office, it may be proper that the Papers 
on which the letter is grounded should be lodged there, I have therefore 
returned them with your draught 

389. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 23d, 1781. 
Sir, 

We are honored with your favour of the 8th instant pr. Brown. Mr. 
Wolcott arrived here the 14th. There are now nine States represented 

[387]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Randolph, and Jones); 
Cal. Va. State Papers. II. 614. 

2 See no. 381, ante, and no. 429, post. 

3 Robert Andrews was secretary to Governor Nelson. See Official Letters, III. 
6&1., 96, 97. 

* See the Jourttals, Dec. 10. 

[388]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 571 ("copy "). 

- Morris's letter to Don Bernardo de Galvez, Nov. 21, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., IV. 852. 

On Nov. 13 the superintendent of finance addressed a letter to Congress proposing 
" that a salary be fixed to the office of President which may be adequate to the expense " 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 137, vol. II., f. zi2>\ Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 839). A 
provision for the President's household was adopted Nov. 21, but no salary was annexed 
to the office. See this editor's note on " Perquisites of the Presidents of the Continental 
Congress", in Am. Hist. Rev., XXXV. 69 (October, 1929). 

[389]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser.. III. 303 (signed by Richard Law and 
Oliver Wolcott). 



268 Continental Congress 

in Congress. In the arrangment of the Treasury Department it is pro- 
vided that the Financier recommend the number of Auditors requisite, 
which he has not yet done, but as soon as he makes rei)ort on that head, 
they will be appointed, and doubt not it will be thought necessary they 
repair to the respective States to liquidate their accts. The requisition 
for supplies is forwarded by the Financier, with his letter thereon.'' Tho 
our successes have been truly glorious and important the present year, 
yet it is of the utmost consequence that we suffer them not to slacken 
our exertions in making preparations for the insuing campaign, as that 
alone will put us on a respectable footing, either for negotiation or war. 
Congress have a Com'tee now out upon the subject of what number of 
troops is necessary and apportioning the quota of each State 

390. The President of Congress to the Marquis de Lafayette/ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 24, 1781. 

Sir, 

It is with infinite pleasure and satisfaction that I transmit to you the 
inclosed copy of an Act of Congress of the 23d instant. 

Believe me, Sir, that Congress being sensible of your great ability, 
integrity and fortitude, and your distinguished and zealous attachment 
to the cause of America, have, with the greatest chearfulness, bestowed 
upon you the new and great marks of confidence and esteem contained 
in that Act — and certain I am they could not have bestowed them more 
worthily or with greater propriety. 

I shall at this time only beg leave to assure you, that it is my most 
sincere and ardent prayer, that you may have a safe and prosperous 
Voyage to your native Country; that you may receive a gracious and 
welcome reception from the greatest and best of Kings ; and that you 
may arrive to an happy and pleasing interview with your Family : And 
permit me to indulge the Hope of your speedy return to America. 

391. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for Foreign 

Affairs (Robert R. Livingston).^ 

Sir, 

I have the honor to return enclosed the draught of a letter to the hon'ble 
Benjamin Franklin esqr. and to inform you that it is the pleasure of 
Congress that the letter be written and forwarded by you in your official 
character.^ 

Novr. 26, 1 78 1. 

2 Morris's circular letter to the states, dated Nov. 17, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., IV. 840; cf. ibid., pp. 790, 816, 818, 822, 831, 851. 

[390] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 127. 

[391]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 243 (bearing Livingston's 
endorsement). 

2 The Journals do not record Livingston's inquiry or the decision of Congress. 
However, an editorial note (p. 1141 n.) states that on Nov. 23 a letter of Major-General 
Duportail of the same day was referred to a committee and, " on their report, to the 



November, 1781 269 

392. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

[November 27, 1781.] 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 19th instant came to hand yesterday.^ On the same 
evening arrived our ilhistrious General returning to his position on the 
North river. We shall probably however have his company here for 
some days at least, where he will be able to give Congress very seasonable 
aid in settling the military establishment for the next year, about which 
there is some diversity of opinion/ .... 

The Delegates have lately transmitted to the Govr. for the Assembly 
all the proceedings which have taken place on the Subject of the territorial 
cessions.* The tenor of them and the reception given them by the assembly 
will I doubt not be communicated to you by some of your correspondents 
in it 

393. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 27th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I hinted to you in a former letter * that I should trouble you with 
another bill as soon as I could find a purchaser. My mony is almost 
gone and I can get no one at present to take my bill. Mr. Pringle says 
my other bill is not paid. No one wishes to purchase a bill otherwise than 
at ten days sight. You are sensible Sir a person can not live here without 
mony. What is to be done ? . . . . 

394. The Secretary of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Sir, 

I have the honor to inform your excellency that the United States in 
Congress assembled have resolved to give you an Audience this day at 

Secretary of Foreign AflFairs ". Livingston's letter of inquiry, dated Nov. 25 (with which 
he also transmitted the " heads of the communication " made to him by the minister of 
France and by him communicated to Congress Nov. 23), is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
V. 3. The letter to Franklin respecting Duportail, dated Nov. 24, is ibid., IV. 868. Nov. 26 
Livingston wrote Franklin setting forth particularly the financial situation (ibid., V. 4). 
One copy of the letter (which is largely in cipher) is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Franklin Papers, 
I. 281, another in Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, V. 73. See also Robert Morris to 
Franklin Nov. 27 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 12). 

[392] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, p. 41; Writings, I. 164. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Nov. 19 is in Mass. Hist. See., Proceedings, second ser., 
XIX. 144. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 27, 28, and nos. 395, 403, post. Madison expresses the hope 
that Virginia will not fail to bring into the field her quota of men. 

* See nos. 379, 381, 384, ante. Apparently apropos of this question, Pendleton 
remarked in his letter of Nov. 19: "I find your brood committee have at length hatched 
a report, and though it seems probable from circumstances that it may not be agreed to at 
present, yet what is the consequence? It will I suppose lie on your table and be ready 
for all the operations of intrigue, party and finesse." 
[393]^ N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 80. 

2 Oct. 30, no. 367, ante. The omitted part of the letter chiefly concerns Livermore's 
financial predicament. 

[394]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



270 Continental Congress 

One oclock in order to give you a farther testimony of the high esteem 
they have for your person and services and to communicate their inten- 
tions respecting provisional measures for the next campaign. 

Wednesday Novr. 28, 1781. 



395. A Committee of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 28th, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am instructed by the Committee, appointed to consider the establish- 
ment of the army, and to confer thereon with your Excellency, the 
Secretary of War, and the Superintendant of Finance, to request your 
aid on this Subject, at 11 oClock on Saturday morning, in the Committee 
room of Congress." 

It is impossible to Specify all the particulars of this enquiry; I shall 
therefore suggest to your Excellency the most obvious points in it only. 

1st. What number of infantry, cavalry, and artillery will be equal to 
offensive operations ? 

2d. What number of commission'd, and staff officers are there above 
the complement of 25,000 rank and file? 

^d. How many commission'd, and staff officers will be necessary for 
10,000 rank and file? 

4th. What will be the amount of their pay, subsistence, and emolu- 
ments etc. ? 

^th. Of what number does the present army consist? 

6th. What is the number of men in the different lines? 

/th. Cou'd a reduction of the Officers be made with propriety ? 

8th. Upon what revenue can the United States count with a reasonable 
prospect of success? 

pth. Is it proper, that Congress shou'd engage any bounty? 

lOth. By what day shou'd the men be requir'd to be in the field ? 

nth. If a reduction of officers shou'd be ordered, by what time cou'd 
it be accomplished, and upon what principles? 

1 2th. What wou'd be the amount of the 1/2 pay of the officers for 
10,000 Rank and file? 

The preceding points, tho' not in the whole relative to Yr. Excellencys 
functions, are notwithstanding submitted to yr. consideration, that you 
may have a general view of the matter on which the Committee propose 
to confer. 

I have the honor to be with great esteem 

Yr Excellencys Most obt. and hble. Sevt. 

Danl. Carroll Chr. of the Com'ee. 

[395]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

■'See the JournaJs, Kov. 27, 28, and nos. 227, 232, 247, 265, ante, 403, 406, post. 
Washington attended Congress Nov. 28. He replied to this letter, Nov. 30 (Washington 
Papers), that the queries were too extensive for him to be prepared to answer them at once. 



December, ij8i 271 

396. Samuel Osgood to William Heath.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 30th 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favor of the 12th Instant, addressed to the Delegates of Massa- 
chusetts, was duely received. We are sensible that the Mass'tts Line have 
a Right to the Promotion which you mention ; and an Attempt was made 
some Time since, but faild of Success. 

General Lincoln having accepted the Appointment of Secretary of 
War; no Promotions can be effected but thro him — And as he is fully 
acquainted with the particular Matter, about which you have wrote to 
us. we flatter ourselves, that he will give it that Attention which it merits. 

As the Commander in Chief is now in the City, and a Committee of 
Congress are appointed to confer with him upon several Subjects, the 
Promotion due to the Massachusetts Line, will be particularly attended 
to by the Delegates of that State. 

397. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Circular. 
Sir, 

You will receive enclosed herewith a copy of an Act of Congress of 
the 23d. instant, respecting infractions of the Laws of Nations, and the 
erection of proper tribunals for punishing them. 

Such is the importance of the objects reconmiended in that Act, and 
so obvious is the necessity for some regulations respecting them, that I 
feel satisfied they will engage the immediate attention of your Honor 
and the Legislature of your State. 

Philadelphia, 31 Nov. 1781.' 

398. The Georgia Delegates to the Speaker of the Georgia 
Assembly (John Jones). ^ 

December 3rd, 1781. 
Sir, 

.... You may in all probability be informed by the Superintendant 
of Finance That the Quota allotted to Georgia of Eight Millions of 
Dollars to be raised in the United States for the ensueing cam- 
paign, has been ascertained at twenty four thousand nine hundred and 
five Dollars. We used every possible means to reduce even that sum : 
and upon the close of the estimate Congress were informed that a Tax 

[396] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Heath Papers (signed, "Samuel Osgood In Behalf of the 
Delegates "). 

[397]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 733 (to the governor of Georgia) ; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 128 ; id. to the governor of Virginia, see Henkels, 
Catalogue, nos. 1074 (pt. HL), 1139, and 1189; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 463; Clinton 
Papers, VII. 531 ; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 559. 

2 The letter-book copy and all the texts which have been noted bear the date Nov. 31. 
A letter from President Hanson to Washington, transmitting a resolve of Nov. 28, is like- 
wise dated "31st Nov. 1781 ". 

[398]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 59, p. 579 (signed by Edward Telfair and 
N. W. Jones). 



272 Continental Congress 

Bill was not to be expected, as our distress, by means of the ravages of 
the enemy had efifectually precluded every idea of Taxation for some 
time. We therefore hope you will rest easy on this head." .... 

399. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).* 

Philadelphia, December 3d 1781. 
Sir, 

I have been here about ten days but am not able to give a Vote in 
Congress as my Collegue is not yet arrived. Several States being un- 
represented as well as ours, which makes a very thin house and Difficult 
to do Business as every Question Requires seven states to agree to it 
before it can pass. 

.... I hope another of my Colegues will come on as soon as possible, 
for it is very Disagreable for me to be attending here without being 
able to give a Vote on Interesting Questions. I would, therefore, beg 
that you would urge the Attendance of some one or other of them.^ .... 

400. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 

(Thomas Nelson).* 

Phila'a 4th Deer. 1781. 
S'r, 

Relying on the assurances given by your Excellency, that we should 
be releived from our embarrassment here, by the agency of Mr. Ross to 
whom our supply had been committed, we ceased from further repre- 
sentations on that head, believing them to be as disagreeable to you as 
they were painfull to ourselves — but the experience we have had of 
Mr. Ross's exertions serves only to shew he wants either the inclination 
or the ability to extricat[e] us from our difificulties, the supplies furnished 
being inadequate to our occasions, and chiefly by Bills drawn upon Credit 
obtained here payable from forty to sixty days sight, and discounted 
at a loss to the State of from 10 to 18 and 20 per cent. — a trafic as disagree- 
able to us as dishonourable and injurious to our constituents." .... 

401. James Lovell to Mrs. Abigail Adams.* 

Deer. 4th, 1 78 1. 

In answer to some Questions contained in your Letter of Sepr. 26, 

you may know that Mr. Laurens might [pay any sum up to five hundred 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 30, Nov. 2 ; cf. 376, 379, ante. 
[399] 1 Clinton Pap^ers, VII. 535. 

2 See the letter of John Morin Scott to Governor Clinton, written from Fish Kill 
Dec. 1 {ibid., p. 532), and Clinton to Scott Dec. 3 {ibid., p. 539). 

[400]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Randolph, and Jones) ; 
Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 639. 

2 The remainder of the letter pertains to a bill drawn on the governor, '' which, 
if duly honoured in Virginia, will establish a fund of supply for the Delegates, who may 
attend in Congress, for part of the ensuing year, and relieve them from the inconveniencies 
and anxiety of precarious subsistance ". 
[401]^ Adams MSS., Boston. 



December, 1781 273 

pounds] S'g therefore the same is now to be done at discretion. [F. Dana 
is] accompanied under somewhat similar discretionary stipulations.^ In- 
deed you are mistaken about the Scales. I should be happy to be sure 
of what you only conjecture. I mean that [J. Jay g"oes.] ' . . . . 

402. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia, December 5th, 1781. 
Sir, 

I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency that you proceed 
to the exchange of Officers that are on parole, for an equal number of 
our Officers who are Prisoners of War, Rank for Rank ; and where that 
will not apply to proceed by composition, as far as the enemy will agree, 
without exchanging Lieutenant Genl. Earl Cornwallis.^ 

403. Daniel Carroll to George Washington.^ 

Ph'a Deer. 5th 1781. 
Sir, 

The Committee has instructed me to submit to yr. Excellencys con- 
sideration the enclosed propositions relative to the army, on which they 
desire to confer with you in the Committee room of Congress at half 
hour after ten OClock to morrow morning if convenient.^ 

[The following resolutions, in Carroll's writing, although found in 
the Washington Papers in connection with his letter of November 28, 
are evidently the resolutions here referred to:] 

Resolv'd that the Legislature of each State raise at the expence thereof in 
the first instance, to be reimburs'd by the United States, so many men, as may 
be necessary to complete its Quota of the number of land-forces agreed uix)n 
in the resolutions of the third and twenty first day of Octr. 1780, calculating its 
deficiency upon the number of men which it will probably have in the field on 
the first day of March next. 

Resolv'd, that the Commander-in-Chief cause returns to be made, as speedily 
as possible, to the Legislature of each State of the number of men, which such 

- The question to which Lovell is replying appears to relate to the authority pos- 
sessed by John Adams, as the successor of Henry Laurens to the Dutch mission, for the 
payment of a secretary. In Laurens's case the resolution of Nov. i, 1779, limited the 
salary of his secretary to three hundred pounds, but the resolution was reconsidered a few 
days later and altered to read, " not exceeding five hundred pounds sterling per annum " 
{Journals, Nov. 5, 6, 1779). The provision in Dana's case (June 26, 1781) was "a sum 
sufficient to enable him to engage a private secretary, or clerk, when he shall assume 
his public character of minister plenipotentiary to the Court of Petersburg ". In the mean- 
time Dana was to serve as secretary to the ministers appointed to negotiate a peace, at a 
salary of one thousand pounds sterling per annum in full for services and expenses 
(Journals, Oct. 4, 1779). See also a memorandum respecting the salaries of ministers and 
their secretaries, in the Journals under Jan. 2, 1782. 

3 The words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 166, note 2, ante. 
[402]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book. p. 129. 

2 Such an instruction is not recorded in the Journals. See however the motion of 
Madison Dec. 3 (Journals, pp. 1150-1151). Concerning the exception proposed to be made 
in the case of Cornwallis see no. 365 (note 2), ante, no. 423 (note 3), post. 

[403] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.; Library of Congress, Washington Papers 
(" recent copy ", dated Dec. i). 

2 See no. 395, ante, no. 406, post, and the Journals, Dec. 10. 



274 Continental Congress 

State will probably have in the field, under the present inlistments, on the first 
day of March next. 

Resolv'd, that the Legislature of each State be called upon in the most 
pressing manner, to have the regiments thereof compleated and in the field by 
the first day of March next at farthest. 

Resolv'd, that it be recommended to the Legislature of each State to fill up 
the regiments thereof for three years, or during the war. 

Resolv'd, that after the first day of each State shall be accountable 

to the United States for the pay and emoluments of every regimental Officer 
belonging thereto, who shall be excluded from actual employment in their 
respective grades, by a deficiency in the number of men hereby requir'd from 
such State, or in the number which may be deemd by the Comander in Chief 
proper for the actual employment of the Officers in their respective grades. 

404. Benjamin Hawkins to Abner Nash/ 

-, ^. Philadelphia i;th deer. 1781. 

Dear Sir, -^ ' 

.... The Dutch at last seem determined to act spiritedly, and are mak- 
ing great exertions to repair and Augment their navy, we now expect 
a loan of money from them, and we have some assurances that our 
expectations are well founded,^ I say this because on some former occa- 
sions it has been expected from whence [a loan?] was not to be had 

I have obtained from Congress for our State one thousand stand of 
arms, in addition to the thousand furnished by the Commander in Chief, 
to be delivered immediately to our [or]der at Richmond with Cartridge 
boxes, Flints, Cartridges, powder and Musket Ball, in proportion to the 
muskets,' tho I hope by this you do not need them, as I expect the post 
at Wilmington will be this month reduced or evacuated, and the enemy 
be pent up at Charlestown, by a regular form until we shall be able to 
reduce them. 

I must repeat to you my old request that you would come on to Con- 
gress, as soon as the assembly sets. You would be happy here. I shall 
return shortly, I hope 

It is now one o'clock at night therefore adieu, as I can write no more. 

Benjamin Hawkins. 

405. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

_. Philadelphia December 6th 1781. 

oxr, 

Since writing to your Excellency two days ago I have been honoured 

with your Letter of the 24th of Nov'br with Several others therewith 

Enclosed, all which are Delivered.^ 

[404]! N. C. Hist. Comm. (addressed, "Abner Nash esquire, New Bern"). 

2 See the " heads of a verbal communication " from the minister of France to the 
secretary for foreign affairs, in the Journals, Nov. 23. The Maryland delegates sent to 
Governor Lee, Dec. 4, an extract from this communication, referring particularly to the 
minister's statement that he had reason to think that the loan negotiating in Holland would 
be completed (Arch, of Md., XLVH. 562). Cf. no. 391, ante, no. 406, post. 

8 See the Journals, Nov. 20, Dec. 3. 
[405]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4197; Clinton Papers, VU. 555- 

2 A letter from Clinton to the delegates Nov. 24 is in Clinton Papers, VH. 515. 
A letter to the President of Congress, of the same date, transmitting resolutions of the 



December, 178 1 275 

The Concurrent Resolves of the Senate and Assembly Respecting the 
New Hampshire Grants has been Read, and I did my Endeavour to have 
them Entered on the Journals, but Could not Succeed in that ; Gentlemen 
who were opposed to it urged, that it was unpresedented and very Im- 
proper to Enter on their Journals, Concurrent Resolves of any State, 
which had a Direct tendency to Criminate Certain Resolutions of Con- 
gress. It Stands Entered on the Journal that they were Read and ordered 
to be Filed in the Secretaries office.' 

The other Resolves with your Excellencys Letter Shewing the Dis- 
tressed Circumstances of our State, I have got Committed to a Special 
Committee, and as soon as the Determination of Congress is had thereon 
I will do myself the pleasure to advise you thereof.* 

406. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, December 6, 1781. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to inform your Excellency, that the Minister 
Plenipotentiary from the Court of France to these United States, has 
lately communicated to Congress, thro' our Secretary for foreign Affairs, 
that he had it in command from the Minister of France, to inform 
Congress, that the King, his Master, was highly pleased with the Confi- 
dence Congress had placed in him, and that the King would pay the 
same Attention to the interest of the United States, as to that of France ; 
that Congress would have no reason to say that they had misplaced their 
Trust, that if all was not obtained that the United States had reason to 
expect, it must be imputed to the unavoidable Events of War, that from 
the late successes and present appearances, the King had no reason to 
expect he should be under the necessity of making any concessions, either 
on his own part, or that of the United States, that it is his most earnest 
wish, that every possible Measure should be taken and every exertion 
made by the United States to be ready for an early and spirited campaign. 
The reasons are given that make those measures the more necessary, but 
must at present be omitted." 

.... Congress have received a letter from the Governor of the State 
of New York, inclosing a number of resolutions of the Senate and 
Assembly, of that state, declaring their right in and over the territory or 
tract of land heretofore called, the New Hampshire Grants, the allegiance, 
that hath been from time to time paid by the people inhabiting those 

New York assembly Nov. 15 and 19, is ibid., p. 516. The resolutions are ibid., pp. 516-519. 
Another letter from Governor Clinton to President Hanson, Nov. 24, respecting the 
financial condition of the state, is ibid., p. 520. Letters of the same date to the secretary 
for foreign affairs and to the superintendent of finance are ibid., pp. 514, 523. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 5, 6; also no. 304, note 3, ante, nos. 407, 414, 416, 422, post. 

* See the JoumaJs, Dec. 5 (p. ii6on.), 20, and nos. 422, 434, post. Governor 

Qinton wrote to Floyd Dec. 3 respecting a personal account of the year 1776 for advances 

to the commissariat (Clinton Papers, VII. 535), and Floyd replied Dec. 15 (ibid., p. 581). 

[406] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 62 (signed by Ellery and 

Cornell) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 357. 

2 See nos. 391, 404, ante. 



276 Continental Congress 

lands, to the said State, also, protesting against the Acts of Congress that 
declare the aforesaid Territory to be an indejjendent State, by the Name 
of Vermont and setting forth that the said Acts are contrary to several 
articles of the Confederation, and further protesting against any measures 
that have been taken by Congress, or that they shall hereafter take to 
carry said Acts into execution, and finally instructing their Delegates in 
Congress to use every means in their power to prevent the same. Congress 
have not received a single line of intelligence from the State of Vermont 
since the passing the aforementioned acts.' .... 

A committee has been appointed to confer with the Commander in 
chief and Secretary at War on the best measures for arranging and filling 
up the Army, so as to make it respectable. The committee have reported 
that it is inexpedient to make any alterations in the last arrangement that 
was made by Congress on the 3d and 21st of October 1780 and that the 
several States be called upon to fill their Regiments with Recruits to 
serve for three years or during the War. It appears probable. Congress 
will agree to the Report of the Committee, and that requisitions will be 
sent to the several states accordingly. If this should take place we shall 
be happy to give you the earliest information. We apprehend you will be 
a little surprized at the deficiency that will appear to be in our Regiment 
when Col. Olney's Returns come to hand. The Colonel is arrived at the 
Head of Elk with his Regiment, after having experienced almost every 
kind of distress in a long passage by Water from York Town. The 
Regiment is very sickly, the small Pox has got among the last Recruits, 
in this case they are not alone, many from other regiments being down 
with it. 

All the Executive Business under Congress is now in new hands and 
we hope for the better and have the happiness to think that not only much 
less money is misapplied, than has been at many former Periods, but 
turned to much more advantage to the Public 

Since writing the above, the Report of the Committee respecting the 
Arrangements of the Army, as mentioned in a preceding paragraph, has 
been agreed to in Congress without any alterations. The Resolutions 
will be forwarded to you by the Secretary of Congress by this or next 
post.* We beg leave to refer you to the inclosed News Papers, for the 
little public News there is at this time passing. 

407. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Deer. loth, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I have drawn you a bill for one hundred pounds at ten days sight. The 
bill I suppose will be sent by Mr. Robert Morris in whose favour it is 
drawn to Col. Langdon for the use of the 74 gun ship he is building. 

3 See no. 405, ante. 

* See nos. 395, 403, ante, and the Journals, Dec. 10. 
[407]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 84; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXV. 141 (last paragraph). 



December, ij8i 277 

I have heard nothing about a new choice of deUgates in N. H. conse- 
quently I take it to be the pleasure of the state that I should stay here 
'till the 1 8th Jany. and then return. If I should hear nothing from you 
I shall shape my course accordingly. I suppose the above sum will just 
bring me home. 

The State of New York have sent Congress a resolution of theirs by 
way of protest against the proceedings of congress, in the affairs of 
Vermont, and as Vermont does not appear to comply with Congress in 
their resolution of Augt. last, I expect the whole work will be to go over 
again." President Wheelock is here, he professes to have nothing to do 
about the state of Vermont, but to obtain something for the college. He 
also says he expected that Vermont would quit their claim east of Con- 
necticut river : agreable to the resolution of Congress.'' 

408. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.* 

D'r nth, 1781. 
D'r Sir, 

I am favored with yours of the 3d instant.^ .... 

On whichever side Mr. Deanes letters are viewed they present mysteries. 
Whether they be supposed genuine or spurious or a mixture of both, 
difficulties which cannot well be answered may be started. There are 
however passages in some of them which can scarcely be imputed to any 
other hand. But it is unnecessary to rely on these publications for the 
real character of the man. There is evidence of his obliquity which has 
for a considerable time been conclusive.' 

Congress have not resumed their proceedings on the western business.* 
They have agreed on a requisition on the States for 8,000,000 of Dollars 
and a completion of their lines according to the last establishment of the 

- See nos. 405, 406, ante, 414, 416, 422, post ; also the Journals, Dec. 12 (p. 1166 n.). 
3 See the Journals, Dec. 14, 1781. Jan. 8. 1782. 
[408]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers; IVritinys, I. 166. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Dec. 3 is in Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, second ser., XIX. 

143- 

3 See nos. 381, 384, ante, 430, 431, post. Pendleton had written concerning the 
Deane letters : " I have long given up E)eane as an unworthy man whom I thought much 
otherwise when I served with him in Congress. I thought he was taking some steps 
injurious to America in an improper commerce, and thought avarice his greatest crime, 
not suspecting him of apostacy from our cause. There is one circumstance rather against 
the authenticity of these letters, that in case of a bargain with them they would not have 
exposed his letters. However, there is no reasoning from their blunders." 

Arthur Lee wrote to Dr. William Shippen Nov. 24 : " If my action against Deane is 
brought on now, I think a Jury will give me swinging damages. It will give me great 
pleasure to see Payne's observations on his Letters. Duane is in my opinion a greater 
and more dangerous villian than Deane. Time will shew him too in spite of all his cunning " 
(Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 747). See also Thomas Paine to Robert Morris, 
Nov. 28, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. I2. 

* Pendleton had remarked : " Of the territorial cession offered by Virginia I 
have perhaps already said too much and shall only add that if there were twenty cTaimers 
of my land, and each offered a cession of their title without any consideration I should 
think it common prudence to accept them all, and thereby avoid the disagreeable necessity 
of deciding which of them was entitled to a preference ; nor can I conceive what harm the 
Virginia cession would have done the United States upon the supposition that New York 
had a better title." See nos. 381, 384, ante, no. 429, post. 



278 Continental Congress 

army. We endeavored, tho' with very little effect to obtain deductions in 
the first article from the quota of Virginia but we did not oppose the 
aggregate of the demand in either. If we do not obtain a sufficiency of 
men and money from the States by regular and duly apportioned calls 
we know by experience that the burden of the war will fall on the resources 
of the States wch happen to be the subject of it.*^ .... 

409. The President of Congress to the Several States.* 

Philadelphia, 12th Deer. 1781. 
Circular. 
Sir, 

Altho' the present as^^ect of American Affairs is truly favorable, and 
opens to our view the brightest prospects of a glorious peace and the 
unmolested possession of the invaluable rights we have nobly dared to 
contend for, yet a relaxation in our exertions will not only be disgraceful, 
but may prove dangerous and even fatal to our Liberties. Congress, on 
their part, are determined to prevent both the one and the other, and 
accordingly have thought proper, by their Act of the loth instant, a copy 
of which I have the honor of enclosing your Excellency, to call upon the 
Legislature of each State, in the most pressing manner, to compleat the 
Quota of Troops assigned to them. The same Act contains several other 
requisitions, and the whole of such evident magnitude and importance 
as render it unnecessary to urge any thing more upon the subject.* 

I have the honor likewise of transmitting to your Excellency a copy of 
an Act of Congress of the nth instant, recommending it to the Legisla- 
ture of each State to ascertain, as soon as practicable, their number of 
white Inhabitants. 

A foundation for equal Justice, on a very important occasion, being 
the object they have in view in requiring the above information, your 
Excellency and the Legislature of your State will, no doubt, concur with 
me in opinion, that the business should be accomplished with all possible 
accuracy and dispatch. 

410. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.* 

Deer. 13th 1 78 1. 
Sir, 

.... I was perplexed in the Affair of Warren. Your Letter was much 
the Cause. I thought you had patronized the Presentment of the Accounts 
here upon grounds which had not allowed you to consider enough the 
implied Stigma upon the State of Massachusetts and the Intimates of 
our deceased Friend Genl. \\'arren. I find however such Proofs of the 

5 Concerning the requisition on the states see the Journals, Oct. 30, Nov. 2, and 
nos. 376, 379, 382, 398. ante. With regard to the army see nos. 395. 403, 406, ante; also 
the Journals, Dec. 10, 17, and no. 409, post. 

[409]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 104; Arch, of Md., XLVII. 572; N. J. State Lib.; 
A^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 296 ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 129. 
2 See also the letter to the states, in the Journals, Dec. 17. 
[410]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



December, 1781 279 

Discountenance which Doct'r Warren has met with that I think myself 
at Liberty to solicit for him in this Quarter. I cannot say much in Favor 
of yr. pressing Mr. Willson's Case forward as any Ways singular. He is 
but one of Thousands, and until the States really furnish Congress with 
Funds such Apyplications as his can only give Pain to the Delegates with- 
out procuring Relief for the Petitioners.^ .... 

Alas ! Alas ! When I presented the instructions from the State respect- 
ing the Subject of the F — s [Fisheries] I thought very little or no objection 
would me [ jtc] made, but I was greatly mistaken. The Proceedings here of 
1779 respecting that Business are made Airs of. But, I will be more par- 
ticular in Cyphers in my next to you or to Secretary Avery.' 

411. The President of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia 14th Dec. 1781.- 
Sir, 

I have the honor of inclosing you a copy of an Act of Congress of the 
loth instant, calling upon the Legislature of each State, in the most press- 
ing manner to cause the quota of troops assigned to them to be compleated 
and in the Field by an early day the ensuing Spring. The same Act 
contains several other salutary and necessary requisitions, by all of which 
you will readily observe the fixed determination of Congress to prevent, 
as far as their power extends, the danger and disgrace of a relaxation 
in our exertions at this favorable juncture of aflFairs. The prospect of 
establishing peace and independence, upon the sacred basis of equal liberty 
to all, is more bright at this time, than at any period during the War; 
and nothing seems to be more wanting to complete our work than a prudent 
and skilful management of the great and important advantages obtained 
by the late glorious events in Virginia and South Carolina. 

Your favour of the 21st ult. was received yesterday and laid before 
Congress this morning. We flatter ourselves that your sensible and very 
spirited letter to General Gould ^ will be productive of some good conse- 
quences; and are very happy to be informed of Leslie's arrival without 
Troops, as we had some apprehensions, in your present situation, from 

2 With regard to James Warren's account see vol. V., nos. 358, 586, and no. 9, 
note 3, ante. Following this passage is a long disquisition concerning Lovell's account as 
delegate to Congress. 

3 The Massachusetts instructions (Oct. 27) appear to have been presented to Con- 
gress Nov. 17 (see the Journals under Nov. 16, p. 1122 n.). The committee to whom they 
were referred made a report Dec. 12, which was recommitted. The instructions are spread 
upon the Journals, Aug. 20, 1782, together with an extensive report thereon. See nos. 593, 
597, post. 

[411]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 131. 

2 The South Carolina delegates (Bee, Mathews, Middletoii, and Motte) wrote to 
the secretary at war (Gen. Benjamin Lincoln) Dec. 14: "We request you will give a 
Discharge for Alexr. Robison now a prisoner in Lancaster Goal he being a Citizen of 
So. Carolina who took protection from the British and is now willing to comply with a 
late proclamation of the Governor of that State." At the foot of the letter is the following 
order : " You will cause Alexr. Robison to be set at liberty B. Lincoln, War Office 14 Deer. 
1 781 [Addressed] To the Officer Commanding at Lancaster." Library of Congress, South 
Carolina, Misc. 

3 Maj.-Gen. Paston Gould of the British army. 



280 Continental Congress 

a measure of that nature. We now most ardently wish for a Junction 
of Major General St. Clair with your little but glorious Army. Your's 
is the first official intelligence we have received of the evacuation of 
Wilmington. 

412. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia [December] i7th, 1781. 
Str, 

In answer to your favour of this day, I beg leave to inform your 
Excellency, that the Resolutions you allude to, were transmitted to Genl. 
Greene, by Express, on Saturday last ; and that it is the desire and expecta- 
tion of Congress that the Returns of the Troops composing the Southern 
Army should be called for by your Excellency, and forwarded to the 
Executives of the States to which they respectively belong.'-^ 

413. Abraham Clark to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly 

(John Mehelm).^ 

Philada. Deer. 17, 1781. 

Your favour of the loth to me, and of the 15th to the Delegates en- 
closing your instructions were reed, yesterday by Mr. Covenhoven. The 
instructions were laid before Congress, and the matters therein urged 
are referred to a committe, and will be duly attended to.^ .... 

414. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).'^ 

-, ^. Philada. Deer. iSth, 1781. 

Dear bir, ' 

I reed, yours of the 4th Instant with the papers inclosed which I this 

day laid before Congress (except those which contain the maneuvers of 

Vermont Assembly at Charlestown, which Congress were already possessed 

of). Congress appointed a Com'tee of five to take them into consideration 

and report. Every member of Congress but one appeared in our favour 

and against Vermont as far as I could judge. Nevertheless I do not 

pretend to predict the measures that will be taken. The labouring Oar 

I think is on Congress to support their own honour, dignity and authority : 

I wish to keep it so. I shall farther advise of what may turn up.^ 

[P. S.] 

[412] 1^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 133. 
2 The resolutions referred to were those of Dec. 10, enclosed to General Greene 
Dec. 14. 

[413]! N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 30; N. J. Rev. 
Corr., p. 300. 

2 The letter to the New Jersey delegates was read in Congress Dec. 18 (see the 
Journals, p. ii79n.) and referred to the committee (Daniel Carroll, chairman) appointed 
to confer with the commander-in-chief. (Clark's letter should probably bear the date 
Dec. 18.) The committee made a report Dec. 19. 

[414]! Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, H. 220; N. H. State Papers, X. 452. 

2Weare's letter of Dec. 4 (with the date 1782, but queried) is in N. H. State 
Papers, X. 468. Seethe Journals, Dec. 12 (p. ii66n.) and 18 (p. ii79n.), also nos. 416, 
424, post. 



December, 1781 281 

415. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philadelphia, Dec. i8th, 1781. 
Sir, 

At the request of Baron Steuben, a letter from him to your Excellency 
is herewith inclosed. 

The paper from the Secretary of War to Congress also inclosed is an 
answer to the two Resolutions of the General Assembly transmitted to 
us by your Excellency which were referred by Congress to the Depart- 
ments of war and finance." 

A Representation to the States on the subject of the late requisitions 
for the ensuing year agreed to yesterday in Congress is likewise herewith 
transmitted. It could not be authenticated for the reason applied in our 
last to the Resolutions relating to the completion of the Military Establish- 
ment. As soon as it has passed the last formality in Congress it will be 
transmitted by the President. 

We have thought proper to add to the other inclosures a table for the 
payment of loans to the U. S. computed under the direction of the late 
Treasury Board in pursuance of the Act of Congress of the 28th of June 
1780 on that subject. It will probably be of service in fixing the value of 
the depreciated currency advanced at different periods by Virginia to the 
U. States. 

The letter to Mr. Ross relates to sundry Slaves the property of some 
Gentlemen of the State of S. Carolina the meritorious sufferings of whom 
will sufficiently recommend what concerns their interests to your excel- 
lency's care and attention. 

P. S. We are obliged by the arrival of the hour for the post to omit 
the representation which we expected wd. have been ready for us. 

416. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Decem'r i8th, 1781. 
Sir, 

We do our selves the honor to inform your Excellency, that since our 
last, Congress has received a letter from the Governor of the State of 
Vermont ; Inclosing a number of resolves, of a grand committee, of both 
houses of assembly, and Acts or Laws of said State : ^ . . . . 

[415]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. (signed by Madison, Randolph, and 
Jones). 

2 The Virginia resolutions were referred, Dec. 11, to the secretary at war and the 
superintendent of finance {Journals, p. 1165 n.), and the former made a report, Dec. 12, 
of the conference between the two {ibid., p. ii66n.). Governor Harrison's letter to the 
delegates, Dec. i, is in Official Letters, HI. 103. 

[416]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 64 (signed by Ellery and 
Cornell) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 361. 

2 See no. 414, ante. The letter from Thomas Chittenden, governor of Vermont, 
dated Nov. 20, was read in Congress Dec. 12 (see the Journals, p. ii66n.). A copy of the 
letter is in Conn. Hist. Soc., Wolcott Papers, HI. 24. The Rhode Island delegates sum- 
marize the contents. 

22 



282 Continental Congress 

The Superintendent of Finance has presented to Congress an Ordinance 
for adjusting and setling the Accounts of the L'nited States with each 
Individual state etc. It has been read, and is committed to a special com- 
mittee, they now have it under consideration. We shall only mention 
some of the principal paragraphs 

We flatter our selves you will excuse us for not being more perticular 
on this Subject. The ordinance has not passed, and probably will under 
go some Alterations. We only wish to inform you of what is doing.' 

417. Oliver Wolcott to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Private Philadelphia, 19 Deer., 1781. 

Sir, 

Your Excellency will soon receive the recjuisition of Congress upon 
the State to compleat their battalions agreably to the last military estab- 
lish't, and also that the recruits be mustered in one or more places in the 
State, and supported by it in their march to the army. The address to 
the Legislatures pointing out the necessity of complying with the pecuniary 
and military aid required, will also be received.^ 

The Superintendant of Finance is endeavouring to contract for supplies 
for the stationary troops. 1 hear that he has contracted for supplies for 
the garrison at West Point that they shall be furnished at 93/2 d. for each 
ration in Pennsylvania money. He also intends as farr as possible to ob- 
viate the necessity of maintaining issuing posts. 

The mode for settling State accounts is not yet determined upon, it is 
under the consideration of a Committee.^ 

An Act ascertaining consular powers is nearly finished, but can have 
no operation till it shall be agreed to by France.* 

A plan for reducing a number of officers, or rather putting them uf>on 
half pay, who are considered as supernumerary, especially the general 
staff, is in contemplation, and will probably take effect.* .... 

P. S. I have sent to your Excellency a stating of claims of the Indiana 
company, which may not only be a subject of amusement, but afford 
some useful information, if the Susquehannah cause shall be brought to 
a tryal. 

3 The matter came up through a memorial of the state of New Jersey, referred, 
Nov. 23, to the superintendent of finance. A report from the superintendent, dated Dec. lo, 
was referred to a committee Dec. ii, and on Jan. 9, 1782, the committee brought in an 
ordinance for the settlement of public accounts. Under that date in the Journals will be 
found both the report of the committee and Morris's report of Dec. 10. The ordinance 
was under consideration Jan. 11 and 16 and was referred to a grand committee, which made 
a report Feb. 7. A plan was adopted Feb. 20. See no. 417, post. 
[417] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 304. 

2 The circular letter of Dec. 17 (in the Journals). 

3 See no. 416, ante, no. 423, post. 

* See the Journals, July 27, 28, Aug. 9, 23, 28, 31, Oct. 15, 1781 ; Jan. 9, 22, 25, 1782. 
^ See the report of the board of war, Nov. 16, in the Journals, Nov. 20 ; cf. ibid., 
Dec. 19, 31. 



December, 1781 283 

418. George Partridge to Elbridge Gerry.* 

Philadelphia Deer. 22d 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

I understood, by a Gentleman who arrived here from Boston some 
months ago, that it was your Design to be at Phila. this Winter, and I 
hoped, for several reasons that it would be the case; but the season for 
Journeying being over, I expect you will defer the matter till spring, 
when I may chance to see you at Boston before you set off, as I intend 
to be there by the first of April. 

The States have been very thinly represented during the Summer and 
fall tho' enough have been here to do some things which I believe you 
will judge not very honorable or advantageous to the U. S. and here I 
should be glad to be particular if the conveyance of Letters was not so 
very precarious, whither Mr. A will take a part in the Commission I 
am not informed but fear he will not, as he is not very fond of leading 
strings, a Letter lately receivd from Mr. J gives us his Sentiments on 
the Subject which appear to me rational and independant. I presume that 
you have seen Genl. Ward since he returned, and must know what I 
allude to. 

Every thing which relates to the old money lies dormient. the Superin- 
tendant (on whom much depends in this case) says that he shall insist 
on the plan of the i8th march, and when the several States have sunk 
their Quotas of the old money nominally, he shall promote a plan for 
doing Justice to those States who were early in doing their duty. And 
tho' I think him to be honest in his intentions, yet it appears to me very 
uncertain whither he will Affect his purposes. 

You have doubtless been informed that Genl. Lincoln has accepted the 
Office of Secretary at War. Congress passed a Resolution yesterday 
which put a piece of Business into his hands that will not, I believe, be 
very agreeable to him. The purport of the Resolution is that the Com- 
mander in Chief shall signify to the Secretary at War from time to time 
the number of Genl. officers which he Judges necessary to be in and 
take the field, and the Secretary shall issue his orders to such as he thinks 
proper, the remainder to be considered as retiring on half pay. Subject 
however to be called into service when occasion requires, how this 
measure will suit the Genl. Officers is uncertain, tho' I am told there will 
be no great difficulty about the matter. 

I wish you would be so kind as to inform me when you expect to be 
here, and whether Mr. Adams or either of our Brethren is coming on soon.* 

I am Sir with great esteem your most obedt. Hum. Servt, 

Geo. Partridge. 

P. S. be so good as to make my best Comp'ts to your Brethren and 
my friend Colo. Orne and family. 

[418] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Townsend-Gerry Papers, from the collection of Mrs. Annette 
Townsend Phillips, a descendant of Elbridge Gerry. 

2 Meanwhile Samuel Osgood, then in attendance, was finding it difficult to maintain 
himself for lack of funds. In a letter to Henry Gardner Jan. 30 he mentioned drawing 
certain drafts to meet his needs, then added, "All I wish for whilst here is a decent Sup- 
port" (Mass. Arch.. CCIV. 27). Cj. no. 534, post. 



284 Continental Congress 

419. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada. Deer. 25, 1781. 
Dear Sir, 

Whishing you a merry Christmass etc. etc. 

These are to acknowledge recipt of your favour of the lOth instant 
with the papers enclosed. I shall lay them before Congress: And inform 
you of the success they meet with.' If nothing extraordinary should 
happen to prevent I intend to set out for home three weeks from this day. 



420. Oliver Wolcott to Andrew Adams/ 

Philadelp'a 2 Jan'ry 1782. 
Sir, 

I have been favoured with your Letter of the 22d Novr. and 10 Deer, 
which I am happy to Acknowledge, I suppose that you have reed, one 
from me since I left Home. 

I can say no more with Regard to the Letters of Mr. Deane, which 
you desire to be informed of than that they are here generally beleived 
to be genuine.^ 

As to the Matter of Impost, which you also mention; I think that a 
National Revenue is Necessary, my Reasons for the opinion in Regard 
to the Impost are given in the Report of a Committee which I suppose 
will be considered the next Session of Assembly. That any Money granted 
may be misapplied is most certain, And if this Principle ought to govern 
no money ought ever to be granted for any publick use. At present so 
farr as I can judge there is a great Reduction of expenee, by the Conduct 
of the Super intendant of Finance, in the Expenditure of such money as 
he is possessed of. The single Article of furnishing the Stationary Troops 
by Contract, has reduced the Expenee of Rations doub[t]less one half. 

The Acts of Congress reducing the Number of the General Staff, 
except what are Necessary for Actual Service, and reducing all officers 
commanding several Cores not in the Line of any State, while it releives 
them from a Circumstance which can afford no Pleasure, in holding an 

[419]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., VI. 68. 

2 A letter from President Weare to Livermore Dec. 10 is in A^. H. State Papers, 
X. 470 ; a letter of the same date to the President of Congress, with regard to representa- 
tion (ibid., X. 574), was laid before Congress probably Dec. 26 (see the Journals, 
p. il84n.). 

Madison, in a letter to Pendleton Dec. 25 (Writings, I. 166), remarks: "It gives 
me great pleasure to hear of the honorable acquittal of Mr. Jefferson. I know his abilities, 
and I think I know his fidelity and zeal for his Country so well, that I am persuaded it was 
a just one. We are impatient to know whether he will undertake the new service to which 
he is called." See Pendleton to Madison Dec. 31, Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, second 
ser., XIX. izi4. Although Jefferson had declined the peace mission, Madison had never- 
theless endeavored to persuade him to reconsider his decision and accept. See nos. 263, 301, 
ante. 

[420] 1 Library of Congress, Stauffer-Morgan Collection of Signers of the Declaration 
of Independence. 

2 See no. 381, ante, no. 430, post. 



January, 1/82 286 

Office, not accompanied with any proper Command, in which they must 
find that there Services are not wanted, will make a considerable saving 
of Expense.^ 

Congress have incorporated the Society for establishing a Bank. Their 
first Subscription for it is already compleated. Much utility I hope will 
be derived from it, But without a Revenue such immediate advantages 
to the Publick cannot be obtained from it as might otherwise be expected. 
But the Principles upon which Banks are established is so little understood 
that I suppose many will object against it.* 

We have no News from Genl. Greene so late as that published under 
the N London Head. We may dayly expect to hear from him. 

I am very sorry that Vermont has not complyed with the Proposal of 
Congress. N York and N Hamshire are remonstrating against them. 
There recent Claims are I beleive universally rebrobated [sicl and their 
persisting to make them will probably involve them in much Dificulty.'' 



421. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 7th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We have been honored with your Excellencys letters of the i8th and 
22nd Ulto. Previous to the receipt of your letter of the 22nd we had 
received a letter from his honor the Deputy Governor, inclosing the 
Resolution of the General Assembly, directing us to confer with the 
Superintendant of Finance, on the Subject matters therein contained. 
That no time might be lost, we communicated the contents to the Finan- 
cier. " He observed that he was sensible of the force of the arguments 
contained in the Resolution: but he thought too much was asked for. 
That whatever he did in this case must be general to all the states, and 
that it was his wish, to give them every assistance that was necessary, 
to enable them to comply with the Requisitions of Congress, and that 
nothing that he could do for that purpose, consistant with the duties of 
his Office should be wanting. He was too much ingaged to take up the 
business, so as to enable us to forward an answer by this Post, but 
promised that as soon as he could attend he would give us notice." ^ 

We are fully impressed with the force of your arguments, respecting 
the inability of the Inhabitants of the State, to pay their quota of the Tax 
in specie, that is required by Congress for the present year, and shall 
enforce them at the conferrence with the Superintendant, and you may 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 31, 1781, and no. 417, ante. 

* See the Journals, Dec. 31, 1781. 

■* See no. 414, ante, no. 424, post. 
[421]! R. I. Archives, Letters to the Governor, 1781-1782 (signed by Ellery and 
Cornell). 

2 Although this passage appears in quotation marks in the original, it is not to be 
understood as a direct quotation. 



286 Continental Congress 

be asured that nothing that is in [our] power will be omited, that shall ap- 
pear necessary to obtain the request of the Hon'le the General Assembly. 
As soon as the business is finished we will give you the earliest information. 

422. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphi.\ Jany 7th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellencys Letter with the papers therewith Inclosed Respe [cit- 
ing the Conduct of the people on the Grants, I laid before Congress, who 
Refered them to a Committee; and that Committee have this Day Re- 
ported; A Copy of which Report is herewith Inclosed. Next Thursday 
is Assigned for taking it up, And I am Sorry to Say, that there appears 
in Congress (however unjust with Respect to our State, or however 
Impolitick it may be With Respect to the United States) too Great a 
Majority in favour of it, But as it is one of those matters which Requires 
the Consent of Nine States before it Can pass, I think they will not be 
able to Carry it this time. And Altho' I may prevent this passing, yet 
I am very doubtful whether I shall be able to procure from Congress 
any thing that will be of much use to us, But I Shall do my Endeavour 
and I have the Assistance of Some able friends who are heartily Interested 
in this Business. 

Whatever Congress may Determine on with Respect to this or any 
other Matter that Relates particularly to our State I Shall Give you the 
Earliest Information." 

423. Oliver Wolcott to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Private. Philadelphia, 8th Jan'ry, 1782. 

Sir, 

The most important matters which have passed in Congress since my 
last letter to your Excellency, of the 19th ultimo, has been an ordinance 
incorporating the Society for establishing a National Bank. This had 
been some time ago promised them, and as their first subscription was 
compleated, it was tho't proper to comply with their application.^ .... 

A stop for the present is put to any exchange of prisoners. The enemy 
have made it a preliminary that Ld. Cornwallis (who it is supposed has 
gone for England) shall in the first instance be exchanged. This has not 
been agreed to, as an exchange might otherwise have been properly made. 
What has induced S'r Harry Clinton to make this an absolute condition 

[422]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4276. 

2 Clinton wrote two letters to the delegates Dec. 24, one to be read in Congress, 
the other confidential (Clinton Papers, VIL 623, 624), The first was read in Congress 
Dec. 31, or thereabouts (see the Journals, p. iigon.), but the Journals do not record its 
reference to a committee, or that committee's report Jan. 7. See however the Journals. 
Jan. 25, 28, and nos. 424, 427, 428, 434, post; see also nos. 405, 414, 416, avfe. 
[423] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IIL 307. 
2 See the Journals, Dec. 31, 1781. 



January, 1782 287 

is a matter of conjecture only. Our f>eople in captivity at the southward 
will suffer most by this delay, but the sanguinary conduct of Ld. Corn- 
wallis in those countries induced the gentlemen belonging there not to 
desire the exchange of their people upon such terms. Perhaps if his 
Lordship could be considered as divested of a disposition to commit the 
most wanton cruelty, no solid objection could lye against his exchange, 
on account of his military abilities.^ .... 

P. S. The Superintendant of the Finances has reported a plan for the 
liquidating of the accounts of the States with the U. States, and proposed 
a mode by a special convention of the several States, by special appoint- 
ment of members by their legislatures, to ascertain the ratio of each State 
of the unfunded debt — the accounts due from the U. States to each, to be 
liquidated by a commissioner sent to each State to be approved by the 
State to whom sent. This report will probably be considered in a few 
days.* 

The affairs of Vermont have called the attention of Congress. Nothing 
yet has been done in this affair. Perhaps the former Act of Congress 
admitting them by implication as an independent State will be recognized 
and made explicit, and a time limited for their complyance, which if not 
agreed to by them effectually steps may be taken to give peace to the 
northern frontiers. ** 

424. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany. 8th 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Nothing material has occurred since my last. Congress are come 
to no determination concerning Vermont. They are much divided in 
opinion about the Steps that ought to be taken. However the Committee 
on that subject have at last reported. The substance of the report is 
adapted to carry into execution the Resolution of the 20th of August 
lastj by giving Vermont an opportunity to revise their doings in Octo 
and renouncing their late acquired jurisdiction on the east of the river, 
etc. 'Tis proposed to send a commissioner from Congress to treat with 
them and to explain matters : ^ . . . . 

3 See nos. 365, 402, ante, the Journals, Feb. 18, 23, and Washington to the President 
of Congress Feb. 18, 20 {Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 443, 449, ed. Sparks, VIII. 239. 243), 
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, one of the prisoners taken at Charleston and then in 
Philadelphia on parole, wrote to the South Carolina delegates Jan. 5 with regard to the 
action of Congress as it aflfected his own exchange and complaining of the " obscure manner 
of keeping your Journals " {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 55). On Sept. 5, 1781, 
Pinckney had complained of a proposed exchange, " immediately and out of his turn ", 
of a younger colonel than himself. See the Journals, Sept. 5, 24, 1781. 

* See nos. 416, 417, ante, also th^ J mirnals , Jan. 9 (including the note at pp. 14-17), 
II, 16, Feb. 7, 20. The plan had its origin in the reference, Nov. 23, of a memorial of the 
state of New Jersey to the superintendent of finance. Cj. nos. 430, 438 (note 3), post. 

5 See no. 422, ante, no. 430, post. 
[424]! A/". H. State Papers, X. 478. 

2 See no. 422, note 2, ante. Livermore wrote briefly to Weare Jan. i to say : 
" Nothing material has turned up here since my last The Vermonters are very 



288 Continental Congress 

425. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 8, 1782. 

Sir, 

Your excellency's favor of the 28th Ulto. not having acknowledged 
the receipt of our dispatches by Capt. Irish, we shall repeat them, unless 
the next post should announce his arrival." 

We cannot but lament the distressing and degrading situation, in which 
we are placed, from the scantiness and uncertainty of our supplies, in 
which our own private credit can avail us nothing, and prices are im- 
moderate and ruinous. We beg the attention of the executive to this point, 
important to ourselves, and perhaps important to our country.' .... 

Being disposed to advance, on every proper occasion, the views of our 
ally, and to demonstrate to Great Britain, how practicable it is to renounce 
her manufactures and produce, we rendered every aid in our power to 
the resolution, which the president has sent on, recommending more ef- 
fectual provision against the introduction of British merchandizes. As 
these considerations were the grounds of the resolution, we cannot doubt, 
that our legislature will execute the recommendation. It will be re- 
membered, that the late ordinance, respecting captures, which has been 
forwarded to the judges of the court of admiralty thro' your excellency, 
relates to this species of commodities, when found on water only.* 

The Superintendant of finance is instructed to transmit to the several 
states copies of the act, incorporating the national bank. He probably 
will be explicit on the benefits to be expected from such an institution. 
To him we shall consign this part of the subject. 

But some scruples having been entertained as to the authority of 
congress to grant a charter of incorporation, we cannot forbear to mention 
the predicament, in which this body stood. 

When the establishment of a bank was proposed to congress on the 
26th day of May last, its utility was immediately seen. They accordingly 
approved the plan, and promised to support it in the most effectual manner. 
Among other things, they stipulated to pass an act of incorporation; altho' 
objections were suggested against such an engagement. After a vote to 
this effect, subscriptions were made upon the expectation of a charter 
from congress, the president and directors chosen, and we were required 

turbulent about Hudson's River and a strong suspicion of their being in League with the 
British — ^you will hear more in my next, if bro't to any head in Congress " ( Vt. Hist. 
Soc, Collections, H, 227; N. H. State Papers, X. 461). Weare's reply Jan. 29 to the 
letters of Jan. i and 8 is ibid., X. 479. 

[425]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Randolph, Madison, and Jones) ; 
Cat. Va. State Papers, III. 11. 

2 Governor Harrison's letter of Dec. 28 is not found in Official Letters, III. In a 
letter to the delegates Jan. 11 {ibid., p. 126) Governor Harrison acknowledged receipt of 
the delegates' letter of Jan. i {Cal. Va. State Papers, III. i) and remarked, "the packet 
by Captain Irish did not get to hand time enough for the Assembly which rose on the 
fifth ". See no. 429, post. 

8 The omitted passage remarks upon the memorial of Daniel Murray which is 
enclosed {Cal. Va. State Papers, II. 675, dated Dec. 29, 1781). 

* See the Journals, Jan. 2, and no. 426, note 4, post. 



January, 1782 289 

to fulfill our contract. The same doubts upon congressional power were 
again urged ; but nothing decisive was done, until a committee, appointed 
to confer with the bank, reported the result of the conference. They in- 
formed congress, that they had communicated to the bank the difficulties, 
which occurred in granting a charter; but that they were answered, that 
the promise of a preceding congress was binding on a subsequent one; 
that the subscribers would be free to withdraw their subscriptions, unless 
a charter should pass from congress, and that tedious and expensive 
arrangements had been made for commencing the operations of the bank. 
The financier added, that a delay in these operations would injure him 
in his attempt towards a payment to the army. Pressed as they were by 
these representations, congress did incorporate the bank; some of those, 
who voted in the affirmative thinking themselves obliged by the engage- 
ment in may, others contending for a constitutional power in these cases, 
and others assenting to it from absolute necessity. The resolution sub- 
joined to the act will therefore, we hope, be complied with by the several 
legislatures.' 

426. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.* 

Philada. Jany. 8th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I have before me your favor of the 31st ulto. I regret much the refusal 
of Mr. J. to become a member of the Virga. delegation, not only as it 
deprives his country of that particular service, but as I fear it proceeds 
from a fixed disinclination to all public employments.^ 

Yesterday was opened, for the first time, the bank instituted under the 
auspices of Congress, Its principal founder is Mr, R. M, who has certain 
prerogatives wth respect to it in his quality of super intendant of finance. 
It is pretty analogous in its principles to the bank of England. The stock 
subscribed is 400,000 dollars. When the scheme was originally proposed 
to Congress for their approbation and patronage, a promise was given 
that as soon as it was ripe for operation the company s'd be incorporated. 
A few days ago the fulfilment of the promise was claimed. The competency 
of Congress to such an act had been called in question in the first instance, 
but the subject not lying in so near and distinct a view, the objections 
did not prevail. On the last occasion, the general opinion though with 
some exceptions was that the Confederation gave no such power and that 
the exercise of it would not bear the test of a forensic disquisition and 
consequently would not avail the Institution. The bank however, suppos- 
ing that such a sanction from Congress wd at least give it a dignity and 
preeminence in the public opinion, urged the engagement of Congress ; 
that on this engagement the subscriptions had been made; and that a 
disappointment would leave the subscribers free to withdraw their names. 

5 See no. 426, post. 
[426] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac, 1081 ; Writings, I, 167; Papers, I, 104, 

2 In his letter of Dec. 31 (Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, second sen, XIX. 144) 
Pendleton says, " Mr, Jefferson, I am told, declines coming to Congress, nor do I learn 
that they purpose choosing another in his room ". 



290 Continental Congress 

These considerations were reinforced by the Superintend'! of finance, 
who relyed on this institution as a great auxiliary to his department, 
and in particular expected aid from it in a payment he is exerting himself 
to make to the army. The immediate interposition of Congress was 
rendered the more essential too by the sudden adjournment of the As- 
sembly of this State, to whom the bank might have been referred for the 
desired incorporation, which it was the opinion of many would have 
given them a sufficient legal existence in every State. You will conceive 
the dilemma in which these circumstances placed the members who felt 
on one side the importance of the institution, and on the other a want 
of power and an aversion to assume it. Some thing like a middle way 
finally produced an acquiescing rather than an affirmative vote. A charter 
of incorporation was granted, with a recommendation to the States to 
give it all the necessary validity within their respective jurisdictions. 
As this is a tacit admission of a defect of power I hope it will be an 
antidote against the poisonous tendency of precedents of usurpation.^ 

In the ordinance lately passed for regulating captures which I presume 
you have seen, a clause was inserted exposing to capture all merchandizes 
produced in G. B. if coming into these States, and within three leagues 
of the coast, although the property of a neutral nation. Congress have 
now recommended to the States to subject them to seizure during the war, 
if found on land within their respective limits. These measures had become 
necessary to check an evil which was every day increasing, and which 
both enabled and encouraged G. Britain to persevere in the war, at the 
same time that it mortifyed our ally with daily seeing the fruits of his 
generosity to us remitted in payment to the rival of his nation and the 
enemy of both.* .... 

3 The plan of a national bank, proposed by the superintendent of finance in a letter 
of May 17, 1 781, was read in Congress May 21 and approved May 26. The plan as out- 
lined by Morris is found in a foot-note to the Journals under the latter date. The ordinance 
inqorporating the bank was adopted Dec. 31. Under this date in the Journals may also be 
found a preamble to the ordinance which appears to have been proposed by Edmund 
Randolph, setting forth more unreservedly than is the case in the preamble actually 
adopted the considerations actuating Congress in adopting the bank. Morris's plan, 
together with some observations upon it, is also found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 
565. See also sundry letters of Morris, ibid., IV. 421, 439, 494, 513, 562, 568, 574, 578, 581, 
V. 94. An extract from his Diary relative to the opening of the bank is ibid., V. 85. 
Cj. no. 425, ante, no. 447, post. 

•* An ordinance respecting captures on water was adopted Dec. 4, 1781, an amend- 
ing ordinance Jan. 8, 1782, and a further amending ordinance Feb. 26. For proceedings on 
the original ordinance see the Journals, July 18, Aug. 14, 28, 30, Sept. 13, 14, 17, 21, Nov. 8, 
13, 26, 30, Dec. 4, 1781. For proceedings on the amending ordinances see the Journals, 
Jan. 2, 3, 7, 8, Feb. 25, 26, 1782. On Dec. 15, 1781 {Journals, p. ii72n.), a motion on the 
subject by Richard Law was referred to a committee, and this committee made a report 
Jan. 2, although in recording the presentation of this report the Journals refer to the 
motion as made by " Mr. J [oseph] Jones ". The amendment of Feb. 26, reported by a 
committee Feb. 25, appears to have had its origin in a memorial of merchants and traders 
of Philadelphia presented Feb. 12 (see the Journals, p. 73 n.). 

In his reply to this letter, Jan. 28 (Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, second ser., XIX. 145), 
Pendleton discussed at some length the questions pertaining to the bank (see no. 447, post)', 
and, touching this latter topic in Madison's letter, remarked : " I hope the states will com- 
ply with the recommendation respecting the forfeiture of British goods, since 'tis a most 
ungrateful and impolitic abuse of the kindness of our allies to throw the money they so 
generously supply us with, into the hands of their and our enemy, to the neglect of their 



January, ijS? 291 

427. Benjamin Hawkins to Abner Nash.* 

Dear Sir, 

.... The amazing efforts of the British last campaign, and the events 
therefrom, are strong and evident proofs that she cannot prosecute the 
war with any possible prosjject of success. The fleets of ... . [illegible^ 
are Superior and consequently any distant operations must be very un- 
certain and destructive 

The People of Vermont are like to be troublesome to us. they would 
not acceed to the propositions made to them in August last, but continued 
to encroach on the Territory of New York and New Hampshire, the 
consequences were that the citizens of these States armed immediately, 
and they were like to have had an action, which was in some measure 
prevented by some of our generals. 

Congress have been rather in attentive to the repeated remonstrances 
of New York and New Hampshire, and some interested members thereof 
are said to have encouraged the people of Vermont in persevering, in the 
support of their Claims. We now have this business before us and I fear 
we have too few States in Congress to bring it to a speedy determination.* 

Philadelphia, January 9th, 1782. 

428. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).* 

Philadelphia Jan: 15th, 1782. 
Sir, 

The Report, a Copy of which I transmitted to your Excellency has been 
largely debated But it was not brought to a Question. I do Expect it will 
be Resumed again this Day, and unless there Comes in Some other 
members, that were not present when it was last under Consideration 
(which I fear may happen) I think they will not be able to Carry it, tho' 
I am Clear that there is a Great Majority in Congress for that Report, 
or Something that is Similar, the Conduct of those people. Connecting 
themselves With the Enemy in Canada, does not appear to affect those 
who are for Supporting them in their Revolt, they Endeavour to make 
light of it as a matter of no Consequence and act accordingly. I Shall 
take the first oppertunity to Advise your Excellency of what Ever Con- 
gress may Determine on the Subject," 

P. S. I am amazed that Genl. Scott does not come on. 

trade. Wisely and prophetically did honest General Gadsden say to Congress in 1774, 
' Take care or your liberties will be traded away '." 

For some account of the development of the Court of Appeals, with which the proceed- 
ings respecting captures on water were intimately associated, see vol. V., no. 33, note 2, and 
no. 456, post. 

[427]! N. C. Hist. Comm.; A^. C. State Recs., XVI. 478. 
2 See nos. 422, 424, ante. 

[428] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4290. 

2 There is no record in the Journals of a debate on the Vermont question prior 
to Jan. 25. See nos. 422, ante, 431, 434, 436, post. 



292 Continental Congress 

429. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philada., Jany. 15th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The late proceedings within the walls of Congress in conse- 
(juence of the territorial cessions produced by their recommendations to 
the States claiming the Western Country were many weeks ago trans- 
mitted for the Legislature by a Capt. Irish. By the same conveyance I 
wrote to you on the subject. We have the mortification to find by our 
latest letters from Richmond that this gentleman had not at the date of 
them appeared there.^ As it is uncertain whether that information may 
not have totally miscarried it will be proper to repeat to you that the 
States besides Virga. from which the cessions came were Connecticut 
and N. York. The cession of the former consisted of all her claim west 
of N. York as far as the Mississippi. That of the latter of all her claims 
beyond a certain western limit drawn on the occasion. The cession of 
Con't extended to the soil only expressly reserving the jurisdiction. That 
of N. Y. made no reservation. These cessions with that of Virga. and 
sundry memorials from the Ind'a and other land companies were referred 
to a committee composed of a Member from N. H. R. I. N. J. Pa. and 
Maryld. The ingredients of this composition prepared us for the com- 
plexion of their proceedings. Their first step was to investigate and 
discuss the respective titles of the States to the territory ceded. As this 
was directly in the face of the recommendation of Congress which pro- 
fessed to bury all such discussions and might prejudge future controversies 
between individual members of the Union, we refused to exhibit any 
evidence in favor of the title of Va. and endeavoured though in vain to 
prevail on Congress to interdict the Committee from proceeding in the 
inquiry. The next step of the Committee was still more obnoxious. They 
went fully into a hearing of the memorialists through their Agent; and 
received all the evidence adduced in support of their pretensions. On this 
occasion we renewed our remonstrances to the Committee and our com- 
plaints to Congress, but with as little effect as on the first occasion. The 
Upshot of the whole was a report to Congress rejecting the Cessions of 
Con't and Virga. and accepting that of N. Y. ; disallowing also the claims 
of the Companies N. W. of the Ohio but justifying that of the Ind'a 
Comp'y. The report seems to distrust the doctrine hitherto maintained, 
of territorial rights being incident to the U. S. Collectively which are not 
comprehended within any individual States ; substituting the expedient of 

Floyd had doubtless received before this time Qinton's letter of Dec. 8 transmitting reso- 
lutions of the New York legislature relative to Colonel Van Schaick (Clinton Papers, VII. 
567), for those resolutions were laid before Congress Jan. 10 (Journals, p. 34 n.). See 
no. 304, ante, nos. 434, 457, 470, post. 

[429P Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 170; Papers, I. 106. 
2 See nos. 384, 387, ante. In a letter of Jan. 15 (Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 20) 
the delegates state that, having heard nothing of the arrival of Captain Irish with the 
despatches, they will repeat them in the mail of the following week. " We have reason to 
believe ", they remark, " that his delay on the road has been occasioned by sickness." 
Harrison's letter of Jan, 11 (Official Letters, III. 126) indicates that the despatches had 
been received. See also his letters of Feb. 2 and 9 (ibid., pp. 142, 147). 



January, 1782 293 

recognizing the title of N. Y. stretching it over the whole country claimed 
by the other ceding States, and then accepting a transfer of it to the 
U. S. In this state the business now rests, the report having never been 
taken into consideration nor do we wish it should, till it shall have under- 
gone the consideration of Virga.* .... 

430. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelpa, 2 1 St Jan'ry, 1782. 
Sir, 

We have been honoured with your Excellency's letter of the first 
instant,^ and would observe with regard to the mode of settling the publick 
accounts, that the subject upon a report has been recommitted, and which 
has not yet been again reported upon. One great dificulty which attends 
this business is, by what rate the certificates given for the old money 
shall be ascertained. A uniform rule to operate thro the States, when it 
is well known that the exchange has been so extremely different, would 
be apparently unjust, and wheither the schales adopted by the particular 
States, in case they have been extended to the termination of the old 
currency, would in all cases be an equitable one, is not altogether clear. 
But we apprehend that, when the principles upon which the accounts of 
the several States against the United States shall be ascertained, one or 
more commissioners will be appointed for each State to liquidate those 
accounts. This measure not only appears to us to be the most proper 
one, but, so farr as we can judge by the observations made upon this 
subject, will probably be the opinion of Congress. Another matter has 
been referred to the same Committee, to adopt a mode by which the 
unfunded debts of the United States shall be apportioned out to the 
several States. By the funded debt is meant all foreign debts, loan office 
certificates, and debts liquidated and entered on the books of the Treasurer. 
Wheither this last measure will be agreed to is uncertain, perhaps it will 
be tho't that the relative value of the States, being so very precarious by 
the operations of the war, it would be too early a period to ascertain the 
respective quotas.' .... 

We also judge it proper to observe to your Excellency, that Mr. Robert 
Morrice, having a few days ago reed, a letter from Mr. Silas Deane, 
acknowledging that he had wrote him a letter of the lot of June last. 

which has been printed, wherein Mr. Deane said The day after 

this Mr. Morrice sent two letters of Mr. Deane"s to Congress, the one 
directed to his brother Barnabas, the other to Mr. Thomas Mumford; 
these letters Mr. Morrice reed, of a person who took them of Mr. Deane 

3 Madison further comments on " the industry and perseverance with which the 
territorial rights of Virginia are persecuted ". The question of the cessions was taken up 
again in Congress Apr. 16. See the Journals, Apr. 16, 18, May i, 6, and no. 480, post. 
[430] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, III. 309 (signed by Wolcott and Law). 

2 Governor Trumbull's letter is in Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, HI. 126. 

3 The plan of settlement was adopted Feb. 20. See no. 423, ante, nos. 438 (note 3), 
446, 465, post. The omitted passage relates to a conference with the superintendent of 
finance on the subject. 



294 Continental Congress 

in France, with a very particular charge to destroy them in case he should 
find himself in danger of being taken by the enemy. But upon his arrival, 
finding that Mr. Deane's political character lay under a criminal imputa- 
tion, he judged it proper to deliver them to Mr. Morrice. Congress 
directed the President to break the seals and if upon inspection the letters 
were of a private nature to send them forward, otherwise to communicate 
them. The letters were communicated and thereupon were ordered to be 
retained by the Secretary of Foreign Aflfairs, and such communications 
made of them as might most eflFectually obviate the mischeif which it 
was supposed Mr. Deane might be inclined to do the United States. I'pon 
this measure's being agreed to, and which we think was a proper one, 
we supported a motion that the Secretary of Foreign Affairs should be 
directed to send copys of those letters with the prooffs of their authenticity 
to your Excellency. Our veiw in this was that as there was not only 
matters in those letters which respected the particular interests of the 
gentlemen to whom they were directed, and who ought therefore to be 
acquainted with them, but also as Mr. Deane belonged to the State and 
had fallen under suspicions of a most criminal nature, it was proper 
that the State should be able to judge of the evidence to justify an imputa- 
tion of this kind. We shall observe nothing more upon this disagreable 
subject than that the determinations of Congress in regard to those letters 
were made without either passion or any dissension.* 

We think it not improper to mention to your Excellency an aflFair which, 
altho it does not immediately respect the State, yet as some seasonable 
advice to the people of Vermont to attend to a conduct consistent with 
their own well fare and the publick peace, instead of pursuing measures 
which immediately lead to the disturbance of both, might have a happy 
effect, we beg leave to observe that the non complyance of these people 
with the Act of Congress eventually acknowledging them as an inde- 
pendent State, was as unexpected to Congress as the reasons which they 
gave for their refusal was unsatisfactory. These people consider them- 
selves under an obligation, as they say, to have an adjudication of the 
claims of the people with whom they have lately connected themselves. 
But they would have done well to have considered that Congress have 
explicitly guaranteed these recent claims to N. Hamshire and N. York; 
and that if a people may as by right claim an exemption from a jurisdic- 
tion under which they have been long settled, till such claims can be 
adjudicated, it will at any time be in the power of a few factious people 
to produce the utmost confusion and dismemberment in those States. 

* See no. 381, note 4, ante, the Journals, Jan. 17, and no. 432, post. The letter from 
Deane to Robert Morris June 10 (printed in the Royal Gazette Oct. 27, 1781) is in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 403; that to Thomas Mumford, Sept. 24, 
is ibid., p. 468 ; that to Barnabas Deane Sept. 26 is ibid., p. 476. These last two letters were 
brought by William Marshall. See Livingston to the President of Congress Jan. 18, 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 117. For letters of Livingston written in compliance with 
the instructions of Congress see ibid., pp. 122, 123, 125, 144; cj. Franklin to Jay Jan. 19, 
to Livingston Mar. 4, to Morris Mar. 30, ibid., pp. 119, 214, 278. See also Livingston to 
Trumbull Jan. 22, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IH. 313. Concerning a letter 
from Deane to Trumbull Oct. 21, 1781 {ibid., p. 292), see ibid., p. 349, and nos. 522, 529, 
post. 



January, 1782 295 

Congress have had it in contemplation to recognise their former act in 
their favour, and to declare that if the people of this district shall within 
two months accede to the confederation upon the terms proposed, that 
then they shall upon their signing the confederation be admitted into 
the Union, and that in case they shall refuse that they shall be reduced 
under one or more of the confederate States. Wheither this measure as 
proixjsed will be adopted is uncertain. But doubtless measures to put 
matters upon a different footing in the northern frontier will be judged 
necessary. It appears very strange that this people will not now accept 
of what they have for a long time been endeavouring to obtain. This 
perseverance in a mode of conduct which is considered as so very im- 
proper may, unless immediately rectified, subject them to difficuhies 
which they do not seem in the least to apprehend.'^ We have no news 
of any importance to communicate to your Excellency. 

P. S. Your Excellency's letter incloseing that of Mr. Bills' we im- 
mediately on receipt thereof lay'd before Congress, who referrd the same 
to Com'tee appointed to take up that subject and to confer with General 
Washington thereon, who have the same now under consideration and as 
soon as they shall report thereon will acquaint you therewith.' 

431. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Jany. 22d, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress are much occupied and perlexed at present with the 
case of Vermont. The pretensions of that settlement to the character of 
an independ't State, with the grounds on which they are made and the 
countenance given them by Congress are I presume pretty well known to 
you. It has long been contended that an explicit acknowledgment of that 
Character and an admission of them into the federal Union was an act 
both of Justice and policy. The discover}^ made through several channels 
and particularly the intercepted letters of Ld. G. Germaine added such 
force to the latter of these considerations, that in the course of last summer 
]>reliminary overtures were made on the part of Congress for taking them 
into the confederation, containing as one condition on the part of Vermont 
that they shd. contract their claims within the bounds to which they were 
originally confined, and guaranteing to N. Y. and N. H, all the territory 
without those bounds to which their encroachments had been extended. 
Instead of complying with this condition they have gone on in their 
encroachments both on the N. Y. and N. H. sides and there is at this 
moment every symptom of approaching hostility with each of them. In 
this delicate crisis the interposition of Congress is again called for, and 
indeed seems to be indispensable; but whether in the way of military 
coercion, or a renewal of former overtures, or by making the first a con- 

^ See no. 422, note 2, ante, nos. 431, 434, post. 

* Trumbull's letter enclosing a letter from Capt. Jabez Bill was dated Jan. i and 
was read in Congress Jan. 11. 

[431 ]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 173; Papers, I. 109. 



296 Continental Congress 

dition of a refusal of the last, is not so unanimously decided. Indeed with 
several members and I may say States in Congress a want of {>ower either 
to decide on their independence or to open the door of the confederacy 
to them is utterly disclaimed, besides which the danger of the precedent, 
and the preponderancy it wd. give to the Eastern scale deserve serious 
consideration. These reasons nevertheless can only prevail when the 
alternative contains fewer evils. It is very unhappy that such plausible 
pretexts if not necessary occasions of assuming power should occur. 
Nothing is more distressing to those who have a due respect for the 
constitutional modifications of power than to be obliged to decide on 
them.=^ .... 

[P. S,] We have fresh and indubitable confirmation of the apostacy 
of Deane from the independence of his country. 

432. Nicholas Eveleigh to John Mathews.^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 22, 1782. 
. . . .^ Mr. Deane has fully proved himself to be a traytor to his 
Country, two letters of his one to his Brother, the other to another person 
in Connecticut have lately fallen into our hands, from these there is no 
reason to doubt that the letters before printed under his signature were 
genuine, the ministry of Great Britain have certainly f [ound] his price 
and given it him. he has been [cautious ?] in his correspondence and has 
taken care to make it very general in order that the poison may be more 
generally diffused and be the more generally mischievous, proper means 
will be taken respecting him.^ .... 

433. Arthur Middleton to Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.- 

Philadelphia January 26th, 1782. 
Dear Sir,^ 

I hear you left Stanton yesterday and proceeded on your Journey south- 
ward. I fear you will have had many a disagreeable hour before you 
receive this. I find the regulation last made with regard to Promotions 
goes farther than I imagin'd when I mentioned it to you. It dissolves the 
Classes of States by districts, which was injurious to some of those who 
were linked together like the living and the dead in the Poet. The Two 

2 See nos. 422, 427, 428, ante, 434, 436, post. With regard to the intercepted letter of 
Germain see no. 200, ayite. 

[432]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Eveleigh. 

2 The first part of this letter, taken in connection with a letter from Aedanus Burke 
to Arthur Middleton Jan. 25, and one from Edward Rutledge to Middleton Jan. 28 {S. C. 
Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVL 190, 211), suggests that it was addressed to John Mathews, 
who had recently left for South Carolina. Middleton's reply to Burke, Apr. 7, is ibid., 
XXVn. 28. 

8 See no. 430, ante. 
[433 ]i S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVIL 28. 

2 Although this letter as printed bears no address, it was evidently to Charles 
Cotesworth Pinckney, who had recently been in Philadelphia, a prisoner of war on parole 
(sec no. 423, note 3, ante). 



January, 1782 297 

parts were combined that the one might carry through the other, tho' 
the whole stroke was intended meerly to clear the way for a favorite 
promotion: it has not been since pushed but we expect it daily. V.^ is 
still suh judice; several Attempts have been made to carry the point of 
admission to the Union, but a few were obdurate: she will probably at 
least be kept out for a Time, if not forever, and punish'd in the end for 
her Iniquities 

434. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, Jan. 31st, 1782. 
Sir, 

I reed, by Mr. Edgar - your Excellency's letter with the affidavits 
accompanying it which I immediately laid before Congress, who com- 
mitted them; and a copy of the report of the Committee, I did myself 
the honor to enclose to your Excellency sometime since ; I hope it is come 
to hand before now. Congress after debating that report for 2 or 3 days, 
it was recommitted; the next report (not materially different from the 
first) was several days debated and committed again; about this time 
Mr. Seth Smith arrived, by whom I had the honor of receiving your 
Excellency's letter of the 21st instant. 

Smith, by way of memorial ^ enclosing a kind of affidavit gave Con- 
gress information, which with some other that was at the same time 
received from another quarter, appeared to alarm some of our members 
who before that affected to disbelieve that they, the Vermontiers, had 
formed any connexion with the enemy. But this put it beyond a doubt. 

Upon which Congress committed the Report as it then stood, with the 
concurrent Resolves of our Legislature on that subject : the information 
then reed, with all other papers that related to that business to a Com'ttee 
of one member from each State : that Committee has had it under con- 
sideration, and I was in hopes that yesterday or this day it would have 
determined on the principle (for which reason I detained Smith two days) 
but something happening which has prevented the Committee from doing 
it, I have thought proper not to detain him any longer.* 

Congress appear to be sensible of the necessity of coming to some 
positive determination with respect to the business, but what they will 
agree to finally I cannot tell. 

As nigh as I can judge, the States stand thus; N. H. would have them 
independent, but would rather they were not, if those on the East Side 

3 Vermont. See nos. 422, 427, 428, 431. ante. 
[434] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 205. 

2 John Edgar. See the Jownals, Jan. 29, Apr. 20. He was the bearer of Clinton's 
letters of Dec. 24 (see no. 422, ante). Concerning his affidavit see Vt. Hist Soc., Collec- 
tions, II. 220, 240, 256, 372, 382; Vt. Recs., II. 461, 463. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 28 (p. 60 n.), Feb. 19, Mar. i. A summary of Smith's 
representation is in Vt. Recs., II. 372 ; N. H. State Papers, X. 418. 

* See the Jourttals, Jan. 25, 28, Feb. 19, 28, Mar. i ; also no. 422, note 2, ante, 436, 
440, 443, 450, 452, 455, 457. 460, post. The report presented Jan. 28 is printed in Hist. 
Magazine, XXIII. 257, with the conjectural date Oct. 17, 1781. With some modifications 
it was again presented Feb. 18. and appears in the Journals under Mar. i. 

23 



298 Continental Congress 

of the Mountain could be annexed to them, and those on the West side 
to N. Y, Mas,, R. I., and Connecticut are full for making them inde- 
pendent, at all events right or wrong, just or unjust; New Jersey, Dela- 
ware, and Maryland have been full for their independence; but some of 
them appear to be staggered since the late information. Pennsylvania 
has been rather favoring their independence, but now appear to be at a 
stand what to do ; N. C. and S. C. and Georgia and Virginia, are much 
in our favor. But what will be determined I am not able to say. Whether 
Congress will declare them an independent State, or oblige them to return 
to the State of New York, or whether they will oblige them to go partly 
to New York and part to New Hampshire. A few days I think will de- 
termine it, as something must immediately be done on the subject. 

With respect to the distressed circumstances of our State and the 
settlem't of our Agent's accounts, a Committee has had them for many 
weeks and have not reported, tho' I am constantly pressing them ; and they 
are as often promising to report in a day or two.** 

The concurrent Resolves of our Legislature respecting Colo. Van 
Schaick I have laid before Congress and they say that they can do nothing 
in the matter as it now stands, that they understood that he was tired 
of the service, and was about to resign, that he was not superseded for 
any misconduct in him.® 

Enclosed herewith is a copy of Chittenden's letter to the President in 
answer to the Resolves of the 20th of August last, it is Jesuitical and 
will bear different constructions/ 

Forgive me. Sir, when I press the sending on some one of my colleagues, 
for 'tis an intolerable omission, or neglect, when questions of the utmost 
consequence should be agitated and determined without our being able 
to give a vote on them 

435. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 
^^. Philadelphia ist Feb., 1782. 

Congress being disappointed in their Meeting yesterday your Excel- 
lency's letter of the 30th ult. of course, was not laid before them until 
this morning. In answer to that part which relates to Major Porter of 
the 6th Massachusetts Regiment, I am directed to inform your Excellency, 
that He never obtained the permission of Congress to go to France or 
elsewhere.'* 

^ See no. 405, ante. Concerning the general plan of settlement of accounts of the 
states see nos. 423, 430, ante, no. 438, post. 

« See the Journals, Jan. 10 (p. 34 n.), also Aug. 31, Sept. 3, 4, 1781, and nos. 304, 
428, ante. Robert R. Livingston wrote to Philip Schuyler Jan. i, 1782, concerning Van 
Schaick's problem, remarking, " I despair of geting him the satisfaction which is due him, 
.... I shall apply to the Secretary at War and the Genl. on the subject, as the business 
must be done thro that channel " (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1262, erroneously 
dated 1781). See further nos. 457, 470, post, and the Journals, May 21, June 26, Nov. 12. 

^ Presumably Chittenden's letter of Nov. 20, 1781, read in Congress Dec. 12. 
[435] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, p. 141. 

2 Washington's letter of Jan. 30 was referred to a committee Feb. i (Jourmils. 
p. 66 n.) and a report was made upon it Feb. 11, but the report does not mention Maj. John 
Porter. The following letters in the Washington Papers relate to his case: Heath to 
Washington Jan. 19, Aug. 8, 10; Washington to Heath Jan. 29. Aug. 8; Jonathan Trum- 
bull, jr., to Col. Calvin Smith Oct. 25. 



February, 1782 299 

436. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Dear Sir, Philada. 5th Feb. 1782. 

I reed, your favour of the 21st ulto." this day by the post and am 
straitned for time as the post goes out at 4 of clock. A committee of 13 
are now on the affairs of Vermont. Ira Allen and Mr. Fay are here. Some 
members of Congress are much alarmed and all are embarrassed at the 
present situation of Vermont affairs ; but they have such repugnant ideas 
and interests, or rather attachments, as render it very difficult, if not 
impossible, to bring them to agree to any one thing. However nothing 
has been, or shall be, wanting on my part.^ I long for the arrival of 
Mr. Jjangdon who I hope is on the road. 

I am convinced that a full representation of our state, at this juncture, 
wd. be of great use to us, as well as to the united states in general. I am 
heartily glad of the appointment of Mr. Oilman and Mr. Walker * as I 
fear my domestick affairs will call me home the first of the summer. 

437. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney.^ 

^^y Philadelphia Feby. 7th, 1782. 

.... I have been quite a Stranger to any Request Made by you and 
Mr. Vandike to be left out of the Delegation, if that be the Case it is 
well enough, but I rather think the General Assembly have had in View 
the getting such as were most likely to Serve for nothing, if so, they will 
find themselves mistaken as to me. more of this matter when I shall have 
the pleasure of seeing you.^ .... 

438. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

^Y ^^y^ Philada. Feby. 7th, 1782. 

.... Congress are still occupied with the thorny subject of Vermont.^ 
Some plan for a general liquidation and apportionment of the public debts 

[436] 1 N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 113. 

2 Weare's letter is in N. H. State Papers, X. 472. 

3 See no. 434, note 4, ante. On Feb. i Jonas Fay and Ira Allen presented to Congress 
their credentials of appointment as delegates from the state of Vermont, accompanied by 
a letter to the President, dated Jan. 30. The letter is in Vt. Recs., II. 368, where also is 
found a letter from Fay and Allen to Livermore, Feb. 5. See the Journals, Aug. 14, 1781, 
and no. 252, ante. They were presently joined by Abel Curtis. See no. 440, post. 

* John Taylor Oilman took his seat in Congress June 20, 1782. Timothy Walker, 
although several times elected, never attended. 

[437] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Stamp Act Congress, no. 48. 

2 The election of the Delaware delegates, of which Caesar Rodney was one, took 
place Feb. 2, and the credentials were presented Feb. 14. Neither Thomas Rodney nor 
Nicholas Van Dyke was re-elected. Van Dyke does not appear to have attended since the 
latter part of August. Thomas Rodney had attended Jan. 28, but he remained in attendance 
only a few days. He was probably (though not certainly) in attendance Feb. i, when, 
it would appear, he was placed on a grand committee to whom was referred the letter of 
Jan. 30 from Jonas Fay and Ira Allen. See the Journals, Feb. i (p. 66 n.), Feb. 19, Mar. i. 
The naming of Thomas Rodney, in the two latter entries, as a member of the committee 
does not import his actual presence in Congress when these reports were brought in. 
Although Caesar Rodney was in Philadelphia from time to time in this period, there is 
no evidence that he attended Congress. 

[438] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac, 1081 ; Writings, I. 176; Papers, I. 112. 

2 See no. 434, note 4. ante. 



300 Continental Congress 

is also under their consideration, and I fear will be little less perplexing. 
It is proposed that untill justice and the situation of the States will admit 
of a valuation of lands the States should be applied to for power to 
substitute such other rule of apportioning the exi)enditures as shall be 
equitable and practicable, and that Com'ss'rs. be appointed by the con- 
current act of the U. S. and each State to settle the accts. between them. 
The scheme is not yet matured, and will meet with many difficulties in its 
passage thro' Congress. I wish it may not meet with much greater when 
it goes down to the States. A spirit of accomodation alone can render it 
unanimously admissible; a spirit which but too little prevails, but w'h in 
few instances is more powerfully recommended by the occasion than the 
present. If our voluminous and entangled accts. be not put into some 
certain course of settlem't before a foreign war is off our hands it is 
easy to see they must prove an exuberant and formidable source of intestine 
dissentions.^ .... 

439. Elbridge Gerry to the Massachusetts Assembly.^ 

Marblehead 9th Feby. 1782. 
Gentlemen, 

I have this Day received from the Secretary of the State, a Resolve of 
the honorable Court, signifying their Desire to be informed whether I 
accept their last Appointment to a Seat in Congress; and beg Leave in 
Reply, to offer some Considerations that relate to the Subject." 

Soon after my Return to this State, in the Year 1780, I took the earliest 
Opportunity of communicating to the Assembly, such Matters as appeared 
to me to merit their attention : and stated my Reasons for supposing that 
the Mode adopted by Congress, in the Requisitions for that Campaign, 
had inferred a Tax of 309,176! Dollars in Specie, on this State, above 
it's due proportion. I likewise mentioned the Means used to prevent 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 9, 11, 16, Feb. 7, 20; cf. nos. 423, 430, ante, 446, 465, post. 
Touching this subject Charles Pettit wrote to General Greene Feb. lo: " As to our 
public accounts, they remain, to my great mortification, in Statu quo. The various resolu- 
tions of Congress on this subject, not perfectly consistent with each other in their first 
construction, and rendered still more variant by the different species of money to which 
they have pointed, and the fluctuations in the value of these monies, have so perplexed the 
business that I have thought it, for a long time past, dangerous to make the least movement 
in it farther than to urge the establishment of some solid and permanent principles on which 
it may be taken up and proceeded in with some degree of certainty and safety. Partly from 
the pressure of other business, and partly with a view to procrastinate the payment of old 
debts, this object has constantly been postponed, or moved in with languor whenever it 
has been stirred. Since the appointment of a Financier, everything of this sort has been 
in a measure referred to him, at least, so far as to the marking out a plan. Some time 
ago, he was induced to propose a plan for the Liquidation of the General Accounts between 
the U. States and the several states respectively, and for the settlement of the Accounts 
of public Officers etc." Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels 
of Philadelphia. 

Feb. 12 Gouverneur Morris wrote to Philip Schuyler, "As to Settlement of Accounts, 
Months have elapsed since a Plan for the Purpose has been before Congress and when they 
will adopt it I know not ". N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1551. 

[439]! Mass. Arch., CCIV. 36 (addressed to Samuel Adams, president of the Massa- 
chusetts senate, and Nathaniel Gorham, speaker of the house of representatives). 

2 Concerning this episode see vol. V., pp. 41, 45, 102, 115, 370, 382. For a later 
phase see under July 3, 1783, in the next volume of these Letters. 



February, I/82 301 

this Measure, and informed the Legislature, that in opposing it, I was 
deprived of the privilege of a Member. 

Proper Documents were produced in Support of Facts, which not only 
respected the Extra Tax, already mentioned, but likewise the Establish- 
ment of a Precedent for overrating the Abilities of the Common Wealth, 
and for loading it in future with insupportable burthens. 

The Matter was referred by the General Assembly, to a joint Com- 
mittee, who reported " that Congress did deny me the Privilege to which 
I was entitled, agreable to their own Rules and Orders : " and. " that the 
Delegates of this State be instructed to remonstrate to Congress relative 
to the Quota of Men and Rates of Supplies required of this State; and 
also with Regard to the Reinbursement of the Charges of the Expedition 
against Penobscot." 

The Report was accepted by the hon'ble House, but ordered to lie by 
the Council, and has not been since considered by that or any subsequent 
Legislature.^ 

True it is, that as I acted officially, the Silence of the honorable Court 
was a Matter of no Consequence to me, as an Individual, but as a Delegate 
the Concern was important. 

If I was mistaken in my Ideas of the Matter, (which however corre- 
sponded with those of the hon'ble House) it is highly probable, that in 
opposing the real Grievances of the State, I should hereafter be considered 
by Congress as being actuated by a partial Zeal, rather than guided by 
a candid Judgment, and should neither be able to promote the Interest of 
the State, nor answer the just Expectations of the General Assembly. 

But if on the other Hand, the Grievances complained of, did exist, and 
required the firmest Opposition, I can have no other Prospect, by continu- 
ing unsupported in Office, but that of being a painful Spectator to the 
Sacrifice of the Interest of my Constituents, and of being responsible for 
Consequences, which may not be the Result of my own Delinquency. 

These Considerations, and others that need not be mentioned, induce 
me to think, that it will be for the Interest of the Common Wealth, as 
well as for my own Honor, to retire from publick Employment; And I 
must therefore beg Leave to decline the Acceptance of a Seat in Congress. 

440. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Feb. nth, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

The post has just brought me your fav'r of the 29th ulto." We are 
now earnestly engaged in the affair of Vermont. Allen Fay and Curtis 
are here.* 

3 The report of the committee is in Mass. Arch., vol. CXLII. 
[440]! Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 66. 

- The letter is in N. H. State Papers, X. 479. 

3 See no. 436, ante. In Vt. Recs., II. 369, is a memorial from Fay and Allen, Feb. 7, 
to the committee of Congress of which Livermore was chairman, also a memorial from Fay, 
Allen, and Curtis to the committee Feb. 12. At p. 371 are two letters from the Vermont 
delegates to Congress requesting copies of certain New York and New Hampshire papers. 
See the Journals, Feb. 13, 18 (pp. 75 n., 77 n.), also nos. 443, 448, post. 



302 Continental Congress 

a large com'tee of Congress sat almost every day last week. On Satur- 
day we sat from 1 1 to 3 of clock and finally after much debate concluded 
to recommend to Congress to make one more offer to Vermont ecjual 
to that in Augt. last which you have seen, And to send them an agent to 
explain and inforce it ; with this alternative that unless they comply, it 
shall be recommended to New Hamp'r and N York to divide them at the 
heighth of land and to pass acts of indemnity and confirm the grants made 
by Vermont in cases of no prior grant, also to confirm the grants of 
N H. and N Y. under certain equitable conditions, so as to make all partys 
easy, as far as possible. I confess I like this, in case they will not comply 
with the Resolutions of Augt. last. But whether Congress will agree to 
this or anything else I know not. It will be opposed by one party that 
would make them independent on no conditions at all : and by another 
that would indulge them in every thing they can ask to the ruin of N H 
and N Y both, Allen has given us long narratives of his negotiations, 
but palliates, and some are inclined to believe him. We have no proof 
of his going into N. Y as your letter says 

441. EzEKiEL Cornell to George Washington.' 

[February 12, 1782.] - 

Resolved 

that the promotions here after made of Colo, or Lt. Colo. Commadant 
to the rank of Brigadier or of Brigadiers to the rank of Major Generals 
shall not entitle the officer so promoted to any additional half pay or 
allowance of land on account of such promotion, and that such of the 
present brigadiers as shall be promoted to the rank of Major Generals 
shall only be entitled to the half pay of brigadier and to the allowance 
of land allowed to brigadiers by the resolution of the 12th of August 
1780. And that such of the present Colo, or Lt. Colo, commadants as 
shall be promoted to the rank of brigadiers and from thence to that of 
Major Generals shall only be entitled to the allowance of land and half 
pay assigned to Colo, and Lt. Colo's commadant any resolution heretofore 
passed to the contrary not withstanding. 

Resolved 

that all brigadier Generals who held that rank previous to the first day of 
May 1777 be and they are hereby promoted to the rank of Major Generals 

Resolved 

that all Colo's who held that rank previous to the first day of May 
1777 be and they are hereby promoted to the rank of Brigadier Generals ' 

The foregoing proposed Resolutions are submited for your Excellencys 
jjerusal and your opinion thereon will be acknowledged as a favour by 
him who has the 

Honor to be your Excellencys most obedient Huml Servant 

E Cornell. 

[441 ]i Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Undated but so endorsed. Washington replied Feb. 13. 

^ Cf. the motion of Cornell Feb. 28. See also the Journals, May 25, 1781, Jan. 9, 
10, 19, 1782, and no. 127, ante, no. 567 (note 2), post. 



February, 1782 303 

442. The Virginia Delegates to the GoveriVor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

We have your favor of the 2d with the inclosures — those for Monsr. 
Mazzei shall be delivered to the Minister of foreign affairs with request 
to forward them in the manner desired.^ 

.... Duty as a Member of the federal union and interest as more 
intimately involved in the fate of the southern States cannot fail to operate 
as powerfuU incentives to Virginia to use every means in her power to 
recruit her continental line and afford every other reasonable support to 
the southern Army.^ As we are unacquainted with the supplies of Beef 
furnished by the State upon former requisitions we are at a loss to know 
how far it wo'd be necessary to ascertain the terms of the supply now called 
for to enable the State to charge it in acct. with the united States in part 
of the quota of the present year. If therefore any thing further is neces- 
sary to be done You will please to communicate your desires and they 
shall be attended to.* .... 

Mr. Randolph intends shortly to Virginia, by him we will endeavour 
to send the journals you wrote for and also the Cypher so long promised.' 

Phila: 15th February 1782. 



443. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Feb. 19th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I reed, your favour of the 4th instant respecting back rations, subsistance 
etca. claimed by the officers of our line." There is no resolution of Con- 
gress recommending to the states to pay any thing of that kind. Tis a 
misfortune that none of our journals have been printed for near two 
years. I suppose Genl. Sullivan brought you a compleat set of all that 
ever were printed. I enquired of the secretary and a number of the old 
members who all concurd in opinion that the states had nothing to do 
with the rations etca. Enclosed is a report of a com'tee respecting Vermont 

[442J1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 61 (part; signed 
by Madison, Randolph, and Jones). 

=^The governor's letter of Feb. 2 is in Official Letters, III. 142; his letter to 
Mazzei, dated Jan. 31, is ibid. 

3 Xhe delegates had spoken of the deficiencies in the Virginia continental line, 
which " should be first on the list of the southern army for numbers ", yet was, as they 
were informed, "greatly short of that of Maryland '". See the Journals, Feb. 13. The letter 
of the governor of Virginia there mentioned was read in Congress Feb. 6 (see the Journals, 
p. 67 n.). Cf. nos. 459, 464, post. 

* Harrison's reply. Mar. i, is in Official Letters, III. 168. 
' See no. 360, ante, nos. 484, 487, post. 

[443P N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 117. 

• Weare's letter of Feb. 4 is in N. H. State Papers, X. 577. 



304 Continental Congress 

but I believe it will never pass congress, several days have been spent on 
the subject.^ I wish for your sentiment on it. 
I have the honour to be your most obedt. servt. 

S. LiVERMORE. 

444. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot/ 

[February 20, 1782.] 
.... There is not the least prospect of Peace or scarcely the proba- 
bility of it — on the contrary every measure is adopting in England to 
send over a large body of Hanoverians and some English regulars early 
in the Spring. The Com'r in chief expects the next campaign to be the 
most important of any that has been or will be in America this war.* 
Alas! we are distressed with the languor and Inactivity of the States. 
All that can be done by Congress, has been, to rouse them from their 
Lethargy, but all is treated as matter of course. We have no official 
Information of any spirited measure taken by any State in the Union, 
equal to the necessity of the Times.^ .... 

445. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

<j.. Philada. Feby. 21, 1782. 

I have the honor to inform your Excellency that your letter of the 
15 Jany. enclosing sundry papers touching a claim of Sir James Jay upon 
the United States, was laid before Congress. This matter has been several 
times under the consideration of Congress and I have it in charge to 
communicate to your excellency the report of a committee on the Subject, 
to whom was referred a letter of the 4th of Septr. 1780 and on which 
report Congress passed a resolution on the 14 Deer. 1780, which I also 
enclose.^ I beg leave just to observe that the payment of Interest by bills 

3 This report is in the Library of Congress, " Continental Congress, Miscellaneous " 
(portfolio 103). Although the Journals record that the report was brought in Feb. 19, 
Livermore's remark shows that it had already been under discussion for several days. 
Indeed the New York delegates, in their letter of Mar. 5 (no. 452, post), state positively 
that the report was taken into consideration on the 14th, and the postscript to the letter of 
Livingston (no. 448, note 2, post) carries a similar implication. That postscript may have 
been written on the 14th, after the presentation of the report to Congress. On the other 
hand, the endorsement on the report (see the Journals. Mar. i, p. 113) indicates that it 
was brought in on Feb. 18. See further the Journals, Feb. 19, 28, Mar. i ; also no. 440, 
note 2, ante. 

[444]! Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 243 (extract). 

2 Writing again to his brother, Feb. 26, Boudinot remarked : " We have not the 
most distant prospect of Peace, but the Vigorous campaigne on the part of the Enemy 
is in view. I wish I could say as much of the United States. I am fully of opinion that 
England will draw out their resources to the utmost, and if there is any vigor in the british 
Lion yet left, we shall now see it." Life of Boudinot, 1. 246. 

^ See Secretary Livingston's circular to the states Feb. 19 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., V. 181), also Morris's circular letter of Feb. 15 (ibid., p. 164). Livingston's letter 
is also in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, III. 317; Morris's is ibid., p. 324. 

[445] ^N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4347; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 49, f. 375. 

2 See the Journals, July 18, 25, Aug. 29, Sept. 5, Dec. 14, 1780, Aug. 20, 27, 
Sept. 29, 1781. The Journals do not mention the New York letter of Jan. 15, 1782. 



February, 1782 305 

of exchange was confined to money lent before the ist day of March 
1778 and that no certificates issued after that time were entitled to that 
benefit. 

446. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 
Sir, 

We have your Excellencys favor of the 9th of this month.^ Since our 
last the plan for the final settlement of the public accounts from the com- 
mencement of the War to the ist of January 1782, which we formerly 
mentioned to be under consideration has been adjusted and agreed to 
by Congress and will be fully explained to your Excellency by the superin- 
tendant of finance to whose department it properly belongs, the want of 
the rule prescribed by the artides of Confederation and which from the 
particular situation of some of the States could not now be obtained 
rendered the adoption of any mode very difficult, the one proposed when 
the variety of circumstances and interests to be combined upon the occasion 
are considered, will perhaps be found as free from exception as any that 
could be devised and will it is to be hoped meet the approbation of the 
States.'' .... 

Phil.^ : 25th Febry 1782. 

447. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Feby. 25th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You have been misinformed I find with respect to that article 
in the scheme of the bank which claims for it the exclusive privilege of 
issuing circulating notes.^ It is true Congress have recommended to the 
States to allow it such a privilege, but it is to be continued only during 
the present war. Under such a limitation it was conceived both necessary 
to the success of the scheme, and consistent with the policy of the several 

[446] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Randolph, Jones, and 
Lee) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, IIL 76. 

2 Harrison's letter is in Official Letters, IIL 146. Among other contents the letter 
acknowledges receipt of the delegates' letter of Jan. 24, which pertained chiefly to the 
method of shipping the military stores that the state of Virginia was obtaining from France 
(the letter was at one time in possession of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York). A 
letter from the delegates to the Chevalier de la Luzerne on the subject, Jan. 24, is in 
Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 47, and a letter from Harrison to Luzerne, Feb. 9, is in Official 
Letters, III. 148. 

3 See nos. 423, 430, 438, ante, 465, post. A plan for the settlement of accounts was 
adopted Feb. 20, and additional measures adopted Feb. 27. The latter resolves were taken 
upon consideration of a letter from the superintendent of finance, Feb. 18 (Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Corr., V. 171). See further Morris's circular letters of Mar. 9 and Apr. 15 {ibid., 
PP- 230, 309), and no. 465, post. The omitted passage is mainly a reply to the governor's 
request with regard to supporting the southern army, that the delegates call on Congress 
and insist " that they deal by us as they have done by other States ". 

[447]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 179; Papers, I. 113. 
2 See Pendleton's letter of Jan. 28, Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, second ser.. 
XIX. 14s. 



306 Continental Congress 

States; it being improbable that the collective credit and specie of the 
whole wd. support more than one such institution, or that any particular 
State wd. during the war stake its credit anew on any paper experiment 
whatever 

448. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Feby. 26, 1782. 
Sir, 

I omitted writing to your Excellency by last post Expecting that before 
this day Congress would have Come to Some determination on the Ver- 
mont Business, and that I might by Now, have been able to have given 
you fully the Sense of Congress on that Subject. But notwithstanding 
every Effort which Mr. Scott and myself have been able to make, we have 
not been able to bring it to a Question, the Report has been fully Debated 
and I believe that Nothing Now Can be said for, or against the Report, 
but yet we Cannot Get the Question, the Reasons as I imagine which 
hinders are, that there being Seven if not Eight States, for giving them 
Independance within their original Claime, and as it is one of those 
Questions which Requires nine States ; they are puting it of in Expecta- 
tion of Obtaining one or more in their favour, your Excellencys Letter 
of the 5th Instant with the Intelligence from New York Came to hand 
in time, Even while we had the Matter under Consideration which I 
Read to the house, and which Corresponded Exactly with what we had 
Reed, from new York through another Channel ; this put it out of Doubt 
in the mind of Every Gentleman in Congress that they have Entered 
into Such Treaty, but those who wish to befriend these Traytors to their 
Country, Endeavour to Extenuate their guilt by Saying that they only 
meant to Deceive the Enemy and that nothing Real was Intended. 

The Difference between us in Congress on this Question is, whether 
We Shall again offer these people Independance or not. 7 or 8 States are 
for the Question, yet I believe there are so many Opposed to it that they 
will not be able to get nine States, under these Circumstances I am afraid 
that Nothing Effectuall will be Done very Soon." 

1 448 J 1 N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4359. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 19, 21 (p. 87x1.), 28, Mar. i, aiid nos. 434, 436, 440, 443, 
ante, 450, 452, 455, 457, 460, post. The letter of Feb. 21 from the Vermont agents to the 
President of Congress, read in Congress the same day, is in Vt. Recs., II. 373. Robert R. 
Livingston wrote to Philip Schuyler Feb. 13 : 

" I direct to Poughkepsie in the persuasion that you are there attending on the Legisla- 
ture since I find by your favor of the ist you are fully impressed with the necessity of 
coming to some determination, on that very alarming business you mention. Your Dele- 
gates will I dare say give you a state of it, as it lies before Congress, But least they should 
not, I mention to you what I have been able to learn out of Doors, not chusing from the 
peculiarity of my Situation to attend the Committee, or to appear to interest myself in the 
issue, except as a Member of the Community at large. Upon the Representations from 
the State a Committee were appointed consisting of one Member from each State, shortly 
after which, they received such Evidence of their intercourse with the Enemy as alarmed 
them exceedingly. The Agents for Vermont who have since arrived, and who are daily 
heard by the Committee, have endeavoured to explain away this Connection, which they 
do not deny by declaring, that their Object was merely to temporize with the Enemy, and 



February, 1782 307 

We have no late accounts from Genl. Green, the Report or Information 
which he had of a large Reinforcement from Ireland, is we think without 
foundation. 

I am Sir with the Greatest Respect and Esteem 

Your most obedt. and humble Servt. 

Wm. Floyd. 

449. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (John Mathews).^ 

Febru'y 27th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We have not been honour'd with any of your Letters since [blank~\ 
nor have received any Advices from Carolina which can be depended on, 
respecting the Proceedings of the Legislature nor of the Operations of 
the Army since General Greene moved down the Country and obliged the 
Enemy to Evacuate Dorchester ; - we can not but be anxious on both 
these Subjects, at a period so critical to the Interests of our Country, 
and are hopefull of receiving shortly agreeable Intelligence ^ We 



prevent the distress of their Country. Many Members oi the Committee seem disposed to 
admit this plea. More totally disbeleive it. Those who are most their Friends insist upon 
their relinquishing their new Qaim, their Agents here resolve to maintain it so that I 
have very great Doubts about their acquiescence in the Resolutions of August last. If 
however Congress can come to any Resolution upon the Subject (which I very much 
doubt from the variety of Sentiments that prevails) it will be to give them a short day by 
which they must close with the resolutions of August last, upon pain of having the Arms 
of the United States turned against them, this seems to be the prevailing Sentiment, but 
whet[h]er it is the Sentiment of seven out of the nine States of which Congress are now 
composed I know not, more esspecially as our Delegates must vote against it 

" [P. S.] This moment I am informed that the Committee upon the Vermont business 
have determined as I above supposed they would, with this addition that if the terms are not 
accepted in one month from the time of serving the resolutions the green mountains are to 
be the division between us and New Hampshire. And the Genl. is without further order 
to reduce them to obedience." 

This letter, which is addressed to Schuyler at Poughkeepsie, " Hon'd by Wm. Bedlow 
Esqr.", is endorsed: " From Robt. R Livingston Esq. Feb: 13: 1782 Reed. 21 do. An'd 22 
do." It also bears the following memorandum : " write the Chancellor to put some member 
of Congress in mind of our Act relative to Vermont." The original is in N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Schuyler Papers, no. 1563; a copy is ibid., Bancroft Coll., no. 861. Cf. Livingston to 
Franklin Feb. 13. Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 160. 

[449]! S. C. Hist, and Geiieal. Mag., XXVII. 51. 

2 Letters from Edward Rutledge to Mrs. Middleton (Feb. 6) and to Arthur 
Middleton (Feb. 8. 14, 26), relating events in South Carolina, are in S. C. Hist, and Geneal. 
Mag., XXVII. i-io. Letters from Rutledge to Middleton Mar. 16 to Sept. 2 are ibid., 
pp. 10-23. With regard to the new election of delegates Rutledge wrote Feb. 8: " I am 
sorry that those who are in Philadelphia are thrown out. I did what I could to prevent it, 
but my exertions were ineffectual. However, they will think themselves relieved of much 
burden." Feb. 14 he wrote : "As I was not able to continue them altogether in the Dele- 
gation, In Justice to them as well as to their Country, I got the Resolution passed con- 
tinuing them until a sufficient Number to represent this State shall arrive in Philadelphia." 
The resolution was adopted Feb. 9 (MS. Journal, S. C. House of Reps., 1782, p. 76). 
David Ramsay, writing to Benjamin Rush Feb. 9 concerning the new delegation, remarked 
that Gadsden had declined on account of age and infirmities (Library Company of Phila- 
delphia, Ridgway Branch, Yiz. 7257 F 19). 

3 An omitted passage relates chiefly to the arrival at Havana of Commodore 
Gillon, " with five Jamaica British prizes of considerable value ". Elias Boudinot wrote 
to Elisha Boudinot Feb. 26 of this event, adding, " So that impoverished State will in a 
great measure be reimbursed for part of their enormous Expense attending that vessel " 
{Lije of Boudinot, I. 246). See no. 274, ante. 



308 Continental Congress 

can not flatter ourselves with anything so favourable to our Wishes as an 
Evacuation of what they [the enemy] hold to the Southward, a Circum- 
stance which would be agreeable, tho' not equally so with that of their 
being disgraced by Capture in a Country so long curs'd by their despotic 
Sway. We are rather apprehensive that their Purpose is to remove the 
Slaves and Property they have stollen to some place of greater Security ; 
as they must have reason to think that a Cooperation of our Ally may not 
be improbable in Which case they must look for the Fate of York Town. 
A short time will however discover their views.* .... 

450. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia March 2nd, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... But as the subject ^ is painfull to me, to dwell on, and will 
doubtless be so to you, I shall proceed to the old story of Vermont, and 
that is worn a little thread-bare. Yesterday, after several days debate on 
the subject, a resolution was passed to strike out of the report of the 
Com'tee (you have the report) all that part which proposed to give Ver- 
mont another month to Comply with the resolution of Augt. last, etca. 
This you will very plainly see was to destroy the whole report. The debate 
will be taken up again in a few days ; but what will be done I know not. 
I fear some would sacrifice the peace of N. H. and N Y. both to gratify 
their darling Vermont ; others will never agree to any terms that suppose 
the existence of their independence. Between these two partys no one 
proposition respecting them can be agreed on.^ 

You will perceive by the memo, inclosed that the Lottery is not yet 
done drawing. 

451. Samuel Osgood to James Lovell.^ 

Saturday 2d March [1782.] 
Dear Sir, 

Nothing interesting has taken Place since I wrote you last. We have 
employed this Week principally upon Vermont and after two or three 
Days tedious Debate Amendments Yeas and Nays upon the same we 
finally came to a Vote upon the whole yesterday Mr. Woolcot 

* Respecting the exchange of Cornwallis see nos. 365, 402, ante, and the Jour- 
nals, Feb. 18, 23. Respecting the course of the British in South Carolina see Rutledge's 
letter of Feb. 26, referred to in note 2, above. Rutledge wrote to Middleton Apr. 23 : "I 
am very sorry that Cornwallis's Exchange has been agreed to : He should have been held 
a Prisoner for Life as a Rascal, and the World should have known that he was precluded 
from the Benefits of Freedom, because he was a Monster and an Enemy to Humanity. 
However, I am in hopes the Terms upon which he is offered to be Exchanged will destroy 
the Thing itself." 5". C. Hist, mid Geneal. Mag., XXVU. 15. 
[450] 1 N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 124. 

2 The omitted passage relates to bills which he had drawn in order to repay Robert 
Morris for advances. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. i, and no. 448, ante, nos. 451, 452, post. 
[451]' N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (bound with 1781). 



March, 1782 309 

was in the Negative not because he is against the State but he did not 
think that the Report was on liberal Principles. Thus we cannot make 
them independent : we cannot obtain a Vote to reduce them to Subjection 
to any of the Claiming States. The natural Inference seems to be that 
they must remain as they now are, If they are contented to be so. I wish 
the Consequences may not be dangerous.^ 

You will find that Congress have come to a determination on the Report 
respecting Mr, Temple, which has been postponed from Time to Time, 
as you well know. We have reed, no Kind of Intelligence respecting him 
and could not with much Reason request a farther Delay. I have in a 
former Letter requested you to inform me of his Situation with Respect 
to the Government and I doubt not I shall by the next Post receive some 
Anecdotes from you on this Head.^ .... 

452. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, March 5th, 1782. 
Sir, 

On Thursday the 14th last, Congress proceeded to a consideration of 
the Report of their Committee on the subject of the New Hampshire 
Grants,^ a copy whereof we have the honor to enclose you, and for the 
purpose of shortening the debate they agreed to take up first in order 
the second resolution. Because the others evidently depended on it, and 
would necessarily in a great measure become nugatory, should that be 
negatived ; it was debated till the adjournment of that day without putting 
the question, and resumed and debated again on Thursday last, and on 
the day following on a motion made by one of us, seconded by the other, 
for striking out the Resolution the question was put, shall the clause 
stand ? On this question the yeas and nays were called for, and the State 
of them was as follows: to wit. New Hampshire unrepresented, 
Mr. Livermore for that State. No. Connecticut divided, not on princi- 
ples agt. the independency held up by the clause, but because Mr. 
VVolcott, one of the Members wished, for obvious reasons, that the limits 
of the New Hampshire Grants should be undefined. Massachusetts, Rhode 
Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania (except Col. Atler [Atlee]) Delaware 
and Maryland, Ay. The rest of the States, No. So that even had seven 
States been sufficient to carry the question in the Affirmative, the clause 

2 See nos. 448, 450, ante, 452, 455, post. 

8 See the Journals, Jan. 2, Feb. 27. The letter of Livingston, mentioned under 
Feb. 27 as dated Nov. 22, 1781, is recorded in the Journals Jan. 2 as dated Nov. 18. It is in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IV. 845. That of John Adams, Aug. 16, 1781, is ibid., p. 658, 
and in Adams's Works, VII. 457. See also no. 572, post ; cf. the Journals, Sept. i. Dec. 3, 8, 
1778, and the letters of Samuel Adams Sept. 3, Dec. 13, 19, 21, 25, in vol. III. of these 
Letters. The proceedings of Feb. 27 were, in accordance with the instructions of Congress, 
transmitted by President Hanson to the governor of Massachusetts Mar. i (Mass. Arch., 
CXLII. 426; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 142). 

[452]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 208 (signed by Scott and Floyd). 

2 Although the Journals do not mention that the question was considered Feb. 14, 
there are other indications that the report referred to was actually presented on that day! 
See no. 443, note 3, ante. 



310 Continental Congress 

was necessarily lost. A motion was then made (with a view to substitute 
something in lieu of the rejected clause) for recommitting the residue of 
the report and on the yeas and nays being called for, the motion was lost. 
So that the Report stripped of its principal resolution yet lies before 
Congress ; and will not we suppose be moved on again except by us, who 
intend shortly to prepare another set of resolutions for the introduction 
of which we must necessarily move for postponing the rest of the Report. 
The States who were with us in negativing the clause are strongly against 
declaring the independency of the Grants either on supposition of the 
want of authority in Congress so to declare them, on principles of political 
expedience, or because they conceive that the admission of the Grants 
as an Independent State into the federal Union would be prejudicial to 
the United States. What alteration may happen in the sentiments of those 
States from a change of members we cannot say. But to guard against 
such an event we shall endeavor to bring Congress to some final deter- 
mination on this momentous subject as speedily as possible. In the trans- 
actions above related Congress have fully evinced their settled departure 
from the ground of submission established by their Resolutions of the 
24th September, 1779, which exclude the interested States from voting. 
For upon no other principle could they have admitted New Hampshire 
and New York to a vote. 

The Secretary for Foreign Affairs yesterday read to us a passage in a 
letter from a correspondent at Boston which positively asserts that General 
Sullivan had marched with 1000 men to reduce to obedience to their 
government the revolters on the East side of Connecticut River. It were 
to be wished we could do the like on our part ; and also fully inform the 
inhabitants of that territory of the secret overtures of Ira Allen and a 
few others to subject it to the Crown of Great Britain. This Allen con- 
fessed before the Committee of Congress in terms nearly in substance 
similar to the copy you did us the honor to enclose to us ; which, together 
with such parts of your letter as were proper to be made public we read 
in Congress ; but he added to his confession that the overtures were only 
intended to prevent an expected inroad from Canada into their country. 

Our most sanguine views will not flatter us with a hope that Congress 
can possibly be brought to any thing more than to give an express 
guarantee to us up to the 20 mile line and to New Hampshire to Connecti- 
cut River, and perhaps to support that guarantee by the arms of these 
United States. But this is doubtful. In this view it is evident that some 
State measure must be taken to secure the interjacent country. What we 
propose is, that the line of partition between us and New Hampshire, 
held up by one of the Resolutions in the Report, be settled by concurrent 
Acts of the two States. We are the more anxious for this measure, because 
as it will take nothing from us as a State which in point of soil or 
jurisdiction is worth our possessing, so it will add vastly in both to New 
Hampshire, and probably induce them to make common cause with us 
in reducing the revolters to obedience by arms. This measure we conceive 
may without breach of faith be adopted by the two States, as it is evident 
that Congress will not determine the controversy on the ground of sub- 



March, 1782 311 

mission held up by this aforesaid Resolution, and confirmed by the Acts 
of the two States. Be assured, Sir, that we shall be unwearied in our 
endeavors on this and every other subject to promote the interest of the 
State we have the honor to represent,^ 

453. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard/ 

Philadelphia March 5th, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

.... By some late Resolutions of Congress the Superintendant of 
Finnance is to appoint a commissioner for settling the Accts. of each 
State to the last Day of Deer. 1781. 

This being a temporary Business perhaps of but one or two Years 
standing with a Salary of 1500 Doll, per Annum and liberty of appointing 
a Clerk with a Salary of 500 Doll, per Ann. and which may be executed 
at home, I have recommended you as one, by which you can also provide 
for Johnny till the War may be over. 

You will hear farther from Mr. Morris on this Subject e'er long.' .... 

454. John Hanson to John Hall(?).^ 

Philadelphia Mar. nth 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

.... The assembly of this State are now Sitting, and have unani- 
mously passed their Supply Bill for raising the Quota of money required 
by Congress, the whole to be paid in hard money, or Bank Xotes. This 
Exertion is the more pleasing, as it is to be feared, most of the other 
States will be greatly deficient. If it was Expected by our assembly, 
that the Financier would take off our Specific Articles, I am afraid they 
will be disap[pointe]d. He will it is more likely require, that the money 
should be paid in to the Treasury, in order to discourage Taxes being 
received in Specific Articles in future 

455, Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 12th March 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I am honoured with yours of the 23rd ulto., which I shall immediately 
lay before Congress. 

3 See nos. 455, 457, 460, post. Scott wrote to Governor Clinton the same day : " I 
count myself happy, that I arrived here so opportunely as I did ; as the Consideration of 
the Report, a Copy of which is inclosed in our official Letter came on next day." N. Y. 
State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4378. 

[453]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, IL 94. 

2 Boudinot wrote to Pintard Mar. 12 : "As to the appointment I mentioned to you, 
it is for the purpose of settling- and adjusting the Accts. of the department for which it is 
made up to the last day of Deer. 1781 and no farther. I can't imagine it can take above 
two Years at most, and there is little or no Prospects of Peace in that Time." Ibid., II. 235. 

[454] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., Gilmor Papers, III. 3. 

[455 P N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, X. 128. 



312 Continental Congress 

I am sorry the subject had not been divided, so as to bring into view, 
first the quota of eight million; and afterward redress for five million 
old Continental, that died in your hands. However I shall do the best 
I can with it.^ As to Vermont, a rumour prevails here, that they have 
agreed to comply with the Resolutions of Augt. that is, to relinquish their 
late encroachments, etca. if this be true, the hurly burly is done. The papers 
they laid before Congress were chiefly copies of such things as they had 
formerly laid before the assembly of Newhampsh'e, with a pretty long 
memorial of theirs, drawn up in their usual style. I should have sent you 
copies, if they had appeard interesting! but I will revise, and if anything 
appears new, you shall have it. As to the sense of Congress, it appears 
to me, that N York Virginia N and S Carolina and Georgia are against 
receiving Vermont into Confederation, or allowing independence. Massa. 
R'd Island Con't N Jersey Pens'a Deleware and Maril'd favr. them. 
So you see 7 for it 5 against it. But it requires the assent of Nine states, 
by articles of Confederation. Some of the states may change their dele- 
gates, or delegates may change their minds. My own private opinion 
would be (seeing the matter is brought to what it is) to give them inde- 
pendence, and receive them into confederation, if that would end our 
troubles upon the subject, which I suppose it would; but I shall never 
vote for it without instructions from the state (as I think myself bound 
by instructions to the contrary. ) Perhaps the case may be much the same 
wth the delegates of N Y : but this I cant affirm. Genl. Scot and Col. Floyd 
are gen. of candour, and discernment; but they are governed by instruc- 
tions. If nothing else will do let N. H, and N Y by acts of legislature 
appoint commissioners to settle the boundarys (at the heighth of Land). 
This proposal comes from the delegates of N Y. If N H must go to war 
they may as well claim to the heighth of land as to the river and perhaps 
as easily conquer one as the other.^ If Mr. Langdon shd. decline which 
I shd. be sorry for, I wish the other delegates may be sent to relieve me 
by first of Mav or sooner. 

456. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare),^ 

Philadelphia 12th March 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... A Court of appeals has been instituted by Congress, to hear all 
appeals from the maritime Courts, in cases of capture: to consist of 
three judges, any two to make a quorum : To sit once a year, in an eastern, 
middle, and southern district.^ Two judges have been appointed and have 

2 Weare's Letter of Feb. 23 to Livermore (A''. H. State Papers, X. 578) was read 
in Congress Mar. 13 and referred to a committee (see the Journals, p. 128 n.). The com- 
mittee's report was taken into consideration Apr. i and agreed to May 22. See no. 376, 
ante, nos. 463, 467, 478, 483, post. 

3 See nos. 450, 455, ante, 457, 460, post. 
[456]iMass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 70 (marked "private"). 

2 For some account of the earlier history of the Court of Appeals see vol. V., 
no. 33, note 2. After the adoption of the Articles of Confederation, Mar. i, 1781, there was 
a movement to establish the Court of Appeals on the basis of a thoroughgoing ordinance. 



March, 1782 313 

acted. Another judge is wanted. In the begining of Jany. I was in 
nomination and had the vote of six states : but Rd. Island was against 
me: so I missed the election, as nothing is valid without seven states. 
There were then but seven states represented. The affair being brought 
on next day an objection was started, that no member of Congress could 
be appointed, according to articles of Confederation. The election was 
then put off for my time in Congress to expire (the i8th Jan). My reap- 
pointment frustrated this plan. No judge is yet elected.^ .... 

457. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, March 12th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

We were yesterday honored with the Receipt of your Excellency's 
Letter of the 2d instant by some private hand,- It gave us great Pleasure 
to find not only that the Legislature were disposed to continue firm in 
the same Spirit which dictated their concurrent resolutions of October 
last; but that the people at large were greatly incensed at the perfidy of 
the Leaders of the inhabitants of the Grants, so fully evidenced by their 
Negociations with the Enemy. Their Conduct in this Instance will we 
hope leave them without a Friend in the State; and ought to operate as 
a most cogent Reason with Congress to blow up their Fabric of Inde- 
pendence. We see clearly however that interested and political Motives 
have such an Influence on a Majority of Congress; that from these Ne- 
gotiations strong Arguments of political Expedience are drawn in favor 
of a declaration of their Independence and their Admission into the 
Foederal Union, as the most effectual Means to prevent such Negotiations 

Apr. 12, 1 781, Madison made a motion embodying the outlines of such an ordinance, which 
was referred to a committee consisting of Varnum, Bee, and McKean. This committee 
brought in an ordinance May 10, which was read a second time May 11, and a third 
reading set for May 14. The Journals contain no record of this third reading; but on 
June 4 the same committee, to whom the subject had been recommitted, brought in a new 
ordinance, which was given a first reading, and the second reading set for the following 
day. The second reading did not however take place until June 25, when it was debated and 
further consideration postponed. The particular question debated at that time was whether 
the judges should hold their commission during good behavior. On July 18 the ordinance 
was again taken into consideration, and under that date it is printed in the Journals, with 
certain paragraphs marked " passed ". Again the ordinance was recommitted, and Edmund 
Randolph added to the committee, who were further instructed to bring in an ordinance 
regulating the proceedings of admiralty courts, etc. On Aug. 14 this committee brought in 
a new ordinance for establishing a court of appeals and also an ordinance ascertaining what 
captures on water shall be legal. Indeed Congress appears at this time to have largely 
turned aside from the question of establishing a court of appeals and given its attention 
to the subject of captures on water. See no. 426, note, 4, ante. It was not until Jan. 3, 1782, 
that Congress returned to the problem of establishing a court of appeals. Mar. 30 a new 
ordinance was reported and Tuesday, Apr. 2, set for a second reading; but the subject 
now disappears altogether from the Journals. With regard to the vacancies, which were 
not filled until Dec. 5, see nos. 587, 708, post, and the Journals, Nov. 22, Dec. 2, 5, 13. 

s Livermore discusses the possibility of bringing about his appointment eventually. 
See no. 491, Post. 

[457]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc. Duane Papers, V. 418 (draft, in the writing of Scott) ; Har- 
vard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSB., XII. 21 r. 

2 This letter has not been found. 

24 



314 Continental Congress 

in future. Whereas every disinterested person must clearly see that by 
establishing the Independence of the Grants and admitting them into 
the Union, the Influence of their wicked I>eaders will be rendered perma- 
nent, and endanger the Safety of these United States, by admitting so 
many Serpents into our Bosom to poison our Councils, divulge our Secrets 
and give an easy admission to the Enemy into the Heart of the American 
Empire. Yet however evident the danger, the Majority appear so fixed 
that nothing but their Inability to increase their Number to nine States 
can prevent the Execution of the dangerous Plan and the arbitrary dis- 
memberment of our unhappy State. 

No New Manoeouvres [sic] have taken place since we had the honor 
of writing to you officially by Mr. Paymaster General Pearse.^ Before 
the receipt of your Letter we had information that the Grants had lopped 
off their Wings ; and that agents were on their Way hither ; to make the 
preliminary Relinquishment required by the Resolutions of Augt. last. 
We shall endeavor to prevail on Congress to defer taking up the Business 
on this Ground 'till we shall be further honored with the Instructions 
of the Legislature which we are determined shall in every Instance be 
the invariable Rule of our public Conduct. We beg that not a moment 
may be lost in conveying them to Us, and at the same Time we wish to 
be furnished with directions whether we are to keep our State or leave 
them till further Order from the States, in Case an arbitrary Majority 
should force the detested independence upon us. Permit us Sir to assure 
you and the Legislature that in this and every other Instance we shall 
devote ourselves to the Promotion of the true Interest of our State as it 
stands connected with the real welfare of these United States; and that 
we shall be punctual in our official informations on this and every other 
Subject.* 

\\^ith respect to Colonel Willets affair the Prospect is very discouraging. 
His restoration to his Rank seems almost impossible on the present Plan 
of military Arrangements. We have, as you advised, conferred with the 
Commander in Chief; who while he pays particular Attention to the 
Colonel's military Merit, seems to be of Opinion that should the Door 
be opened for his restoration it would be productive of so many similar 
Applications which could not be complied with, as would prove injurious 
to the Public by giving great and just Cause of discontent. Of the same 
opinion is the Assistant Secretary of War; who if we may judge from 
our Conversation with him, can never be induced to recommend it to 
Congress to restore the Colonel to his Rank. He gave also the fullest 
Reason to believe that General Lincoln will be of the same Opinion. How- 
ever Sir to convince you and Colonel Willet, that we shall leave no Method 
unessayed to serve him and the State in this Instance we shall apply to 
the Secretary of War immediately on his Return from Boston, which 
is hourly expected. ° 

s John Pierce. 

* See nos. 448, 450, 452, 455, ante, no. 460, post. 

■' See no. 470, post. The letter is unsigned, but the delegates were Scott and Floyd. 



March, 1782 315 

P. S. Mr. Scott begs Leave to remind your Excellency, that he wishes, 
if it is the Intention of the Legislature that his attendance in Congress 
should be of any considerable duration that the Supply of Cash men- 
tioned in his Letter to you may be spee[ded]. 

The Concurrent Resolutions of the Senate and Assembly Respecting 
Colo. Van Schaicks supercedure was laid before Congress before Mr. 
Scott arrived But as they Could not be prevailed on to do any thing in 
his favour at that time we Intend as soon as the Secretary at War arrives 
from Boston to see whether we Cannot get him to Report Something 
that will do him Justice.* 



458. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Sim Lee).^ 

Philadelphia March 12th: 1782. 
Sir, 

We are this day honored with yours of the 5th Instant inclosing a Copy 
of yours to the President of the 28th Ulto: the Original of which was 
referred to the Secretary of War. 

We are informed by the Assistant that he has informed your Excellency 
and the Council of what can at present be done. We shall do everything 
in our power to obtain what our State requires.^ 



459. The Virginia Deleg.\tes to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

S'r, 

We are honoured with your favors of the 22d ult. and ist instant the 
last covering a resolution of the House of Delegates of the 5th of January 
last which we had before received and lodged along with the Superintend't 
of Finance. We cannot at present return a full answer to your request 
respecting the supply of Beef required from Virga. for the Southern 
Army. It is probable we shall be able to do it by Mr. Randolph, who 
will set off in a few days for Virga." 

Phila: i2th Mar: 1782. 

" This appended paragraph is in the writing of William Floyd. See no. 434, ante, 
no. 470, post, 

[458 J ^ Md. Hist. Soc., LXXXVII. 3i3 (signed by Hanson and Carroll). 

2 The letter to the President of Congress, Jan. 28, is in Arch, of Md., XLVHI. 59, 
and is an urgent request for a supply of clothing for the Maryland troops. The letter to 
the delegates Mar. 5 (ibid., p. 92) encloses a copy of the letter to the President and 
reiterates the request. 

1459]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Jones) ; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, HI. 96. 

2 See no. 442, ante, no. 464, post. Harrison's letter of Mar. i is in Official Letters, 
HI. 168. See also his letter to the President of Congress Mar. 29 (ibid., p. 185). 



316 Continental Congress 

460. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia March 15th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Tho we had the Honor of writing to You by the last Post, yet we 
thought it our duty to suggest to the Legislature thro' your Excellency 
the thought which has occurred to Us of reducing to a voluntary Sub- 
mission to the authority of Govt, the deluded Inhabitants between Hud- 
sons River and the 20 Mile Line We therefore beg leave to 

recommend it to the consideration of the Legislature whether sound 
Policy does not at this Juncture dictate the Expediency of passing an 
act of Oblivion in their favour with a limitation of time within which 
they shall be required to take the Oath of allegiance to the State to entitle 
them to the Benefit of the act. We feel the more desirous that this 
conciliatory Method should be adopted because We find it wished for by 
those States in congress who warmly espouse our cause. Our Situation 
we conceive to [be too] critical to permit our disappointing the expecta- 
tions of those Friends, by whose attachment to the Rights of our State 
the report in favour of the Grants was prevented from taking Effect; and 
we are persuaded that the Proposed lenient Step on our part will be 
extreamly agreable to them.- .... 

461. William Ellery to .* 



Phil. March 17th 1782. 
D'rSir, 

Immediately upon the receipt of your letter inclosing Genl. Roberdeau's 
certificate and bills, he wrote you a letter acknowledging the receipt 
thereof ; and upon the same sheet I gave you a line referring thereto, and 
assuring you that I would do every thing in my power to procure the 
payment of your loan-office account etc. etc. 

I accordingly made an extract from your letter of that part which 
respected that matter, and laid it before the Comm'ee of the week; but 
finding they would report that it should lay on the table, I took it back, 
and laid it before the Superintendant of Finance ; who told me that he 
would write to you on the Subject of it. Whether any addition will be 
made to the pay of the Keepers of the Loan-Offices I cannot determine ; 
but as it is the design of the Superintendant of Finance that those ap- 
pointments should be abolished as soon as it can be done with propriety, 
I believe none will be made. You will most certainly be paid what is due 
and may become due to you from the public ; but perhaps not so soon as 
you may wish.^ .... 

[460]^ N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4390 (in the writing of Scott, with the 
signatures of Scott and Floyd) ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 422 (draft, in Scott's 
writing) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 211. 

2 See nos. 448, 450, 452, 455, 457, ante, 463, 465, 469, 470, 472, 476, post. 
[461]'^ Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc., portfolio 103. 

2 See the reports of a committee (Clark, Howell, and Benjamin Hunting^ton) 
July 8, 12 (Journals, pp. 376, 384). 



March, 1782 317 

462. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philada. March i8th 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have taken no step in the business of the Western 
territory since the report of the Committee of which I have already given 
you an account, and which we hear arrived at Richmond on the day of 
the adjournment of the assembly. We wish it to undergo their considera- 
tion, and to receive their instructions, before we again move in it. Mr. 
Randolph by whom this goes, will probably be present at the May Session 
and will be possessed of every information that may be necessary. I refer 
you to the interview with him which I hope that occasion will afford 
you for other congressional intelligence.^ .... 

463. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia March 19th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your letter abt. the quota and the five million, has been read and com- 
mitted to a Committee.^ I find it will be violently as well as unreasonably 
opposed. I have not proceeded so fast, as I should have done for want 
of certain members of Congress now absent, but which will soon be here, 
that I expect will be friendly. Is it possible that self interest should be 
able to blind so great and good men as members of Congress are? I 
shall do my utmost however to get justice done. Tis said Charlestown is 
evacu[a]ted — doubtfull — Be that as it will: The debates in the Brittish 
parliam't and success of the French in the west indies are much in our 
favour.^ 

Now for a word about Vermont, If we should extend west of the river 
to the ridge of mountains, it must be done with the good will of the 
people living between the river and those mountains otherwise the acqui- 
sition would cost N. H. more than it is worth. Now if that district 
wish to joyn us, as has been often hinted, and as has been undoubtedly 
the case heretofore. It would be very agreable; and easy to accomplish. 
I suppose the legislature of N Y would gladly settle with the legislature 
of N H. without the intervention of Congress a line on the ridge of 

1462]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, L 179 (part); 
Papers, L 115. 

2 To Pendleton, Madison wrote Mar. 19: "Mr. Randolph set off this morning 
and will probably reach you nearly as soon as this. I leave it to him to make known 
other Particulars" (Madison Papers, Ac. 1081). A preceding passage of the letter is 
found in Writings, I. i8i. The letter from the delegates to the governor, dated Mar. 19 
(no. 464, post), says that Randolph left "yesterday". 

[463]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 71. 

2 See no. 45s, ante. 

3 Boudinot wrote to Lewis Pintard Mar. 19 : " We have had various arrivals here 
from Europe and America. Our Affairs the other side of the Water appear very flattering 
and have reason to hope for the best. No prospect of Peace. Britain is very stomachful, 
and will die hard. They are greatly divided in that unhappy Island and I believe will 
remain so." Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, H. 97. 



318 Continental Congress 

mountains as a boundary line between N, H. and N. Y. and if the people 
on the east of the mountains approve of it This would throw us into 
a state of perfect tranquility. Let N Y settle with the people west of the 
mountans as they can agree, it would not concern us. 

But on the other hand if the people between Connecticut river and the 
mountains are against us, and choose rather to divide by the river, let us 
make ourselves easy without them. I think it is in the jxDwer of the people 
west of the river east of the mountains to turn the scale for their own 
benefit and ours. We have been taking pains to serve them as well as 
ourselves. They will never be allowd east of the river, nor N H west 
of the mountains. Nature sets the mountains for the boundary: And if 
Vermont shd. be annihilated or rather disallowd as a state N. Y. will 
have a share of it, that is, the part west of the mountains.* 



464. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia March 19th, 1782. 
Sir, 

The Motion we made for Congress to accept the Beef, that might be 
supplied by the State for the southern Army above her former quota of 
that article, in discount for its value in the last Quota, is referrd to the 
Superintendant of Finance, who has not yet reported upon it.^ If our 
accounts are true, touching the evacuation of Charlestown, which is said 
to have taken place on the 24th ult. it will hardly be an object for us to 
press, considering the precedent it will establish 

Our Colleague Mr. Randolph, who left this place for Richmond yester- 
day, will give you a more particular account of the contents of our latest 
Dispatches, and of the proceedings here, than it is proper for us to com- 
mit to Paper.' 



* See no. 460, ante. 
[464] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Jones, and Lee) ; Cal. Va. 
State Papers, III. 103. 

2 See nos. 442, 459, ante. The motion referred to is in the Journals, Mar. 15. The 
delegates wrote to Governor Harrison Mar. 26 : " The Superintendant of Finance informs 
us, that he has sent a proposition to our Executive which he conceives will answer the 
object of our motion relative to the supply of Beef" {Cal. Va. State Papers, III. iii). 
See Harrison to Robert Morris Mar. 27 {Official Letters, III. 184), replying to Morris's 
letter of Feb. 26; also his letter to the President of Congress Mar. 29 {ibid., p. 185), which 
was read in Congress Apr. 8. 

8 See the Journals, Mar. 21, where is inserted by the editor an undated motion of 
Madison, seconded by Jones, respecting Jay's negotiations as related by him in his letter 
of Oct. 3 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 738). This same motion appears regularly 
recorded in the Journals under Apr. 30, as an adopted resolution. The Journals do not 
record definitely the date when Jay's letter was received, but in a letter to Randoli^ 
May 7 ( ? ) , no. 498, post, Madison mentions that it was received " the day preceding your 
departure". The present letter appears to fix Randolph's departure as on the i8th (see 
however no. 462, note 2, ante), therefore Jay's letter was probably received on the 17th. 
Cf. the report, drawn by Madison, in the Journals, Mar. 20. See also nos. 480, 49s. 498, 
505, 572, t>o^- 



March, 1782 319 

465. Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Phila: 19th Mar: 1782. 
D'rS'r, 

I know not whether it is my turn regularly to answer you this week 
or not as your Letter was to Mr. Madison,^ but be that as it may I shall 
take the liberty of troubling you with a Letter. The claims of the people 
of Vermont still remain unsettled, and a change must take place in the 
opinion of some States, before they can be acknowledged independent and 
admitted into the Union, even upon the supposition that the consent of 
nine States is sufficient for the purpose, the fair construction, however, 
of the confederation seems to require the assent of the whole, the sense 
of Congress cannot be long delayed on this business, if it be true what 
we are lately told, that the people of that Territory have dissolved their 
Union with what is called the wings, that is, encroachments upon the 
States of N. York and N. Hampshire witho't the original demands of 
those people, and which by resolutions of Congress of the 20th of Augt. 
last they were required as a preliminary to their Independence and ad- 
mission into the union of the States to relinquish, this proposition they 
at first rejected, but it seems they have since relented, if our information 
is true, their refusal however is considered by many as an absolution of 
Congress from the terms then offered and left that Body at full liberty 
thereafter to abide by or depart from those terms, motives of policy 
dictated the measure in August but circumstances have since changed and 
what appeared to be necessary then, is not now so pressing. In short, 
incidents have happened since that period wch so strongly mark a hostile 
disposition in some States to invade the rights of others, that, I believe, 
it will be very difficult to obtain the concurrence of nine to give them inde- 
pendence and privileges of the Union, at least before some great political 
questions are decided respecting the united States, their individual and 
general rights.' 

In your Letter last week to Mr. Madison you seem not to approve our 
assuming any other rule of proportion in the settlem't of the public ac- 
counts than what has been already taken and that it wo'd be better to 
examine the accounts and let them lie over for final settlement according 
to the Confederation. You go upon the supposition that the proposed 
settlement is not to be final, wherein lies your mistake. It is intended to 
make a final settlem't of past expenditure between the individual States 
and the united States and between Individuals in the States and the U. 
States to the ist of January last. These transactions laying as it were in 
a chaotic state, the doubts and jealousies entertained that Congress had 
no serious design to bring them to settlement, and the relaxation and 
langour prevailing in consequence of opinions taken up that each had 
done more than its proportion, rendered it indispensably necessary to 
bring all these matters to a close, a plan was therefore proposed by the 

[465]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Jones. 

2 Pendleton's letter to Madison here referred to is doubtless that of Feb. 25, in 
Mass. Hist. Soc.. Proceedings, XIX. 147. 

3 See no. 460, note 2, ante. 



320 Continental Congress 

financier wch being considered and amended was at length agreed to by 
Congress.* The outline of which is for the States to authorize Congress 
to assume such principles for determining the quota of the respective 
States as from a consideration of all circumstances sho'd appear just and 
equitable, having regard to the abilities of the States from time to time 
in consequence of the ravages of War. the States are required to furnish 
the best information to enable Congress to adopt an equitable rule, a 
Commissioner is to be appointed for each State (not a Citizen of the 
State) to settle the accounts according to such rules as have been or shall 
be laid down by Congress, the accounts so settled to be final and conclusive 
to the above period. Where such confusion exists as in our past expendi- 
tures and such a variety of interest were necessary to be combined, it was 
very difficult to digest any mode likely to give satisfaction and content, 
perhaps the one proposed is as free from objection as any that could be 
devised and if approved by the States will ultimately produce very bene- 
ficial consequences 

466. The Massachusetts Delegates to John Avery.^ 

^. Philadelphia March 26th 1782. 

otr. 

Yesterday we received your favour, covering a Resolution of the Genl. 
Assembly of the 6 instant, directing their Delegates to solicit Congress 
to adopt speedy and effectual measures for the release of American 
Prisoners. 

Congress have not been inattentive to the Distresses of our Seamen 
who are in the power of the Enemy, and have directed Letters to be 
wrote to S'r Henry Clinton remonstrating against his conduct towards 
them ; and we have now Commissioners gone to Elizabethtown, who are 
directed, among other things, to endeavour to obtain an enlargement or 
at least a better treatment of our people who are prisoners with the 
Enemy.^ Letters have also been wrote to our Ministers in Europe, on the 
same subject. If these measures do not answer our purpose. Congress 
will, I trust, make such Retalliation as will force the Enemy to a more 
humane conduct 

467. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

j~. ^. Philadelphia, 26th March, 1782. 

I have reed, your favour of the 12th instant informing me that Vermont 
had receded from their late encroachments. I had heard this frequently 

* See the Journals, Feb. 20 ; cf. nos. 423, 430, 438, 446, ante. 

[466]^ Mass. Arch., CCIV. 81 (signed "Geo Partridge In behalf of the Delegates"). 
2 See Washington's letter to Congress Feb. 18 ( Writings, ed. Ford, IX. 443, 
ed. Sparks, VIII. 239). On the same day Congress authorized Washington to negotiate 
a cartel (see the Journals, Feb. 23), and on Mar. 11 Gen. Henry Knox and Gouverneur 
Morris were appointed commissioners for the purpose. The meeting with the British com- 
missioners at Elizabethtown, N. J., was set for Mar. 28. The negotiations came to an end 
Apr. 19, and Knox and Morris reported the proceedings to Washington Apr. 21 and 22. 
The numerous papers pertaining to the negotiations are in the Washington Papers. Cf. 
no. 479, post, also the Journals, Apr. 29, Aug. 3, Sept. 18, 1781. 

[467]! A^. H. State Papers, X. 484. 



March, 1782 321 

by common report ; but there is no official account of it in Congress, The 
Com'tee upon your letter about the 5 million dollers and quota of the 
8 million have made a report plumply against us.^ 

I have got a day assigned for debate which is next Monday. As I sup- 
pose we shall soon hear from Vermont in a manner that will end that 
tedious business, I hope to see you in May. There is no news from 
Charlestown since my last.^ Gen. Washington is gone to North river. 

468. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia, March 26, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

A letter has been lately received from you by the President of Congress, 
accompanied by a bundle of papers procured from the Cherokees by 
Colonel Campbell. As it appears that these papers were transmitted at 
the request of the late President, it is proper to apprize you that it was 
made without any written or verbal sanction, and even without the knowl- 
edge of Congress ; and not improbably with a view of fishing for discoveries 
which may be subservient to the aggressions meditated on the territorial 
rights of Virginia. It would have been unnecessary to trouble you with 
this, had it not appeared that Colonel Campbell has given a promise of 
other papers; which if he should fulfil, and the papers contain any thing 
which the adversaries of Virginia may make an ill use of, you will not 
suffer any respect for the acts of Congress to induce you to forward 
hither.' 

469. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).* 

Philadelphia March 27th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Having as We heretofore informed You, defeated the Attempt to 
saddle our State with the Report a Copy of which We some Time since 
had the Honor to inclose You, Matters now remain open for something 
to be done, on our part. For this purpose We are anxiously waiting for 
the Result of the Legislative deliberations of our State on so interesting 
a Subject, to serve as a Guide to our Steps. Our Opponents in Congress 
are now lying perdu, waiting a Change in the Representation of the South- 

2 See the Journals, Apr. i, and no. 455, ante, nos. 478, 483, post. 

3 Oliver Wolcott wrote to Mrs. Wolcott the same day : " I think it not improbable 
that the Enemy will before long evacuate Charlestown and bring that Garrison to N York." 
Respecting the time of his probable return to Connecticut Wolcott remarks : " I think that 
the Gentlemen who are to attend the next Summer will not be here before the latter end 
of April. I have desired them to be here earlier but do not by what I hear from them 
expect them sooner" (Conn. Hist. Soc., Wolcott Papers, III. 64). See no, 477, note 2, post. 

[468]! Writings of Madison, I. 181 ; Papers, I. 116. 

2 No mention of Jefferson's letter or the receipt of these papers appears in the 
Journals. In the letter from the delegates to Governor Nelson Sept. 4, 1781 (passage 
omitted from no. 293, ante), is a request for a copy of the treaty between Colonel (Christian 
and the Cherokees in I77S- 

[469]^ N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4404. 



322 Continental Congress 

ern States, which will soon happen, and We know not but to our disad- 
vantages. I have prepared a set of Resolutions turning- on general Princi- 
ples, and in themselves almost self evident, calculated to stand as a Barrier 
agt. the next attempt in favor of the Grants, and which I shall move as 
soon, as I can, after having waited a few days longer for some official 
Tidings from the State ^ 

We have had several strange Manoeuvres for the promoting of General 
Knox to the Rank of Major General which have at Length succeeded. 
By this Step Brigadiers Clinton, Moultrie and Mcintosh (his Seniors in 
Office) are disgraced. I was one of the strenuous opposers to this Pro- 
motion ; the Particular Movements for and against which You will clearl)' 
see, and discover the Tempers of the several Members on the Occasion, 
from the Journals, a Copy of which, if the Mail does not close too soon 
I will here inclose You ; otherwise I shall send it by the next Opportunity. 
I am as sensible as any Man living of General Knox's Merit. But in my 
Opinion no Merit whatsoever can justify the Promotion of one officer 
in a Way that disgraces another. It is a Measure unjust in itself. It is 
moreover highly impolitic as it gives general Uneasiness to the Army. In 
this Case there are three Brigadiers disgraced, and probably three States 
affronted. But General Knox, it is said, at the Promotion of Brigadier 
Deportail over his Head was greatly disobliged, and would have retired 
from the Service had he not been promoted, That his Services cannot be 
dispensed with. That his promotion therefore became indispensible. All 
this may be true ; but his Promotion however necessary should have been 
attended with the like Promotion of his Seniors who, as there are already 
a Surplus of Majors General, might have been honorable retired or been 
laid aside on half pay.^ .... 

470. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

[March 29, 1782.] 

.... Having foiled our adversaries in the attempt to carry into 
Execution the Report of the Committee of " last to establish the 

Independence of the Grants within the bounds therein limited we most 
impatiently wait for the Concurrent Resolutions of our Legislature. For 
tho' nothing has since been attempted agt. us; yet we know their Advo- 
cates only wait for a Change of Members to renew the attempt. This 
Change will shortly happen. We therefore wish for those Resolutions 
and every Conciliatory Step of our Legislature that we may anticipate 
the renewal of the Subject. 

In a Conference with the Secretary at War he advised that the State 
should exercise the authority reserved to them in the Articles of Con- 

2 See nos. 460, 463, 465, ante, 470, 472, 476, post. 

•■' See the Journals, Jan. 9, Feb. 28, Mar. 22, also no. 470, post. 
[470]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 429 (draft, in Scott's writing; endorsed by 
him, "29th March 1782") ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 214. 

2 The reference is to the report in the Journals, Mar. i. With regard to the date 
of its presentation see nos. 443 (note 3), 452 (note 2), ante. 



April, 1782 323 

federation by appointing Col. Willet to his former Continental Rank, 
which he said had been done in other Instances, and assured us that on 
being certified of this, he will do every Thing necessary on his part, and 
will by Letter to the Comm'r in Chief (which he flatters himself will take 
Effect) indeavor to have the Command on our Frontiers so arranged, 
if it be requested by our Governm't, that Col. Willet shall have no superior 
Init a General Officer in that department of Service.' 

Col. Vanschaick's affair is also in good Train with the Secry. He 
considers him and several other Officers as greatly injured by the Pro- 
motion of General Hazen; and tho' he does not much like Brevets, he 
thinks it in the present Instance but a just Expedient to restore 
the Colonel to his Rank. Those he says are his present Sentiments, that 
Congress should either thus reinstate him, which can be done without 
any Expence to the Public; or permit him to retire on the expected 
Emoluments. This latter however we think would be a precarious de- 
I^endence; because several of the States are determined agt. an half pay 
establishment ; we shall therefore indeavor very shortly to obtain his ma- 
tured Sentiments on the former, and should they be in its favor, we will 
move it in Congress. In the Interim we should be glad to be informed 
whether, if we should not succeed, the Colonel would wish to risk retiring 
on half pay.* 

We inclose a Copy of the Journals of [March 22] on the Subject of 
Promotion to the Rank of Major General. They speak plainly for them- 
selves; and therefore need no Comment. We wish General Clinton may 
be immediately informed of them. Brigadiers Moultrie and Mcintosh who 
are both on the Spot are much mortified by the Preference they exhibit. 
They mean speedily as we are informed to signify it to Congress. We 
think they may be prevailed on to suspend this Step for a short Time; 
and should General Clinton Incline to make common Cause with them, 
we wish to be furnished by him without delay with the Means of doing 
it. a Memorial from him to Congress on the Subject may perhaps b^ 
proper.' 

The new Commissioners from the Grants are arrived and their Acces- 
sion to the Terms of August last is known, tho' not announced to Con- 
gress. It has l*»aked out that the Changes in that Country are favorable 
to Us; and that their Leaders are held in detestation. A Short Time will 
perhaps furnish Us with particulars which we shall not fail to com- 
municate." 

471. The Virginia Delegates to the Secretary at War 
(Benjamin Lincoln)/ 

^{y In Congress April ist, 1782. 

The success of recruiting in Virginia will very much depend on the 
State having Arms and Cloathing for the Men that may be raisd. We 

' See no. 457, ante. 

* See nos. 428, 434, 457, ante, and the Journals, May 21. 
'^ See no. 469, ante. 

* See no. 472, post. 

[471]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (copy) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 116. 



324 Continental Congress 

therefore beg you will inform us, what supply of these Articles the State 
may depend upon from your de]>artment.^ 

472. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia March [April] 2d 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I am this Moment come from a most animated debate in Congress; 
which produced an hasty adjournment ; and that will probably produce a 
still more animated debate to morrow. The Subject was this — Yesterday 
were laid upon the Table and read a Letter from the new Commissioners 
from the Grants to the President of Congress with a duplicate Commission 
to them and the Resolutions of the Pretended Legislature of the Grants 
releasing and relinquishing their Eastern and Western Wings in the 
Terms prescribed by the Resolutions of Congress of August last. On 
reading the Letter a Motion was made that the said Letter and papers 
together with every other paper which had been reed, by Congress Since 
the 20th Augt. last on this Subject should be committed. Upon this Ques- 
tion the Yeas and Nays were called for by Me; and the Question was 
carried for the Affirmative. A Committee of five was moved for and 
carried. And to the dishonor of the Majority four Members were balloted 
in, who have been avowed favourers, and I may say open Supporters of 
the Claim of independence by the People of the Grants, and one New 
Hampshire Delegate — All this with evident design to exclude New York 
and the Southern States from the Committee. This sinister purpose I 
mean to endeavor to elude by endeavoring to get the Committee enlarged 
to a Grand Committee to consist of a Member from each State. But to 
return to the Subject of this day's debate. On reading the Journals of 
yesterday pursuant to a standing Rule of the House they were found 
defective in this Instance to wit ; that tho' they contained a recital of the 
Letter from the Commiss'rs yet no other papers referred to by the Motion 
and resolution were entered on the Journals, Which we contended, as the 
Motion and resolution were founded not on oral but written Matters and 
the Yeas and Nays were called for, ought to have been entered in hac 
Verba; and this Diminution of the Journals was the Ground of the debate. 
I had these Reasons for insisting on the Insertion of all the Papers re- 
ferred to, to wit; the abovementioned Letter asserts that the State of 

2 Lincoln's reply (appended to this letter), dated Apr. i and addressed to "The 
Hon'ble Jos. Jones, J. Madison, A. Lee, Esq'rs " (the writers of this letter), is as follows : 

" I have this morning, Gentlemen, been honord with your favor of this date ; intimating 
your wish, to be informd what supply of Arms and Clothing the State may depend on from 
the War department. 

" On the 1st Sepr. last Congress took upon themselves the whole business of clothing 
the Army and made provision accordingly. As soon as the State of Virginia shall fix on a 
place of general rendezvous from which Recruits shall march to join the Army; an Officer 
of rank will be appointed to attend that post, to receive and forward them, to whom Qoth- 
ing and Arms will be sent, on his return, from time to time, sufficient fully to clothe and 
equip the Troops." 

See further the delegation letter of Apr. 2 {Cal. Va. State Papers, IIL 117). 

[472]! N. Y. State Lib., Ginton Papers, no. 4372. 



April, 1782 825 

Vermont had in every instance endeavored strictly to conform with the 
Resolutions of Congress; while a Letter from Mr. Chittendon reed, by 
Congress since the 20th of Augt. last, and a Resolution of their Legisla- 
ture inclosed therein, and which were omitted out of the Journals, con- 
tained an express Rejection of the Overtures made by Congress in Augt. 
last, By which not only the first abovementioned Letter was falsified, 
but the Rejection contained in the Second excluded the Grants from the 
Benefit of their after-Compliance with those Overtures. One of the papers 
omitted was the Concurrent Resolutions of our Legislature of October 
last, which have never yet been, and I wish now to have properly inserted 
in the Journals ^ — My Reason for supposing that to morrow's debate will 
be still more animated, is, that from the Want of Candor in our Opponents, 
I fear they will insist that it will be too late to morrow, to rectify the 
Journals.' In short tho' there are a respectable Minority in Congress bent 
on aiming at securing Justice to our State; yet it is evidently the fixed 
and setled purpose of the Majority to sacrifice its Rights on the Altar 
of the Independence of Vermont. As Justice is not to be expected from 
this Quarter I hope the State will do Justice to itself. Be please [d] to 
excuse the Want of transcribing as I fear the Mail will be closed. And 
believe Me tho' in haste to be with not the less Sincerity and Esteem 
Dear Governor 

Your Excellency's most obedt humble Servt 

Jno. Morin Scott. 

P. S. Please present my Compliments to Col. Varick and inform him 
I bro't his Affair before the Committee of the Week this day * 

473. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton/ 

Philada. April 2d, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

The only event with which the period since my last has enabled me to 
repay your favor of the 25th ulto.^ is the arrival of four Deputies from 

2 The Journals contain no record of a meeting of Congress on Tuesday, Apr. 2. 
As mentioned by Scott, the letter from the new Vermont commissioners was laid before 
Congress Apr. i, and a motion (by Clark of New Jersey, seconded by Scott) to refer the 
papers to a committee was carried. Scott and his colleag^ue Floyd are both recorded as 
voting against the commitment. The members of the committee are not there named, but 
its composition is shown in connection with its report Apr. 17 — Oymer, Carroll, Qark, 
Livermore, and Law. See nos. 469, 470, ante. The letter from the Vermont commis- 
sioners to the President of Congress, Mar. 31, is in Vermont Recs., II. 386; their com- 
mission, signed by Thomas Chittenden, Mar. 13, is ibid., p. 385. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 3, 4, 17, 20, May 21, and nos. 473, 476, 479, 482, 483, 483, 
486, 488, 489, post. 

* An undated report on Varick's memorial is placed in the Journals under Mar. 26 
(p. 152). The report appears to be in the writing of Noble Wimberly Jones, who was 
on the committee for the week beginning Mar. 25, but not for the week beginning Apr. r. 
If therefore the matter was not laid before the committee of the week until Apr. 2, there 
is no apparent reason why the report should have been written by Jones. 

[473] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 184; Papers, I. 116. 

2 Madison doubtless refers to Pendleton's letter of Feb. 25 (Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Proceedings, second sen, XIX. 147). Pendleton replied to this letter of Madison Apr. 15 
{ibid., p. 149). 



326 Continental Congress 

Verm't, with a plenipotentiary commission to accede to the confederacy. 
The business is referred to a Committee who are sufficiently devoted to 
the policy of gaining the Vote of Vermont into Congress. The result will 
be the subject of a future letter.^ .... 

474. Arthur Lee to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, April 8th, 1782.'' 

Dear Sir, 

.... The detection of Mr. Deane, seems not to have drawn any 
punishment nor even odium on those who countenancd and profited by 
his wickedness. Among these Dr. Franklin and Mr. R. Morris, are the 
most conspicuous. The latter was obligd to acknowledge in the News- 
papers that he was in partnership with Mr. D[eane] but pretended he 
thought him a man of honor. The Doctor by Letters of the strongest 
recommendation endeavord to deceive Congress into a renewal of their 
confidence in him, with a new and important appointment. There are 
Letters in town from Mr. Searle, late member of Congress, declaring that 
he has been repeatedly scandalizd by hearing Mr. Deane utter the abuse 
against America and France, which is containd in his intercepted Letters, 
at Dr. F[ranklin]'s table, without any reprehension from the Doctor. 
Under all these suspicions, Dr. Franklin is appointed one of the Com- 
missioners to negociate a peace, because France wills it; and Congress 
are complaisant enough to say they trust in his zeal and integrity. God 
forgive them ! 

The Fishery, I am afraid, is the object and will be the sacrifice of this 
appointment. This question will come on in Congress, and I think your 
ablest members shoud be here. But Instructions from Congress will avail 
little, if a corrupt Commissioner is entrusted with them, who certainly 
never meaning to return to this Country, will feel himself very easy about 
our reproaches, while he is enjoying in France the reward of his Treach- 
ery. I know from what passed at the Treaties we concluded, that to 
monopolize the Fishery is the object of France, and I am most sure that 
Dr. Franklin will be the instrument of effecting it. 

The Members from your State, and from Connecticut, seem desirous 
of admitting Vermont into the Confederation ; but it appears very doubt- 
ful, whether this can be done agreable to the Confederation or consistent 
with true policy. The small States, upon this precedent, may dismember 
the great ones ; or as they have an equal voice in proportioning the Quotas, 
may combine together to burthen the larger States with the whole expence. 
To acknowledge their indejjendence without giving them a voice in Con- 

3 See no. 472, ante. The " future letter " is no doubt that of Apr. 2$ (no. 489, post). 
[474] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, II. 171. 

2 Madison wrote to Randolph, in a postscript to a letter of Apr. 9 : " Col Car- 
rington will not fulfill his intentions in setting off for Virga. Doc'r Lee will set off in 
5 or 6 days and I shall accept (?) that conveyance for the proposed report. Mr. Jones will 
ffollowj the Doc'r abt. the last of this month. I hope you will allow due weight to these 
considerations in deciding on the time of your return." Library of Congress, Madison 
Papers, Ac. 1081. 



April, 1782 



32^ 



gress woud answer I conceive every purpose of attaching them to our 
cause, without hazarding our union by admitting them a Member of the 
confederation.* .... 

475. The Secretary of Congress to the President of 
Pennsylvania (William Moore).' 

Sir, 

The enclosed intelHgence was communicated to Congress on Monday 
last. For your farther information respecting the channel of Intelligence 
I beg leave to send you a letter I received on Sunday from Mr, L. Weiss. 
It is the desire of Congress that your excellency and the hon'ble Council 
would be pleased to cause enquiry to be made into this matter. - 

.\pril 9, 1782. 

476. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia April 9th, 1782. 
Dear Govr., 

The Want of more frequent Acco'ts from Gentlemen in public Character 
in our State is Matter of great Anxiety to Colonel Floyd and myself. His 
Cash being exhausted he intends to return next Week, as I, for the like 
Cause, shall be obliged to do in a few days after,- A.nd it will be with 
the greatest Reluctance. To leave the State at this critical Juncture un- 
represented is truly distressing. It will give great Pleasure to a prevailing 
Party in Congress; but it cannot probably be avoided. From the known 
disposition of the Members to whom the acquiescence of the Grants to the 
Overtures of Congress of Augt. last was referred 1 expect a Report de- 

3 See nos. 465, 469, 470, mite, 476, 478, 485, post. Pierce Butler wrote from Phila- 
delphia Apr. 5 to James Iredell of North Carolina : 

'' So greatly altered is this once august body [Congress], that as little as possible is in- 
trusted to them. And yet, among them are many individuals of the strictest honor, and 
great worth ; but, as a body, there is little dependence to be placed on them. The Northern 
interest is all prevalent ; their members are firmly united, and carry many measures dis- 
advantageous to the Southern interest. They are laboring hard to get Vermont established 
as an ittdependent State, which will give them another vote, by which the balance will 
be quite destroyed. In the midst of these great struggles between the Northern and 
Southern interests, the issue of which is of such consequence to the Carolinas and Georgia, 
your State remains totally unrepresented. Unpardonable neglect! We of the South, who 
consider ourselves as embarked in the same vessel with you, complain loudly of the 
desertion of our sister. This Vermont business is a shameful and scandalous affair. Gov- 
ernor Clinton, of the State of New York, by a meritorious vigilance, has intercepted letters 
and papers that reflect no credit on some individuals of Congress. / believe it is beyond 
a doubt that Witherspoon and some others have received large tracts of land, at least grants 
of them, from the Vermonters, to support their claim in Congress. Some inhabitants of 
this town, it is said, and generally believed, are concerned in encouraging the Vermonters 
to support their claim, even by arms." McRee, Life of Iredell, II. 9. 

[475]^ ^0- Arch., first sen, IX. 523. 

2 The intelligence referred to was information of a massacre of Indians in February 
by a party of whites at Muskingum. See Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 523-526. The Journals 
contain no mention of the matter. 

[476]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4434. 
2 See no. 457, ante. 



328 Continental Congress 

daring that the Grants have compHed with those Overtures, and recom- 
mending the Reception of their Delegates, now on the Spot, into Congress. 
Should this Event take place, there is the highest reason to fear that the 
Overtures our State have in Contemplation with those People will be 
rejected ; that they will immediately receive open Countenance and Support 
from the New England States ; and that Congress will not only abandon 
Us ; but probably reprobate, and perhaps author [ it] atively interpose, to pre- 
vent our doing ourselves Justice. 

I have the Honor to inclose to your Excellency Extracts from the 
Journals on the Receipt of the dispatches from the Grants. The Subject 
took up three or four days in warm debate. Our friends of whom You 
have already been informed exerted great Energy in our Behalf. This 
You will see from the Extracts ; which is exclusive of the animated part 
they took with Us throughout the whole debates. Thro' those they 
facilitated our Triumph, with which those Extracts are clearly marked.* 

477. Samuel Osgood to Samuel Holten.^ 

Philadelphia April 15th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

You will excuse a very short Letter this Time : for as our Friend Mr. 
Lovell will be the Bearer of it and probably find you in Boston he will 
be able to inform you of every Occurence this Way. perhaps you may be 
surprised when you hear that he has left Congress to return no more. 
I however think his Motives are Justifiable considering the Situation of 
his Family.^ Mr. Partridge intends returning in May. I shall be happy 
if the State is represented so that I can leave this Place in June 

478. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. 1 6th Ap'l 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Enclosed is a copy of a (wise) report drawn by a com'tee on the affair 
of our quota. This wisdom you may be assured I used my utmost efforts 

3 See the Journals, Apr. i, 3, 4 ; also no. 472, ante. 

[477]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 Lovell had obtained leave of absence Jan. 23 and resumed his seat Apr. 3. On 
Apr. 15 he again obtained leave of absence, in this instance with a purpose not to return. 
He was the bearer also of a letter from Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott of the same 
date, chiefly relating to the Connecticut delegation (Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, 
II. 95). From the northern border of New Jersey he wrote to Robert R. Livingston (the 
letter is dated " Ringwood Iron Works, at Leisure in a Storm April 19, 82") concerning 
the results of his labors in deciphering an intercepted letter that had been put into his hands 
before he left Philadelphia. On previous occasions he had served as decipherer extraordi- 
nary to Congress as well as the purveyor of a type of cipher which had been used to a 
considerable extent in diplomatic and other correspondence (see, for instance, no. 166, 
ante). His letter to Livingston, together with some pages of his work in deciphering the 
intercepted letter, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 51, vol. II., f. 221. Other parts of these 
same materials are ibid., no. 51, vol. I., f. 759. 

[478] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 72; Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., 
Council Corr. 



April, 1782 329 

to oppose because it is the wisdom of this world, and savours of the 
mammon of unrighteousness. It was largely debated. I made a motion 
to postpone the report to introduce the following resolution, lis, That 
66512 dollers be deducted from the quota of New Hampshire, it appear- 
ing said state was overrated that sum. I calld the yeas and nays, but it 
was determined against me. You wd have been diverted to have heard 
the many wise tho very different reasons given against making the de- 
duction. The principal and most oratorical reasoning was this, that the 
8 mil'n dollers wd be thereby diminished, unless whatever should be de- 
ducted could be add'd to the quota of some other state : and no state was 
willing to take it. I have seen a debate in a genl. Court (to compare small 
things with great) when a town has applied to get part of its tax taken 
of, not unlike the present. 

The affair is not yet settled. Whether the report will be reed, or undergo 
some alterations or be totally rejected I know not. I intend to act my 
part properly, if I can.- Vermont is not yet settled.' As soon as these 
two things are dispatched one way or another I shall resign my seat in 
congress to return home as my family and circumstances loudly call for 
me. The court no doubt will forward the new delegates as soon as they 
can. . Tis probable I shall leave this place by the first of May. 

479. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Ap'l i6th, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... The principal matter which hath lately come before us is an 
Act of the State of Vermont, complying with the resolutions of Congress 
of August last, and appointing delegates to represent them in that body. 
It and other papers relative to Vermont were and stand committed. What 
the final result will be we cannot undertake to say. Some States will oppose 
their being admitted into the federal union because it might affect the 
balance of power by throwing an aditional weight into the eastern Scale ; 
and because it might be a precedent for augmenting the number of the 
confederated States already too large. 

They will be greatly embarrassed by the resolution of August ; but they 
will endeavour to avoid the promise strongly implied in that resolution 
by opposing the former non compliance of the State of Vermont with 
the conditions on which that promise is founded, to their present com- 
pliance.^ The report of a committee on cessions of Western lands to the 
United States, which is also a matter of importance, and which hath long 
laid upon the table, is this day taken up ; but we believe will not be speedily 
determined.^ .... 

2 See the Journals, Apr. i, May 22; also nos. 456, 467, ante, and no. 483, post. 

3 See nos. 472, 476, ante, the Journals, Apr. 17, and nos. 479, 483, 485, 488, post. 
[479]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 89; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 

Cong., p. 366. 

2 See no. 478, ante. 

* See the Journals, Apr. 16. 18, and nos. 480, 485-487, 489, 493, post. 

25 



330 Continental Congress 

Our Commissioners have met those ap]X)intefl hy the British for settHng 
the terms of a cartel ; but we know not how far they have proceeded in 
that business. 

We have for some time past had under consideration measures for 
relieving the distresses of our seamen in captivity, but have waited for 
the result of the conference, in order to come to a determination.* .... 

480. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

^ ^,. Philada. April i6th 1782.* 

Your favor of the 24 of March with a letter inclosed for Mr. Marbois 
came to hand yesterday.^ 1 entreat that you will not suffer the chance 
of a speedy and final determination of the territorial question by Congress 
to affect your purpose of tracing the title of Virga. to her claims. It is 
in the first place very uncertain when a determination will take place, even 
if it takes place at all ; and in the next it will assuredly not be a final one, 
unless Virga. means to be passive and silent under aggression on her 
rights. In every event therefore it is proper to be armed with every argu- 
ment and document that can vindicate her title.* .... 

481. Edward Telfair to James Jacksok.^ 

p. ^.^ Philadelphia, 19th April, 1782. 

I received the favor of your Letter by Colo. McMurphy ^ and am 
obliged to you for the information contained in it. The Capture of Cloth- 

* See no. 466, ante, the Journals, July 2 (p. 366 n.), and no. 556, post. 

[480] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 186; Papers, I. 119. 

- Some passages from a letter of Secretary Livingston to Jay, Apr. 16, relative to 
Jay's letter of Oct. 3, 1781, and the Spanish negotiations (see no. 464, note 3, ante), 
deserve to be quoted here : 

" Returning from an excursion to the state of New York I found your Letter of Octr. 
which on account of my absense had been committed to a committee of Congress. They 
have shewn me the report — it will try their sentiments on a very interesting point if it 
goes thro' but as they may not suddenly come to a resolution and I have just heard of a 
vessel which will sail in two hours for Cadiz I avail myself of it to inform you that your 
conduct thro the whole of your negotiation has been particularly acceptable to congress. 
The condition you have annexed to the proposed session [sic] is extreamly well calculated 
to hasten the Spanish ministry and I think ought to be adhered to for unless some im- 
portant advantage can be gained by it the claim with the means we have of enforcing it is 
too valuable to be relinquished. [Here follow at some length his reasons.] 

" You will therefore persist in the line in which you now are declaring explicetly that 
the sessions you propose are only dictated by your desire to make early and vigorous 
efforts against the common enimy, that if they are not accepted so soon and upon such 
terms as to afford you a prospect of obtaining this desirable end you will not consider 
your offers as binding upon you. I am persuaded that in this I speak the sentiments of 
Congress and you may deliver them as such. Your never having spoke of the answer of 
France, Spain and G. B : to the proposals of the mediators makes me doubt whether you 
have seen them — that of Spain I have not seen. If I can get the others copied and cyphered 
before this vessel sails I will send them to you, if not I will enclose so much of the answer 

of France as relates to Spain. I see and you will see the use that may be made of it " 

N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Livingston (draft, with an enciphered copy of the letter). 
3 The letter to Madison is in Jefferson's IVritings, III. 52. 

* There is a further discussion of the subject in this letter. See no. 429, ante, and 
Madison to Randolph Apr. 9 (Writings, I. 185) ; also nos. 487-489, post. 

[481]'^ Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 732 (addressed, "Colo. James Jackson 
AuKU-sta Cieorgia favored by Colo. McMurphy"). 

- Col. Daniel McMurphy. 



April, 1782 331 

ing on the one hand and the conduct of Capt. Gillian on the other has 
reduced Congress to great difficulties in this Article.^ At any rate it will 
be well for the State to appropriate funds towards her own internal su]>- 
port for it is not reasonable to expect much assistance from Congress at 
a time when the subject of requisitions from the States is one of her 
great objects and must continue so during the War. you have seen a 
Little of this by being here, even in a time of the circulation of Paper 
Currency, and since the "reduction of it, you may easily suggest additional 
difficulties. 

482. Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia April 21, 1782. 
My dear friend, 

.... The Session of the Assembly of Virginia in May, calls me 
from Congress for a month or two to attend my duty there. Indeed I 
do not see of what material use my attendance here can be, where I can 
only lament what I cannot prevent, and make vain efforts to redeem an 
infatuated Majority from the bondage of folly and private interest.^ For 
what can be expected from an Assembly in which a Member is allowed 
to sit, who is avowedly an Agent for the Enemies to our cause and 
Country, an Insolvent, and a profligate Adventurer. I mean Mr. Samuel 
Wharton.^ This Man, Sir, that in a Petition on the table of Congress 
declares himself insolvent, not only sits and votes, but treats the Members 
with magnificent Dinners. I am perfectly persuaded that it is the interest 
of the Companies which this Man is an Agent for and a member of to 
reduce us to the domination of G. Britain, because their Members being 
chiefly British and of great influence they woud by that means be secure 
of obtaining the Lands which it is impossible they shoud do while we 
are independent. And as these Agents are using every art to seduce us 
and to sow dissention among the States, I think they are more dangerous 
than the Enemy's Arms. Every Motion relative to Vermont and the 
Cessions of the other States is directed by the interests of these Companies. 
I have in vain movd for a purifying declaration from each member that 
he is not concerned in them. The Motion was evaded by three days 
chicane, and remains undecided.* 

As to Vermont, I am clear we have no power to admit them into the 
confederation, and I am doubtful of the pKjlicy of it, if the power were 
unquestionable. The small States are already combining to dismember 
the large Ones. The addition of another will be a dangerous accession, 
and the disposal of property in quotaing each being by Votes not by 

2 See nos. 272, 274, 341, 344, ante; also the Journals, May 7, June 21, Sept. 18, 
Nov. I. 

[482] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Lee is recorded as voting on Saturday, Apr. 20, and does not again appear in the 
record until June 27. 

3 A sketch of Samuel Wharton is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 1. 608, and in 
Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

* Lee's motion is in the Journals, Apr. 18. The Journals contain no record of 
further debate Apr. 19 and 20, but as the question of the cessions came up on the i6th 
the three days may include the i6th and 17th. See nos. 479, 480, ante, 487-489, post. 



332 Continental Congress 

interest, it will enable the small States to throw the whole burthen of the 
war upon the large Ones. But your Delegates do not think with me, which 
I lament. Sure I am that with the admission of this little State the 
confederation will end; its present inequality being as much as it can 
bear." .... 

483. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia April 22nd, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The affair of Vermont is put by for the present, and their agents 
are gone home.^ The report concerning our quota of the 8 mil'n dollers 
is committed to another committee.^ I hope it will be well considered 
and set right. If that was got over. I should venture to resign my seat 
in congress ; as there is great necessity of my paying a little attention to 
my own business.* .... 

484. Edmund Randolph to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Pettus's April 22, 1782. 
Sir, 

I yesterday delivered to Mr. Webb the cypher, prepared for the corre- 
spondence between the executive and the delegates of Virginia in Congress. 
It is formed upon the principles of the French cypher, and may, I believe, 
be said to be inscrutable.' .... 

I was instructed by my brethren in the delegation to obtain access to 
the entries of the council before the revolution. A report is prepared for 
congress in the form of an instruction to the ministers of the united 
states, who are to negotiate peace, in which the aflFair of western territory 
is pretty fully discussed. But we supposed, that the subject would receive 
considerable illustration, by consulting those entries.^ With the per- 
mission of the executive therefore I will collect such information from 
them, as applies to the present case 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 17, 20, and nos. 476, 478, ante, 483, 487-489, post. 
[483] 1 N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, X. 146. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 17, and no. 479, ante ; cf. nos. 487-489, post. 

3 See nos. 455, 467, 478, ante. The reference to a new committee is not recorded 
in the Journals. The report as entered in the Journals, Apr. i, was agreed to May 22. 

* There are further remarks on the subject. Cf. no. 478, ante, and no. 491, post. 
[484] iVa. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 133. 

2 See no. 442, ante. This " Chart of Cyphers " is in the Virginia State Library, 
Executive Papers. It runs to 846 numbers, assigned to promiscuously arranged words, 
syllables, and letters. This cipher, which appears to have been first used in the delegation 
letter of Apr. 23 (no. 487, post) and was long used in the official correspondence of the 
delegates with the governor, and to some extent among themselves as well, is generally 
designated as the "official cypher". Beginning July 16 (see no. 555, post) Madison and 
Randolph employed for a few months a cipher of a different type, although occasionally 
using both types of cipher in the same letter. See this editor's note on " Ciphers of the 
Revolutionary Period ", Am. Hist. Rev., XXII. 329. 

8 The report to which Randolph refers is recorded in the Journals under Aug. 20, 
1782. See nos. 597, 599. Post. 



April, 1782 333 

485. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia April 23rd, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... I have the Honor to inclose You a Copy of the Report of the 
Committee of five, and the Proceedings thereon. Every congressional 
Step on the Subject of the Grants is marked with the most evident 
Partiality of a Majority in favor of the Revolters ; and against our State. 
This naturally occasions very animated Debates; in which we are faith- 
fully supported by the friendly States. It really grieves Me that the Want 
of Money will oblige Me in a few days to abandon a Cause which I have 
so much at Heart. This however must infallibly be the Case, if a fresh 
Supply should not speedily arrive. But I have so repeatedly wrote in this 
Strain, that I shall henceforth be silent on that Head forever ; and submit, 
if I should not be supplied in a few days, to the mortifying Necessity 
of abandoning my Seat in Congress.^ 

When the Business of the Grants will be resumed I know not. But I 
am determined if enabled to Stay here, not to let it sleep long. I suppose 
however our adversaries mean to appear to dream over it, until We rouse 
them. This Conclusion I draw from the departure of the plenipoes of 
Vermont who have, without my Knowledge obtained a Copy of the in- 
closed Report; to enable them, I suppose to make a popular Use of it, 
in the Country; and excite a revival in the Minds of People, of their 
declining disposition in favor of Independence.^ 

Since I had last the Honor of writing to You, the long dormant Report 
on the Proffered western Cessions has been taken up. When the Question 
shall be put Massachusetts and Connecticut will doubtless be agt. Us, on 
their ridiculous Claim to extend to the South Seas. When the Report 
was taken up, we had warm debates, not on that Part of it which concerns 
our State; (for it reports fully in favor of our Cession) but on that 
Part of it which respects the Conditional Cession by Virginia. By the 
Illness of the President of Congress, Maryland is unrepresented, which 
was not the Case, when the Report was made the Order of the day. For 
this Reason the Business is postponed without day, to allow Time for the 
President's Recovery. This delay we thought it prudent to give into : as 
we have sufficient Evidence that Maryland will vote in favor of that 
Part of the Report which concerns our State. And I flatter myself that 
the Result will be an Acceptance of our Cession. I know not. Sir, whether 
You have ever been furnished with a Copy of this Report. Should it not 
be the Case, and You would be kind enough to inform Me of it, I will, 
if my speedy departure should not Prevent Me, do myself the Honor 
of inclosing a Copy of it for your Use.* 

[485]^ N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4459. 

- See no. 514, post. 

3 The report is in the Journals, Apr. 17. See nos. 479, 482, 483, ante, 486, 488, 489, 
post. Aside from an effort of Scott May 21 to have certain acts of the New York legisla- 
ture referred to a special committee, the Vermont question was not again taken up until 
Nov. s. 

* See no. 479, note 3, ante. 



334 Continental Congress 

The concurrent Resolutions of the Legislature of our State came to 
hand very unopportunely, A Report being then depending on a like 
Request in behalf of Connecticut, clogged with a Proviso in the Report, 
that the request be complied with, on Condition of their first filling up 
their continental Battalions. Their deficiency is great. It amounts to 
upwards of 1400 Men, by the last returns in the War office; which is 
but one half of their Quota. They moved for striking out the Proviso, 
and substituting a Proposition in its stead. In the Course of the debate 
a Copy of their Act for filling up their Line was introduced, with a round 
assertion that it had made effectual Provision for filling up their Line; 
tho' when it came to be examined, it enacted no more than a Fine of 
£15 for delinquencies, and a draft in the last resort, for a short Service 
till the fall. This, with other Matters I took some pains to collect, con- 
vinced Me that they intended to apply their proposed ten Companies 
towards filling Up their Line. This was thoroughly seen thro' by the 
Majority; and the whole Report was rejected. We must therefore bring 
on some general Plan, which will refer to all the States; as there is no 
Reason to hope for a special discrimination in our Favor. In the Mean 
Time, your Excellency's known Zeal and Ardor, in compleating our Line, 
and providing for the defence of our Frontiers, would render it impertinent 
in Me, to urge the Necessity of the utmost dispatch as to both." .... 

486. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton),^ 

Philadelphia April 23d, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... A Report of a Committee of 5 on the application of the Com- 
missioners from the pretended State of Vermont, is now on the Table; 
the purport of it is ; that as those people have Complied with the Resolves 
of Congress of the 20th of August last that Congress Should Now Re- 
ceive them Into the union. But as the Sentiments of this house now 
Stands, I think they cannot Carry nine States for the Report. We are 
Anxious to know what Laws our Legislature has passed Respecting the 
Grants at their last meeting, and your Excellencys opinion of their probable 
Eflfects. 

The Question for Accepting the Session made by our State, to the 
LInited States, of the Land to the Westward is now under the Considera- 
tion of Congress, and will I exjiect be Determined in a few Days and 
from what I Can Collect of the Sence of the house It will be agreed to, 
and I believe at the Same time the Cession made by Virginia will not be 
accepted it being Cloged with Some very Disagreable Conditions, besides 
Reserving to themselves an unreasonable Extent of Country which it 
is thought by many they have no Just Claim to. 

for the News I must Refer you to the Inclosed papers, 

" See the Journals, Apr. 19. Governor Trumbull's letter and the representation 
from the inhabitants of the western country were committed Mar. 4. Cf. nos. 490, 508, post. 
[486]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4460. 



April, 1782 836 

487. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philada. April 23d, 1782. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's favor of the 12th came to hand yesterday.- There 
is at present no Delegate here from N. Carolina. As soon as one arrives, 
we shall apprize him of the want of Commissions suggested by you 

We have again endeavored to obtain from Congress some explicit 
decision on the territorial cession of Virginia that the assembly may not 
again be left in uncertainty on that subject. The sickness of the Presidt. 
which suspended the Vote of Maryland furnished a pretext for jwstpon- 
ing the business which we judged it prudent to yield to. As soon as he 
returns to Congress which will probably be in a few days, we shall renew 
our proposition and continue to urge it till we obtain in some form or 
other such evidence of the purpose of Congress as will be satisfactory 
to the State.^ 

Early in the last year a plan was formed by the Courts of Vienna and 
Petersburg for bringing about a general pacification under their mediation. 
The preliminary articles which were proposed with this view to the bel- 
ligerent powers are copied in the inclosed paper No. 2.* Congress have 
just received from [the minister of France some informal communica- 
tions] " relative to [the] is [sue] of this [pacific] experiment. Among 
[them] is [the answer of the British court given] in [June last.] It 
[explicitly] and [emphatically rejects] that part of the [plan] which 
[relates] to the [negotiation between her] and [the colonies] and [guaran- 
ties the result] as [incompatible] with [the relation] of [subjects] to 
their [sovereign] and [the] essential [interests] of [the empire ; alleging] 
at the same time that a great [part] of [the Americans are disposed] to 
[return] to their [allegiance] and [that such step] would [furnish the 
rebel chiefs with fresh means] of [nourishing the rebellion] and [con- 
firming] their [usuri)ed au]tho[rity. The final answer] of [the mediating 
courts] professes [great impartiality and] delicacy [toward the beligerent 
parties, adheres] to [the expediency] of the [first plan], and [hopes] 
that it may [still become.] under more favourable [circumstances, the 
basis] of [a general pacification.] 

[487]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones) ; Cal. 
Va. State Papers, III. 136. 

2 Harrison's letter of Apr. 12 is in Official Letters, IIL 195. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 15, 18, May l, 6; cf. nos. 479, 480, ante, 488, 489, post. 

<The enclosure ("paper No. 2"), found with this letter in the Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers, is a copy in French, by Madison, of "Articles preliminaire de la paix ". 
For some remarks upon the preliminary articles of peace proposed by the mediating courts 
of Russia and Austria, and the answers thereto, see no. 130, note 2, ante. The passage 
in cipher aims in particular to summarize the "verbal answer" of Great Britain (see 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Curr., IV. 446, 864). See also Luzerne to Washington Apr. 13 
(tbid., V. 302). The Journals do not record the communication of the "verbal answer" 
to Congress at this time. 

^ The words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 484, note 2, ante. 



336 Continental Congress 

488. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Apl, 23d 1782. 
D'r Sir, 

Congress have received from [the minister] some informal communi- 
cations relative to the issue of [the proposed mediation] of [Vienna and 
Petersburg]. The [answer] of [the British court] to [the proposed (?) 
preliminary articles] is [among them].^ .... 

The Committee on the last application from Vermont have reported 
fully in their favor. The consideration of the report will not be called 
for however till the pulse of nine States beats favorably for it. This is 
so uncertain that the agents have returned. The recognition of the Inde- 
pendence of Vermont is not fully stated in the report as a resolution 
antecedent went to authorizing a committee to treat with them on the 
terms of their admission. You will know the object of this arrangement.' 



489. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Apl. 23d, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Vermont and the Western lands are still the themes which exer- 
cise our politics within doors. The Committe to whom the last applica- 
tion of the former to be admitted into the Confederacy was referred have 
according to expectation, reported that the measure is warranted by the 
Articles of Union required by the engagements of Congress to them and 
expedient in itself. The true secret is that the Vote of Vermont is wished 
for as an auxiliary agst. the Western claims of Virga. Some of the small 
States may indeed wish for it also as an auxiliary to their party, but no 
other motive can prevail with D. and M.' Some of the E. States which 
are anxious for the admission of Vermont see this and impede the adjust- 
ment of Western boundaries on the ground of the Cessions, lest that 

[488]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. lo8l ; Writings, I. i88; Papers, I. I2i. 
2 The words in square brackets are in cipher, the code used being that which had 
just been transmitted to the governor (see no. 484, ante) and hereafter designated as the 
" official cypher ". The word " proposed " in the phrase " the proposed preliminary 
articles " is a conjecture. The margin of the letter is obscured by being pasted into the 
volume, and all of the cipher at this point that can be made out with certainty is " 56 ". 
The conjecture is that the number is 561, which is the cipher for "pro". 

The passage omitted at this point (which is principally in cipher) is nearly the same 
as the enciphered passage in the letter of the delegates of the same date (no. 487, ante). 

Elias Boudinot wrote to Lewis Pintard Apr. 23 : " We were yesterday amused by an 
Acct. in an Eastern Paper, that a Treaty has been perfected between Holland, France 
and America, but Letters are not so late, but have a gcxxi Complection." Hist. Soc. of Pa., 
Boudinot Papers, H. loi. 

8 See no. 489, post. On the same day that this letter was written Edward Rutledge 
wrote from South Carolina to Arthur Middleton : " I am very glad to find that you have 
put a negative on the Vermonters : it is abominable that they should ever have given so 
much trouble. But the fault is at the Door of Congress, where they have been suffered 
to grow into Consequence." There follow other caustic remarks concerning Vermont and 
Congress. S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVH. 15. 

[489]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Madison Papers. 
2 Delaware and Maryland. 



April, J782 337 

event should be followed by. a secession of those 2 States. The radical 
impediment however is the influence of the land companies. We have in 
the course of the week past very sensibly experienced this influence.' As 
no answer had yet been given to the Cession of Virga. and the Legislature 
is shortly to meet, the Delegates thought it proper and accordingly pro- 
posed that the determination of Congress on that subject should without 
delay be come into. Every artifice that could perplex the case was im- 
mediately exerted, and it is extremely contingent whether we shall be 
able to obtain an explicit answer to our reasonable request. We shall 
however continue to press it till Congress take some step which will either 
directly or indirectly, positively or negatively decide on the case and let 
the State know on what ground it is to form its measures.* .... 

490. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelp'a. 29th April, 1782. 
5'tV, 

Your Excellency's letter of the [21st] day of February last, inclosing 
the Acts of the Assembly respecting the paying and subsisting at the 
general expense ten company s proposed to be raised by the State, was 
reed, by Congress, Upon which a Committee was appointed to take the 
matter into consideration, with an instruction to con f err with the Com- 
mander in Chief. This Committee, after a longer delay than might have 
been expected, brot in a report. That it was the opinion of the Commander 
in Chief that the State of Connecticut was in similar circumstances to 
that of N. York (who had been allowed militia regiments at the continental 
expence), and thereupon they reported. That the ten companys should 
be paid and subsisted at the expence of the States, but annexed a proviso 
that it should be upon condition that the State should first fill up their 
line in the army. When the matter came before Congress, we observed 
that the proviso would defeat (if agreed to) every benefit which the 
State might otherwise expect from the resolution, for if the State should 
fail of furnishing every recruit, a circumstance which it was most un- 
reasonable to expect, as no line since the war, nor any army ordained to 
consist of a definite number, ever was compleat, the proviso therefore 
might be considered as impossible in the performance. The propriety of 
this objection seemed to be very generally admitted. 

But as we were sensible that the subject would meet with considerable 
opposition, and that much stress would be laid upon the increase of officers 
beyond the proportion of the privates, and that no troops ought to be 
at the general expence but such as were altogether under the orders of the 
Commander in Chief, and as we had an intire confidence in his wisdom 
and justice, we offered an amendment to the proviso — That no more 
officers should be paid and subsisted than in proportion to the overpluss 
number of the non commission officers and privates, computing both those 

8 Concerning Vermont see nos. 483, 485, 486, 488, ante, 493, 494, 508, post. 
* See nos. 480, 485-487, ante, 493, 498, 505, post. 
[490] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 336 (signed by Wolcott and Law). 



338 Continental Congress 

of the line of the army and the new levies, and that the ten companys 
should be under the orders of the Commander in Chief, to operate any- 
where within the United States. Other gentlemen offered amendments 
to that which we proposed, without any material variance. On these 
amendments, which were essentially the same, votes were taken, but none 
were agreed to ; on one of them the question was lost by a single vote of 
a State which was divided. The question was then put upon the original 
resolution and rejected. 

The objections against the application were, that should Congress com- 
ply with it, others of a similar nature would be made; that if the lines of 
the army were compleat, which ought to be insisted upon, such extra aid 
would be unnecessary; that the condition of the finances would not admit 
of new demands; that the adoption of such a measure would seem to 
exclude the idea of making the exertions of particular States for their 
own defence an object of publick charge, except in cases which had been 
specially provided for by Congress. We observed that if any other State 
was equally exposed, which but very few were, they would merit an 
equal protection; that our experience must compel conviction that the 
lines would not be full, and that we proposed no expence in support of 
officers but in proportion to the number of privates ; that the State, ex- 
posed as it was, ought not to be considered as able to furnish the pecuniary 
aid required, in case she must be at the sole expence of her own protection ; 
and that the question was not, wheither all the expence of individual 
States for their defence should be made a common charge, but who in the 
present case ought to pay it in the first instance. We represented the con- 
dition of the State, and compared its situation and the protection it reed 
with those of others, but were sorry to find that our efforts to support 
a measure which to us appeared reasonable was not attended with more 
success." .... 



491. Samuel Livermore to the President of Congress.^ 

Philadelphia 29th April 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Having seasonably notified the state of New hampshire that I should, 
with their approbation, resign my seat in Congress about the first of May : 
and the state having chosen other delegates to represent them in Congress, 
I have this day sent my resignation to the President of said state, and 
can therefore no longer consider myself as invested with the powers of 
a delegate in Congress. - 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 19, and no. 485, ante. The conference with the com- 
mander-in-chief, which is not mentioned in the Journals, was doubtless had in March, 
during Washington's sojourn in Philadelphia. 

In the close of the letter the delegates mention the imminent departure of Mr. Wolcott, 
the delay of Mr. Law's return, and request the governor to " accelerate the other gentle- 
men to come forward ". 

[491]' Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 319. 

2 The resignation was probably not unconnected with the vacancy on the Court of 
Appeals. See no. 456, ante. 



May, 17S2 88» 

492. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. April 30th, 1782. 

Sir, 

We have not the honor of acknowledging any letter from your Excel- 
lency by Yesterday's [)ost. 

Congress received yesterday some [supplemental communications] 
through the channel mentioned in our last. They speak on the part of 
[our ally much regret at the thinness] of [our military ranks] insinuate 
[the idea] of [cooperating with us in expelling the enemy from their 
remaining posts within the United States;] and observe that [G. Britain ] 
still [reckons much on her numerous friends] in [this country] and will 
[spare] no [means] of [increasing them.] It is supposed in particular 
that [experiments may be made] to [seduce the States] to [separate ne- 
gotiations.] The whole [concludes with] fresh [assurances of the un- 
alterable adherance of his most Christian Majesty to the principles] of 
[the alliance.] - . . . . 

493. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philadelphia, May i, 1781 [1782]. 
Dear Sir, 

The case of the vessel captured within North Carolina was some time 
since remitted to Congress by Governor Harrison." .... The anger of 
Mr. Burke was erroneous in its principle, as well as intemperate in its 
degree. The offender being an officer of Congress, and not of Virginia, 
Congress, and not Virginia, should have been resorted to for redress. 

On a consultation before Doctor Lee left us, it was determined that 
we ought to renew our attempts to obtain from Congress a decision on 
the cession of Virginia, before the meeting of the Legislature. The 
attempt was accordingly made, and produced all the perplexing and dila- 
tory objections which its adversaries could devise. An indisposition of 
the President, which suspended the vote of Maryland, furnished an argu- 
ment for postponing, which it was prudent to yield to, but which is now- 
removed by the arrival of Mr. Wright, a new Delegate from that State. 
We shall call again on Congress for a simple answer in the affirmative 
or the negative, without going into any unnecessary discussions on the 
point of right; and should the decision be postponed sitie die, we hope 
the State will consider itself at liberty to take any course which its interest 
shall suggest. It happens very unluckily that Virginia will only have two 

[493]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones) ; Cal. 
Va. State Papers, III. 143. 

- Cf. no. 493, post. The words in square brackets are written in cipher. See 
nos. 484, 487, ante, 

[493]^ Writings, I. 133; Papers, I. 90 (both texts dated 1781). 

2 See Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 90, and Harrison's letters to Governor Burke 
Mar. 9, 12, 19, to the President of Congress Mar. 22, and to the delegates Mar. 23, in 
Official Letters, III. I73-I7S. ^77, ^79', cf. ibid., p. 215. See also Burke to James Iredell 
Mar. 13, in A^. C. State Recs., XVI. 540, and Burke to Harrison Mar. 23, ibid., p. 556. 



340 Continental Congress 

Representatives present during the interesting business. Mr. Jones cannot 
be prevailed on to wait the event. Colonel Bland thinks the validity of 
charters unimportant to the title of Virginia, and that the title of the 
natives militates against the claims of the comj>anies. Is not my situation 
an enviable one? . . . ,^ 

The subject of Vermont has not yet been called up. Their agents and 
those of the land-mongers are playing with great adroitness into each 
others' hands. Mr, Jones will explain this game to you. Colonel Bland 
is still schismatical on this point. I flatter myself, however, that he will 
so far respect the united opinion of his brethren as to be silent. Mr. Lee 
entered fully into the policy of keeping the vote of Vermont out of 
Congress.* .... 

494. James Madison, Observations on Vermont and 
Territorial Claims.^ 

[May I, 1782.] = 
The two great objects which predominate in the politics of Congress 
at this juncture are I. Vermont, II. Western territory. 

I. The independence of Vermont and its admission into the Confederacy 
are patronized by the Eastern States (N. Ham [p] shire excepted) i. from 
antient prejudice agst. N, York: 2. the interest which Citizens of those 
States have in lands granted by Vermont. 3. but principally from the acces- 
sion of weight they will derive from it in Congress. N. Hampshire having 
gained its main object by the exclusion of its territory East of Connecticut 
River from the claims of Vermont, is already indifferent to its inde- 
pendence, and will probably soon combine with other Eastern States in 
its favor. 

The same patronage is yielded to the pretensions of Vermont by Pennsyl- 
vania and Maryland with the sole view of reinforcing the opposition 
of claims of Western territory particularly those of Virginia and by 
N. Jersey and Delaware with the additional view of strengthening the 

3 See nos. 482, 487-489, ante, 505, 509, 514, post. The passage here omitted relates 
to the further communication from the French minister. See the Journals, May i. The 
resolve of Congress mentions that the communication was received Apr. 29. See no. 492, 
ante, also Livingston to the states May 2 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 393; .V. C State 
Recs., XVI. 307; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 341). 

* See nos. 482, 489, note 3, ante. A passage giving an account of the murder of 
Capt. Joshua Huddy while a prisoner in the hands of the enemy is here omitted. See the 
Journals, Apr. 29, and nos. 525, 555, 602, 603, 612, 668, post. A brief account of the affair 
is found in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 263, with Washington's queries (Apr. 19) to the 
general and field officers respecting facts and procedure. 

[494]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Papers, I. 122; Writings of 
Washington (ed. Sparks), VIII. 547; Vt. Hist. Soc, Collections, II. 268; Vt. Recs., 

II. 394. 

2 The document has on the back this endorsement : " Observations Relating to 
the Influence of Vermont and the Territorial Claims on the Politics of Congress. May i, 
1782." Concerning it Sparks has this note: 

" This paper, dated May ist, 1782, was presented to me by Mr. Madison, and was 
written by him while in Congress at the time of its date. It exhibits an interesting view 
of two important topics, which then engaged the deliberations of that body, and the policy 
of the different States, as growing out of local and other causes." Writings of Washington, 
vol. VIII., App. X., p. 547. 



May, 1782 341 

interest of the little states. Both of these considerations operate also on 
Rhode Island in addition to those above mentioned. 

The independence of Vermont and its admission into the union are 
opposed by N. York for reasons obvious and well known. 

The like opposition is made by Virginia N, Carolina, S. Carolina, and 
Georgia. The grounds of this opposition are i. an habitual jealosy of a 
predominance of Eastern Interests. 2. the opposition expected from 
Vermont to Western claims. 3. the inexpediency of admitting so unim- 
portant a State to an equal vote in deciding on peace and all the other 
grand interests of the Union now depending. 4. the influence of the 
example on a premature dismemberment of other States. These con- 
siderations influence the four States last mentioned in different degrees. 
The 2. and 3. to say nothing of the 4. ought to be decisive with Virginia. 

II. The territorial claims particularly those of Virginia are opposed 
by Rhode Island, N. Jersey. Pennsylvania Delaware and Maryland. Rhode 
Island is influenced in her opposition by i. A lucrative desire of sharing 
in the vacant territory as a fund of revenue. 2. by the envy and jealousy 
naturally excited by superior resources and importance. N. J., Penn'a, 
Delaware and Maryland are influenced partly by the same considerations : 
but principally by the intrigues of their citizens who are interested in the 
claims of land companies. The decisive influence of this last consideration 
is manifest from the peculiar and persevering opposition made agst. 
Virginia within whose limits those claims lye. 

The western claims, or rather a final settlement of them, are also 
thwarted by Massachusetts and Connecticut. This object with them is 
chiefly subservient to that of Vermont, as the latter is with Pennsylvania 
and Maryland to the former. The general policy and interests of these two 
states are opposed to the admission of Vermont into the union, and if 
the case of the Western territory were once removed, they would instantly 
divide from the Eastern States in the case of Vermont. Of this Massa- 
chusetts and Connecticut are not insensible, and therefore find their ad- 
vantage in keeping the territorial Controversy pending. Connecticut may 
likewise conceive some analogy between her claims to the western country 
and that of Virginia and that the acceptance of the cession of the latter, 
would influence her sentiments in the controversy between the former and 
Pennsylvania. 

The western claims are espoused by Virga. N. and S. Carolina, Georgia 
and N. York, all of these States being interested therein. S. Carolina 
is the least so. The claim of N. York is very extensive, but her title very 
flimsy. She urges it more with the hope of obtaining some advantage, 
or credit, by its cession, than of ever maintaining it. If the cession should 
be accepted, and the affair of Vermont terminated, as these are the only 
ties which unite her with the Southern States, she will immediately connect 
her policy with that of the Eastern States ; as far at least as the remains of 
former prejudices will permit. 



342 Continental Congress 

495. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (John Mathews).^ 

Philadelphia, May 6th, 1782. 
Sir, 

The last pubHck Dispatches were conveyed by Col. Motte ; ^ The Time 
of Congress has been since principally taken up in making sundry Military 
regulations, and upon the Affairs of Vermont and the officers in which 
nothing Conclusive has been determined. 

On the 28th ulto. Congress reed. Communications from Letters of the 
24 Deer, and 22d Jany. wherein after expressions of Satisfaction ujKjn 
our Success in Virga. the weakness of our Army is lamented and the 
incapacity in which it leaves us of pursuing so important a Blow before 
the Enemy can recover themselves.* .... 

In Consequence of the above Congress entered into the following Re- 
solve, and upon it vou will probably hear farther from the Sec. of for. 
Affairs.* . . . . ' 

Two days ago a Member handed a Paper to the Table, mentioning that 
it was authentic, and received from N. York.* .... 

That on the 9th March. The Ceres man of war ordered to be got ready 
to sail with some Officers and persons of distinction for America, who are 
going over, it is said, to hear on what Terms the Congress will agree 
on a reconciliation with the Mother Country. The Packet, left Falmouth 
on the i6th of March, and brings farther Intelligence that Sir Guy Carle- 
ton is coming out immediately to take Command.® 

The Dates in the above Papers differ from the Accounts given by the 
Publick Papers ; it serves, however, to corroborate the Facts ; and what 
respects the Ceres man of war is worthy of Notice; we shall make no 
Comments upon them, but mention them merely as a matter of informa- 
tion. The British Cruizers have lately made great impressions upon the 
Trade here, by this mode the Enemy seems desirous of distressing the 
Mercantile Interest into an Inclination for Peace. 

A resolution of Congress of the 3d April refer'd the Application for 
Flaggs to the General, and we have since heard nothing from him upon 
the Subject. 

The Accounts from the W. Indies respecting the Fleets are vague and 
uncertain; we shortly expect to hear of an attack upon Jamaica by the 
combined forces of France and Spain. 

[495]' 5". C. Hist, mvd Geneal Mag., XXVII. 53. 

2 Motte obtained leave of absence Apr. 3, but evidently did not take his departure 
before Apr. 7, for he was the bearer of a letter of that date from Arthur Middleton to 
Aedanus Burke {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 28). 

3 The letters, which were from Vergennes, were communicated by the minister of 
France to Livingston Apr. 28 (Sunday), and by him laid before Congress Apr. 29. See the 
Journals, May i. 

*The resolve (direction to the secretary for foreign affairs) is in the Jouniais, 
May I (p. 222). Livingston's letter to the governors of the states. May 2, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 393. 

The information is of proceedings in the British Parliament at the end of 
February and the beginning of March (motion of Conway, Feb. 27, etc.). See no. 498, 
post, also the Rhode Island delegates to Governor Greene, May 7 (passage omitted, no. 496,' 
post). 

* See no. 505, post. 



May, 1782 343 

We have inclosed you the Papers compleat from the Time Col. Motte 
left Philada/ 

[P. S.] No Blank Commissions can issue. But Genl. Moultrie carried 
all the Commissions which were necessary properly fill'd up according to 
the arrangement made here. 

496. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia May 7th 1782. 
Sir, 

In the last letter which we had the honour to write to your Excellency, 
among other things we mentioned that a report on cessions of Western 
territory to the United States was made the order of the day, and that 
we hoped it would be postponed. 

Since that time the delegates of Virginia have on the one hand urged 
a decision on their cession with uncommon art and industry, while, on 
the other the delegates of R. Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut N. Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland have with equal diligence en- 
deavour'd to cause the whole report to be postponed; and after much 
manoeuvring it was yesterday generally postponed." 

Our views in promoting a postponement were that the Genl. Assembly 
might be made acquainted with this matter, and give the delegates of the 
State their instructions thereon, that the United States might have an 
opportunity of recommending to the State of Virginia, and other States 
wh. may have claims or pretentions of claims to Western Territory to 
make unrestricted and unconditional cessions thereof; and to check that 
rage for securing extensive possessions by Sale and Settlements which 
hath seized Virginia, and induced a conduct highly injurious to the inter- 
ests of the United States. 

With a proviso that should secure the claims of the other States and 
that of the United States to the proposed cession of N. York, we believe that 
a majority would agree to accept that cession, but neither would your dele- 
gates, nor the delegates of the states before mentioned accept the restricted 
cession of Virginia, or guaranty the tract of country claimed by them in 
their act of cession unless they should be order'd to accept thereof, by the 
legislatures of their respective States 

The Minister of France hath lately through the Secr'y for foreign 
afiFairs requested a public audience in order to deliver to the President a 
letter from his royal master to the United States in Congress assembled 
announcing to them the birth of the Dauphin. The joy of Congress on 
this happy occasion will be manifested by a discharge of cannon, a display 
of fireworks, and by an elegant entertainment for the Minister of France." 

'The letter is subscribed, " T. [J.] R., D. R., A. M." ; that is, John Rutledge, 
David Ramsay, and Arthur Middleton. 

[496]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782 (signed by Ellery and Cornell) ; 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 368. 

* See no. 479, note 3, ante, and the Journals, May i, 6. 

3 See the Journals, May 2, 7, 10, 13, 20, and nos. 500-505, 507, post. 



344 Continental Congress 

The report on the affair of Vermont lies untouched, and will not be 
stirred until it shall appear that some advantage will result from agitat- 
ing it 

497. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. May 7, 1782. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's favor of the 27th Ulto. came to hand yesterday. 
There has not been since time sufficient to procure the information the 
Executives wish for relative to the inhabitants lately transferred from 
the jurisdiction of Virginia to that of Pennsylvania. We shall endeavor 
to obtian it for the next post. The S[e]cretary of Congress assures us 
that 20 Commissions for armed Vessels were forwarded on the 30th 
Ulto. in consequence of a letter from Mr. Blair on the subject. If that 
number is insufficient the balance shall be supplied on the first notice.* 

.... Our affairs at [this court ' make no progress what] ever [toward 
the alliance sought for.] If it does [not take place] at [all] we shall have 
at [least the consolation] of [saving the Mississippi.] 



498. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.'^ 

Philadelphia, May [7], 1782.^ 
Dear Sir, 

The enclosed gazette details all the information which we have received 
relative to the parliamentary advances towards a negotiation with the 
United States. The first reports which issued from the packet which 
brought them, were of a very different complexion, and raised high 
expectations of peace. We now find the ideas of the opposition, as well 
as the Ministry, to be far short of the only condition on which it can 
take place. Those who are the farthest reconciled to concessions calculate 
on a dissolution of the compact with France. The Ministry will yield to 
the experiment, and turn the result upon their adversaries. Our business 
is plain. Fidelity to our allies, and vigor in military preparation — these, 
and these alone, will secure us against all political devices 

We have letters from Mr. Jay and Mr. Carmichael of as late date as 
the twenty-seventh of February. They differ in nothing from the style 
of the former. The conduct of the Spanish Court subsequent to the date 

[497]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Bland) ; Cat. Va. State 
Papers, III. 156. 

2 See no. 515, post. Harrison's letter is in Official Letters, III. 199. 

8 The delegates had mentioned the receipt of letters from Spain. The words in 
square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 484, ante. Concerning the Mississippi ques- 
tion see no. 480, note 2, ante, and no. 572, post. 
[498] 1 Writings, I. 189; Papers, I. 125. 

2 This letter was doubtless written the same day as that of the delegates to the 
governor (no. 497, ante), to which it closely corresponds in language and purport. See also 
no. 499, post. 



May, 1782 345 

of the letter received the day preceding your departure, corresponds en- 
tirely with the tenor of it as therein related. Mr. Jones will inform you 
of the act of Congress which that letter produced.' .... 

499. James Madison to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, May [7] 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

The letter enclosed herewith came to my hands from the eastern port. 
I forward it, not knowing how far its contents may interest you. 

The parliamentary intelligence published in the gazette of the morning, 
shows that some revolution in the councils of the legislative branch has 
taken place, which will probably have some effect on those of the executive.* 

But as the delusive idea of a federal, if not a political connexion with 
this country, founded on the ruins of its connexion with France, still 
pervade their policy, no conclusion whatever can be drawn from it, that 
will justify the smallest relaxation in our public measures. The efficacy 
of conciliatory overtures seems to be as foolishly and obstinately persisted 
in by one party, as that of military coercion has been by the other; and 
if the former should be indulged in their favourite experiment, it is more 
probable that their disappointment and vexation will make them converts 
to the views of the latter, than that both parties will lay aside their 
prejudices, and embrace the terms we hold out to them. 

A letter from Mr. Jay and two from Mr. Carmichael were received 
yesterday. They all speak the same language with that received from the 
former, a little before you left us. The success of the Spanish arms at 
Minorca will, we are told, be followed by redoubled efforts at Gibraltar. 

We have several times repeated our wish for an order on the western 
cessions, and have in every instance experienced a repetition of the same 
indecent obstructions and evasions of which you were a witness, and which 
nothing will explain but the cause to which we have from the beginning 
imputed them. It will neither be consistent with the respect we owe to 
our own public character, nor with the dignity of those we serve, to persist 
longer in fruitless applications to Congress for an answer. We shall there- 

s The action here referred to was evidently the resolve of Apr. 30, adopted upon a 
motion of Madison, seconded by Joseph Jones. Concerning this motion see no. 464, note 3, 
ante. Joseph Jones had left Congress oiJy a few days before this letter of Madison's was 
written. He is last recorded as voting May 3. Letters from Carmichael Feb. 18 and 27 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 173, 204) were read in Congress May 6. In a letter from 
Livingston to Jay May 9 (ibid., V. 404; the date should probably be May 16) it is men- 
tioned that Jay's letter of Feb. 6 (ibid., V. 150) had been read in Congress. See Jay to 
Livingston, same date (ibid., V. 149) ; cf. no. 505, post. Madison next speaks of the lack 
of progress in the " Western subject", although in briefer terms than in his letter to Lee 
(no. 499, post). The fact that none of the Virginia letters of May 7 mentions the post- 
ponement of the question May 6 suggests a possible discrepancy in the Journal record. 
There is also further comment in this letter respecting the policy of " making the impost 
of five per cent, subservient to an honorable adjustment of territory and accounts ". 
[499]! R. H. Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, IL 331 (with the date 1778). 

- See nos. 495, 498, ante. The delegation letter (no. 497, ante, in a passage there 
omitted) comments on the parliamentary intelligence in the " enclosed Gazette ". If these 
letters were actually written on the 7th the paper referred to was probably the Pennsyl- 
vania Packet, which carried in the issue of May 7 an account of proceedings in the House 
of Commons Feb. 27. The same account is in the Pennsylvania Gazette of May 8. 
76 



346 Continental Congress 

fore wind up the business as well as we can in a few days, and transmit 
a statement of it for the general assembly, who will certainly be fully 
justified in taking any course with respect to their western claims, which 
the interest of the state shall prescribe. 

500. The Secretary of Congress to the Superintendent of 
Finance (Robert Morris).^ 

Sir, 

It is the desire of Congress that the table before the president and the 
tables before the Members be covered with green cloth on the day of the 
public Audience ^ Mr. Patton ® waits on you to receive your directions, 
respecting this matter. 

May 9 1782. 

501. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs (Robert R. Livingston).^ 

[May 9 ? 1782.] 
Dear Sir, 

I have the pleasure to inform you that Congress have reconsidered their 
resolution and have struck out all that follows " Secy of foreign affairs " 
and in lieu thereof have inserted " who shall give invitations in the name 
of Congress to the prest. and council of Pensylvania, the principals of 
the three executive departments under Congress and such other persons 
as he may think proper." 

This I hope will remove your difficulties and enable you to proceed in 
executing the business in such way as will do hongr to your self as well 
as to Congress ^ 

[500] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 401. 

- On May 2 Congress had set Monday, May 13, for an audience to the minister of 
France for the purpose of reading a letter from his Most Christian Majesty to Congress 
announcing the birth of a dauphin, and on May 7 had adopted the ceremonial for the 
occasion. This detail is not however mentioned in the ceremonial programme. See no. 496, 
note 3, ante, and nos. 501-505, post. 

3 Robert Patton, messenger to Congress. 
[501 ]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 247. 

- See nos. 496, 500, ante. The part assigned to the secretary for foreign affairs 
in the public audience to the minister of France was not satisfactory to Livingston ; accord- 
ingly he addressed to the President of Congress the following letter : 

" Office of foreign Affairs 

Philadelphia 8th May 1782. 

" Sir, I this moment received a Resolution of Congress, ordering an entertainment to be 
provided by Congress at the City tavern for the Minister of France and his Suite to be 
under my direction, and impowering me to invite thereto such General Officers and 
foreigners of distinction in town as the President shall approve. As the execution of this 
important trust (for which I find myself disqualified) will materially interfere with the 
business of this Office, I must beg leave to decline the Honor that Congress intend me. 
I have directed the Tavern keeper to be informed that it will be necessary to provide a 
dinner on Monday, in order that no time may be lost by my having been appointed." 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. IL, f. 175, endorsed as read May 9. 

What action Congress took upon receipt of this letter from the secretary for foreign 
affairs neither the Journals nor any known letters reveal, but there was evidently an 



May, 1782 347 

502. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs (Robert R. Livingston).^ 

Sir, 

The United States in Congress Assembled having appointed Monday 
the thirteenth Instant at 12 O'CIock for giving a PubHc Audience to the 
Honorable the Minister of France and having resolved that a place be 
assigned to the Principals in the three executive Departments under 
Congress, 

I have the honor to inform you that the Place assigned to those Gentle- 
men is within the bar to the right and next to the Members of Congress 
on the left of the Chair. 

The United States in Congress Assembled have farther resolved That 
the Assistants and principal Secretaries in each of the Departments be 
admitted without the bar of the House. The Messenger of Congress has 
orders to furnish you with tickets for such of the Gentlemen in your 
Department as come within the above description.^ 

Philadelphia May loth 1782. 



interchange of views between Secretary Thomson, on behalf of Congress, and Secretary 
Livingston, as the following letter from Livingston to Thomson, May 9, clearly evidences : 

" Philadelphia, 9th May, 1782. 

" Dear Sir, You who know the respect I have for Congress will easily conceive the 
reluctance I feel in persisting to decline the direction of their Entertainment while it 
stands upon its present footing — were it duly annexed to my office I should think myself 
obliged to perform it — did the United States in Congress chuse to appoint me their 
Master of Ceremonies upon any occasion in which they appeared as a sovereign, I should 
think they added greatly to the honor they have already conferred upon me. But, Sir, I 
feel that there is a respect which every man owes to himself if he has been dignified by 
honourable Employment — or if in office, to that office and the Sovereign that appointed 
him which forbids him to take a new Charge derogatory to the former. 

"Congress call upon me to direct an entertainment at which I am not even a guest — to 
which none of the Principals in the great departments or the most respectable executive 
officers are to be invited. From which the President and Council of this State, the field 
officers in town tho' on duty, a number of genteel strangers (not being Foreigners) some 
of whom were ten days ago members of Congress are excluded and the general officers 
implicatively since they never visit without their aid de camps — it is true the odium I 
should incur by my agentry on this occasion would be removed if I could plead the order 
of Congress, but I should find it difficult to make the world believe that an officer whose 
past and present Ernployment give him some title to respect could be ordered to direct 
an Entertainment without some little attention having been paid to his recommendation — 
and were this to gain credit, I should want a sufficient apologj- for having taken upon 
myself a duty which placed me on a footing with the Presidents'stewar[d]. Delicacy and 
respect for Congress kept me from assigning these reasons to them — if they must be 
brought before them, I wish you to do it in such a way as to satisfy my veneration for 
their orders, and the pain I feel in being placed in such a situation as not to be capable 
of executing their commands on this occasion without degrading an office which their 
Honor and Interest requires to be supported with some degree of dignity, particularly 
in the Eyes of foreigners. Should Congress find it proper to alter their Resolution, which 
however I am far from taking the Liberty to suggest, I should think myself honored by 
carrying their commands into execution. 

" I am, Dear Sir, with great Esteem, your most obed. hum. Servant, Robt. R. Livingston." 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 61. 

It was evidently this letter of Livingston which induced Congress to make the alterations 
in the ceremonial as indicated in Thomson's letter. The alterations were made probably on 
May 9, yet the Journals merely show emendations in the record of Mav 7. See further 
iios. 502-505, 507, post. 

[502]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 251; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., V. 401 (dated May 9). 

2 See nos. 500, 501, ante. Identical letters, although with additions as noted below, 
were sent to the superintendent of finance and the secretary at war. Thomson's draft of 



348 Continental Congress 

503. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphia May nth, 1782. 
Sir, 

I arrived here last Monday, my horse's getting lame delayed me two 
or three days in my journey. The Committees to whom was referred your 
Excellency's letters, in respect to commissioning privateers, and in respect 
to the prisoners, have reported, but no resolves have been passed upon 
them.'' 

Monday next the Minister of France has an audience to announce the 
birth of the Dauphin 



504. The Secretary of Congress, Report.^ 

Monday May 13, 1782.- 

This day having been assigned for giving the Minister of France a 
public audience, in order that he might deliver to the United States in 

the letter to the superintendent of finance is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 69. At folio 67 
of the same volume is the following memorandum : 
"Add as a postscript to the letter for the super finance 

"As the Comptroller Treasurer Register and Auditor are within your department the 
Messenger will deliver you the tickets for those Officers. 
" To that for the Sec'y at War add 

"As the Officers of the Army come more immediately under your notice the Messenger 
will deliver you as many tickets for them as you shall think proper." 

The following letter was addressed by Secretary Thomson to the president of Pennsyl- 
vania (William Moore) : 

" The United States in Congress assembled having appointed Monday the 13 instant at 
12 oclock for giving a public Audience to the hon'ble the Minister of France and having 
resolved That a place be assigned for the President and executive Council of Pensylv'a 

" I have the honor to inform [you] that the place assigned for your Excellency and the 
hon'ble Council is within the bar to the right as you enter, and facing Congress." Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 75 (draft). 

[503] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 348. 

2 See the Journals, May 4 (p. 238 n.), 6 (p. 243 n.), May 21; cf. ibid., June 14 
(p- 333 n-). June 20 (p. 340 n.). 

[504] 1 Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXIX. 497. 

2 The following plan for seating the guests at the entertainment was drawn up by 
Secretary Livingston May 12 : 

" The Order in which the Guests shall sit at the entertainment given to morrow by Con- 
gress, shall be as follows 

" The President of Congress on a Chair in the center. The Minister of France on his 
right hand on a Chair ; the Members of Congress in equal divisions on each side of him. 

" The President and executive Council of Pensilvania on the right of Congress, on the 
left, the Principals of three great executive Departments, (except the Secretary for foreign 
Affairs, who as Master of the Ceremonies shall sit opposite to the President of Congress). 
The Secretary of the United States in Congress assembled. 

" The Secretary to the Legation, shall sit on the left hand of the Secretary for foreign 
Aflfairs, and the Consul on his left. The eldest General Officer on the right of the Secretary 
for foreign Affairs. The Genl. Officers Treasurer, Comptroller, and Auditor General, and 
foreigners of distinction on his right and left without designation of Rank. 

" The remainder of the Company seating themselves without any particular attention 
to rank. 



May, 1782 349 

Congress assembled a letter which he had rec'd from his most Christian 
Majesty to them announcing the birth of a Dauphin. The Minister came 
in his own coach to the State house, being escorted by the city troop of 
light horse. At the State house he was rec'd with military honors, and 
being met at the foot of the steps by two members deputed for the purpose 
he was by them introduced to his seat. 

The house was arranged in the following order — The President in a 
chair on a platform raised two steps from the floor with a large table 
before him. The members of Congress in chairs on the floor to his right 
and left with small tables before them. The tables were all covered with 
green cloth. On the left of the chair sat i, delegates from Massachusetts, 
2. Rhode Island, 3. Connecticut, 4. New York, 5. New Jersey. On his 
right sat i Greorgia, 2 S. Carolina, 3 Virginia, 4 Maryland, 5 Delaware, 
6 Pennsylvania. The whole in a semi-circle. New Hampshire and North 
Carolina were not represented. 

Next to the Members of Congress on the left of the chair stood the 
principals of the three executive departments namely the Superintendant 
of finance the Sec'ry at War and the Sec'ry for foreign affairs. 

The Secretary of the United States in Congress assembled stood on 
the right of the president on the first step of the platform. At his right 
on the floor stood the interpreter behind the chairs of the Members. 

The president and council of the State of Pennsylvania stood within 
the bar on the right as they entered and facing the president. 

The rest of the audience stood without the bar. The doors were opened. 
Centries were placed at the inner door and none except the minister and 
suite were admitted without a ticket which was signed by the Sec'ry of 
Congress who furnished each of the members with two, the Super, finance 
with as many as were wanted for the officers in his department, the Sec'ry 
at war for those in his department and for such of the general officers of 
the army as were in town and the Sec'ry for foreign affairs with those 
wanted for foreigners of distinction whom he might think proper to be 
admitted. The President of Congress was furnished with a number to 
distribute among citizens. The whole number prepared was 200. 

The Minister was conducted into the Congress Hall by the two members 
who had received him at the foot of the steps of the outward door. As 
he entered the bar the president and the house rose, the president being 
covered. The Minister as he advanced to his chair bowed to the president 

" Gouvernuer Morris Esqre. will do the honors of the Table at one end, Major Jackson 
at the other, Lewis Morris Esq. at the side of the table which is opposite and farthest from 
the President." Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. II., f. 197 (not in Livingston's writing). 

Gouverneur Morris was assistant to the superintendent of finance, Maj. William Jackson 
was assistant to the secretary at war, and Lewis Morris, jr., was assistant to the secretary 
for foreign affairs. 

Just prior to the reception Secretary Livingston proposed an addition to the address of 
the President in response to that of the minister of France. The addition constitutes the 
last nine lines of the response as it appears in the Journals, May 13 ("an union .... 
principles of the alliance"). See the two communications from Livingston to the Presi- 
dent, May 13, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 416. Concerning Livingston's course in 
connection with the audience to the minister and the entertainment given by Congress, see 
the article on Livingston by Milledge L. Bonham, jr., in The American Secretaries of 
State and their Diplomacy, I. 129. 



350 Continental Congress 

who took off his hat and returned the bow. The Minister being uncovered. 
The Minister then bowed to the members, on each side of the chair, who 
were standing uncovered but did not return the bow. The Minister then 
sat down and put on his Hat. A chair was prepared for him on the floor 
directly opposite to the president and before it a table covered with green 
cloth. On each side of his chair was placed a chair for the members who 
introduced him. He who was first named of the two took the chair on the 
right and the other that on the left. The president the members and 
the Minister all took their seats at the same time. The Secretary of the 
embassy stood on the left of the chair of the member at the Minister's left. 
After about a pause of a minute the Minister arose and taking oflF his 
hat addressed the United States in Congress assembled in a short speech 
delivered in french. The house sat while he delivered his speech. The 
president only being covered. Having finished his speech he sat down. 
And the Sec'ry of the Embassy coming forward delivered the letter from 
his most Christian Majesty to the Sec'ry of Congress who advanced to 
the end of the platform to meet him and having received it carried it back 
and delivered it to the president who opened it and delivered it again to 
the Sec'ry who causing the interpreter to advance to the first step of the 
platform gave it to him open and he read it in the original to the audience. 
The Sec'ry then on the platform read a translation of it and returned the 
letter to the president. Whereupon the president, the Members and the 
Minister rose the President being covered, but the Members and the 
Minister uncovered; and the president on behalf of the United States 
addressed the Minister in a short speech after which they all sat down 
and after a short pause the Minister rose, whereupon the president and 
the members rose. The Minister then bowed to the president and the 
members and withdrew, the members who introduced him reconducting 
him to the foot of the steps at the outward door, 

A report drawn up by the Secretary and shown to the president and 
some members who thought it too minute (on the present occasion) to 
trouble Congress for an order to insert it on the minutes, it was therefore 
suppressed. 

Cha Thomson Sec'ry. 

505. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 
^ ^. Philadelphia May 14, 1782. 

The Ceres man of War we are informed by a New York paper arrived 
there in twenty five days on the 5th instant having on board his Excellency 
Sir Guy Carleton, Commander in chief, etc., and commissioner for mak- 
ing peace or war in North America 

We have at length brought our territorial business to an issue. It was 
postponed sine die on the 6th instant. We have transmitted the whole 
l)roceeding to the Governor to be laid before the Assembly." .... 

[505]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 (copy) ; Papers, I. 127; Whar- 
ton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 417. 

2 See no. 498, ante, nos. 509, 514, post. Madison wrote to Randolph May 21 : " The 
final report of our suit to Congress for an answer to the Western cession was sent by the 



May, 1782 361 

Since I finished the above a letter has come to Congress from General 
Washington enclosing one to him from Sir Guy Carleton announcing 
his commission in conjunction with Admiral Digby to treat of peace with 
this country, and requesting a passport for his Secretary Mr. Morgan 
to bring a similar letter of compliment to Congress. The request will 
certainly be refused and General Washington probably directed to receive 
and forward any despatches which may be properly addressed to Congress.^ 

A public audience was yesterday given to the Minister of France, in 
which he formally announced the birth of the Dauphin. It was deemed 
politic at this crisis to display every proper evidence of affectionate attach- 
ment to our Ally. The Minister was accordingly received with Military 
honors and the audience concluded with the discharge of cannon and a 
feu de joi of small arms. A public entertainment followed and fireworks 
at night closed the scene.* 

The answer reported by the committee on Mr. Dana's letter, animad- 
verted on his precipitancy and ' gave him a cautionary instruction. It 
afterwards went to the Secretary of foreign affairs and thence I suppose 
in his dress to Petersburgh. Mr. Jones will give you more satisfactory 
information on this as also with respect to the answer of Mr. Jay's 
Letter.' .... 



last post. Mr. Jones can explain every thing relative to it. I feel myself much disburdened 
by the termination of the business. If it should be revived here, in consequence of steps 
taken by the Legislature, I flatter myself it will be under circumstances less embarrassing." 
Writings, I. 196. 

3 See the Journals, May 14 ; also Livingston to Jay May 9, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., V. 404. Some parts at least of Livingston's letter must have been written as late 
as May 16. In the first place, he refers to Washington's letter to Congress May 10, enclos- 
ing Carleton's letter of May 7 to him. both of which were read in Congress May 14. In the 
second place, he writes Jay in this letter : " I yesterday took the sense of Congress upon 
the propriety of giving you leave of absence. They have declined giving any answer to that 
part of your letter, from which you are to conclude that they do not conceive it advisable 
at present. I enclose the resolution I proposed, which they thought it proper to postpone." 
There are two letters from Livingston to the President of Congress, both dated May 15, 
submitting his proposed resolve relative to Jay's leave of absence. They are ibid., p. 419, 
where also is found his proposed resolve, as follows : 

" It having been represented to the United States in Congress that certain circumstances 
might render it expedient to permit Mr. Jay to leave the court of Madrid and repair either 
to the United Provinces or to Versailles, Resolved, That such permission be granted him, 
provided that he shall conceive that such absence would be attended with important 
advantages to the United States and that it does not exceed three months." 

The letter of Washington to Congress May 10, above referred to, is in Writings (ed. 
Sparks), VIII. 293 ; his reply of the same date to Carleton is ibid., p. 205 ; Carleton's letter 
to Washington May 7 is ibid., p. 536 ; his reply, June 20, to Washington's letter of May 10 
to him is ibid., p. 537. 

* See nos. 496, 500-504, ante, and no. 507, post. 

^ The words "animadverted on his precipitancy and", in a different writing from 
that of the letter, are noted in the margin as having been " left out ". Similarly, the words 
" at night ", at the close of the preceding paragraph, are inserted in the margin as " left 
out ". The same hand has endorsed the letter, " a Duplicate letter both corrected the same 
Sep. 14 '58 ". 

« The question was whether Dana should present his letters of credence to the 
court of St. Petersburg. Dana had been definitely instructed {Journols, Dec. 19, 1780) to 
consult Vergennes and the Marquis de Verac (French minister at the court of St. Peters- 
burg) with regard to the appropriate time to present his letters of credence; but against 
the advice of those ministers he had, in August, 1781, gone to St. Petersburg, where he 
had accomplished nothing except to place himself in a humiliating situation. See the report 
on a conference with the minister of France, Sept. 21, 1781 (Joitrnals). When Livingston 



352 Continental Congress 

506. Edmund Randolph to the Speaker of the Virginia House of 
Delegates (John Tyler ).^ 

Richmond May 16, 1782. 
Sir, 

Having returned from congress, after remaining there for that portion 
of the year, which is assigned by law to each delegate, I should have 
offered myself to the general assembly for the pur[jose of information, 
had not my colleague, Mr. A. Lee, been a member of the house of dele- 
gates. From him you will learn the posture of public affairs, the prospect 
of peace, as it is to be found in the temper of our ally, the mediating 
powers or our enemy, the state of our army and navy, the history of our 
finances, as it includes the national debt, the expenditure of money, the 
settlement of accounts, subsisting prior to the completion of the con- 
federation, the operations of the bank, the provision made for the dis- 
charge of monies loaned, and the erection of a mint. The temper of 
congress with regard to Virginia and the motives of several resolutions 
can also be shewn by him. It would be useless to detail the other particu- 
lars, upon which he can make communication. I shall therefore only add, 
that if the assembly should wish to be informed of any thing, which 
happened before the arrival of Mr. Lee at congress, I shall be in readiness 
for their summons. 

507. Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Phila. May 17th 1782. 
D'r Sir, 

I am again returned to Congress where I expect to Stay through the 
Summer, which you know very well is disagreeably Sweating to both 
body and purse 

The States are going on in their usual dilatory way. The business in 
Congress is much helped by the establishment of distinct Executive de- 
partments. Rivingtons News from New York is that Count DeGrass 
in the Ville Paris is taken with three other Ships of the Line, this news 
is Much Questioned for it Contradicts every other acct. reed, from the 
West Indies, as there has been several arrivals from the West Indies 
since the action which was on the 12th ulto., and they are Sporting away 
largely in the Coffee house I am Credibly Informed that not less than 
£20,000 was under wrote yesterday on the Ville Paris at 10 and 18 per Ct. 

learned of Dana's purpose to proceed to St. Petersburg he wrote Dana (Mar. 2, 1782) 
advising him to appear only in his private character (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 209). 
Novir, after the receipt of a number of letters from Dana, it appeared to be all the more 
necessary to reiterate the caution and to emphasize the instructions of Congress at the time 
of his appointment. This Livingston did in a letter which bears the date of May 10 (ibid., 
p. 41 1 ) , and it is this letter to which Madison refers. Madison appears to have supposed that 
the letter had already gone to Dana, but Livingston's letters to Dana May 22 and 29 (ibid., 
pp. 436, 446) reveal that the letter had for some time been under consideration in Congress! 
Action was not however taken upon it until May 27. See the Journals. 

[506]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

[507]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 



May, 1782 353 

Genl. Parsons has resigned and is out of the army, his motives for it I 
am unable to Explain. Genl. Carlton has arrived at New York, and 
bro't the news of a total Change in the British administration and Cabenit.^ 
last monday the birth of the Dauphin of France was anounced to Congress 
in form by the Minister who had a public Audience for the purpose, and 
every demonstration of Joy was Exhibited on the occasion.^ .... 

508. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, May 21st, 1782. 
Sir, 

I have nothing particular to communicate to your Excellency in an 
official line. I should not, therefore, at this time have solicited your atten- 
tion, had it not been to inform you of the necessity of an immediate 
successor to Colonel Floyd who left us last week. The usual unpunctuality 
of members in relieving each other now gives us a thin Congress at a 
critical season, when a full representation of all the States is absolutely 
necessary. I wish our State may not long lie under the imputation.* 

I am anxious to hear how our two late Acts have operated on the minds 
of the inhabitants of the Grants. I have communicated them to several 
of the members. Our friends think we have been too liberal in one. Others 
think the Act of Oblivion should have contained no exceptions. I am 
of both opinions. However, such as the Acts are, I shall this day lay them 
before Cpngress. And as the manoeuvres of others have not taught but 
compelled me to do the like in my turn, I shall follow the reading of them 
with a motion comprehending them verbis, syllabis, et figuris, that they 
be referred to a special Committee to report thereon. It will perhaps be 
one of the longest motions that ever was made; but it is the only effectual 
measure to introduce them on the journals. To attempt this in any other 
way would probably, for evident reasons, be attended with great opposi- 
tion. The event of the day on the business, I shall insert before I close.' 

I find I can get nothing done to purpose on the concurrent Resolutions 
of our Legislature respecting the levies and the two State Regiments, 
till I can assure Congress, that our line is full. I must therefore entreat 
your Excellency to favor me with returns ; that I may announce the fact 
on the floor of Congress. This will probably ensure success to a motion 
for complying with request contained in the concurrent Resolutions. I 
am the more impatient for those returns, for reasons which with many 
other particulars of too delicate a nature to entrust to a stated post, I shall 
take the liberty of conveying to you more safely by a private hand 

I have made my motion on the two acts. It has miscarried by a small 
majority against it. However, I called for the yeas and nays. This will 

2 See no. 505, ante. 

3 See the Journals, May 13, and nos. 496, 500-505, ante. 
[508]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 222. 

2 See the Journals, May 27, and nos. 513, 514, post. 

8 See also the last paragraph of this letter; cf. no. 485, ante, and nos. 509, 514, post. 
The New York acts are in the Journals, May 21, and in Vt. Recs., II. 391-394. 



354 Continental Congress 

bring the Acts on the Journals with my motion. This is all I exi)ected, 
considering how thin Congress now is. After this, I think the State will 
be fully justified in pursuing its own measures. 

509. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton),^ 

Peeks Kill May 22d 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Congress is now so thin that they Can With Difficulty make a 
house, and unless one of my Colegues Goes on Soon, I expect you will 
Receive a Letter from Congress on the Subject. 

There is Nothing done Respecting the Grants, nor Do T think that 
Congress Ever will do any thing in the matter, therefore if it was possible 
for our State and N. H. to Come to Some Settlement between themselves 
on that Subject I think it would be the only Effectual mode of puting an 
End to that Disagreable Business.^ The Report of the Committee Re- 
specting (ours and Others) Cessions of the Western Lands, has Been 
under Consideration But is now pos[t]poned I dont Expect it will be 
taken up very Soon tho there did not Seem to be any Objection to the 
Cession made by New York, But Difficulties arose with Respect to that 
of Virginia.'' 

510. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Secy's Office May 23d, 1782. 
Sir, 

The Com'ee to whom your excellency's letters of the 24 of April were 
referred having made report Congress have passed a resolution thereon, 
which I have the honor to enclose." 

I beg leave to inform your excellency that no commissions for private 
armed vessels are granted by Congress but through the medium of the 
executives of the several states, to whom blanks are transmitted from this 
Office; that Congress expect pursuant to their recommendation of the 
10 Nov 1780 that the governors or presidents of the several states who 
grant commissions are careful to have inserted on the back of the com- 
mission a minute description of the persons of the captain and his lieu- 
tenant with their age stature complexion etc. certified by the governor or 
president under his seal. So that your Excellency by calling for the com- 
mission of A M Dayton of Newhaven mentioned in your letter of 24 
April to his Excell'y the presidt. of Congress, will see from whom he has 
procured it. And if it should be found not to have the above endorsement 
there will be reason to susj^ect he has not procured it fairly and your 
excellency will, doubtless, take effectual measures to prevent any farther 
exercise of power under a commission improperly obtained. 

[509]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4541. 

2 See no. 508, ante, and no. 514, post. 

3 See nos. 496, 498, 505, ante, 514, post. 

[510] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 407. 
2 See the Journals, May 4 (p. 238 n.), 21, and no. 512, post. 



May, 1782 365 

511. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States/ 

,^. , . Secretary's Office Mav 23d, 1782. 

(Circular) 

Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose a Resolution of the United States in Congress 

Assembled passed the 21, authorising the Executives of the several States 

in certain cases to suspend the Commissions of Captains of Private Armed 

Vessels; and as there is reason to suspect that not only the Enemy but 

even some persons of doubtful Character in the States make an improper 

use of Commissions unduly obtained I beg leave to call Your attention 

to the Recommendation of Congress of loth November 1780, a Copy 

of which is also enclosed. 

512. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

-.. Philadelphia, May 24th, 1782. 

Congress have judged it necessary to appoint two of their members 
to proceed to the southward and two to proceed eastward to make certain 
communications to the Legislatures of the several States, of great im- 
portance to the weal and safety of the United States, which otherways 
it was thought could not be so well done. The members appointed will 
set out next Monday and will probably l)e at Hartford in the course of 
week after next, at which time it is expected the Genl. Assembly of Con- 
necticut will be sitting.^ .... The resolution upon your Excellency's 
letter respecting commissions to private armed vessels is passed, authoris- 
ing the executive of the States to suspend and report such as misbehave, 
etc.^ . . . 

513. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

^. , Philadelphia 28th May 1782. 

Circular ^ ' 

Sir, 

The necessity which occasioned the Act of Congress of the 27th instant, 

a copy of which I have the honor of enclosing, is sincerely to be lamented, 

and I could wish had been avoided." To experience inattention to the 

general Good, at this great and important Crisis, when the collected 

[511] » N. Y. State Lib., Ginton Papers, no. 4543; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 57; 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 403. 

[512] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh sen, HI. 354. 

- See the Journals, May 22, and nos. 515, 516, 518, 519, fost. Root does not mention 
that he himself was one of the delegates appointed for the eastern excursion. " Next 
Monday " would be May 27. 
3 See no. 510, ante. 

[513]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 147; ibid.. Force Trans., N. H. 
Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4561 ; N. C. State 
Recs.. XVL 330. 

2 The act earnestly recommended to the states unrepresented immediately to send 
delegates to Congress, " and to all the states to keep up a constant representation ". The 
states wholly unrepresented were New Hampshire. Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, 
and North Carolina. New York had but one delegate (Scott) in attendance, whose 
single vote was insufficient. 



356 Continental Congress 

Wisdom of the Union is particularly required, is painful indeed, and must 
leave an unfavorable impression. A moment's reflection, I am convinced, 
will produce the same sensations in your Excellency's Breast, which I feel 
on this occasion, and will plead more powerfully for an immediate com- 
pliance with the recommendation of Congress than anything that can be 
urged by me. 

514. John Morin Scott to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).* 

Philadelphia 28th May 1782.^ 
Sir, 

.... if I do not receive it [i. e., money for expenses] in a few 
days, / must retufn home, whether the State be represented or not.* And 
yet it will give Me great Pain to leave the two important Businesses of 
the Grants and Cession unfinished. I only wait for a fuller House to 
move them. The Reports in both lie on the Table. The former, I have 
all the Reason in the World to hope, will be the last Efifort in Congress, 
in favor of the Revolters, if it be rejected in a full House. The latter 
requires one equally full ; because the States who are friendly in the 
other Case seem to be averse to making any Cession to he at the 
disposition of Congress; who, they say, ought not for obvious Reasons 
to have landed Property in their Power. Indeed, I am not sanguine about 
it. But as I Conceive it to be my Duty to contribute to the Execution 
of the Will of the Legislature, I shall do it in due Time if not instructed 
otherwise.* 

515. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).* 

Philadelphia May 28th 178 [2.] 

.... The letters which came enclosed in your Excellys by last Post ^ 
after having perused attentively, [we delivered to the Minister of France 

[514]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4560. 

2 Scott wrote to Clinton on the preceding day (May 27) : "This morning were 
read in Congress a Letter from Doctor Franklin of the 30th March, inclosing a Copy of 
one from Mr. Adams of the same Month" (N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4555). 
Franklin's letter to Livingston is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 277 ; the letter of 
Adams to Franklin (Mar. 26) is ibid., p. 273. See no. 517, post. Scott's letter of May 27 
also discusses the question of enlisting German prisoners of war. See the Journals. May 
15, June 5. 

8 See no. 485, ante. Scott had reiterated his urgent need of money. Concerning 
the question of attendance see no. 524, post ; also Clinton to Scott June 6, in Clinton Papers, 
VIIL 6. 

* With regard to Vermont see nos. 508, 509, ante, and no. 576, post. With regard 
to the cessions see nos. 493, 505, 509, ante, and no. 569, note 3, post. 

[515]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Bland); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, IIL 201. 

2 Governor Harrison's letter, dated May 11, is in Official Letters, IIL 209. The 
enclosures were a letter to Robert Morris, superintendent of finance, and one to the 
Chevalier de la Luzerne, both of May 11 {ibid., pp. 210, 211). See note 4, below. 



May, 1782 357 

and Mr. R. Morris.] ' No Answer or Comment on the Contents of 
either has yet been addressed or communicated to us, [nor have we yet 
urged to either of them an explanation of] the [subject of them.] 

We shall endeavor [to investigate the motive] and [cause] of the 
[alteration] you mention [of the disposition and payment] of the 
[stores.] * 

We think it proper to acquaint your Excellency that a letter [from Dr. 
Franklin to Mr. R. Morris] read in Congress leads to this knowledge, 
tho' not completely it appears [therefrom], that [a loan for] the [current 
year] has been [granted to] the [United States] of [Million of 

Livres] and that [a Deduction has been made] of [seven hundred thou- 
sand Livres therefrom on account] of [Virginia for stores purchased] 
for that [State] by the [Ministry of France] whereby the [State of 
Virginia becomes debtor to the United States.] This appears to us at 
present to be [the act of the Ministry in France] but from what motive 
or by whose instigation is not clear to us. When it was [determined to 
sol]l[icit that Loan] we can only find [that Congress authorized] the 
[Minister of the War department] of [foreign affairs and minister of 
finance] to explain [to the Minister of France the absolute] necessity 
[of such a supply.] 

We hinted to Your Excellency in our last [the distressed and critical 
state] of [the finances] and the measures which wd probably be persued 
by Congress [in hopes of exciting the states] to all [the activity] and 
[energy] they are capable of in that line. We have not been mistaken in 
our conjecture and Congress has deemd speedy [exertions of such conse- 
quence] to the [welfare of the general Cause] that altho there is but 
[a bare representation left they have come to a resolution [to dispatch 
two] of [their members] to the [Southern and two to the eastern States 
charged] with an [explanation] to the Executives and [such of the legisla- 
tures] as [may be in session of the true state of our finances] and the 
[causes leading thereto.] ' They have also orderd [an exact state] of 
the [loans, subsidies, and monies received] to be [laid before them by 

3 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 484, note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals, May 24, 25. Franklin's letter to Robert Morris, Mar. 4, is in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 218; Morris's to Congress, May 23, is ibid., V. 438. See 
also Franklin to Vergennes Feb. 15, ibid., V. 164, and Morris to Franklin May 23, ibid., 
V. 437. Harrison's letter, to which the delegates were replying (see note 2, above) was 
with reference to Morris's letter to him, Apr. 27 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 331). 
Letters of Harrison pertaining to the stores to be obtained from France are in Official 
Letters, HI. 117, 148, 209-211, 229, 238, 250, 253, 380, the first dated Dec. 29, 1781, the 
last-mentioned being of date Nov. 16, 1782. See further no. 527, post. 

" See the Journals, May 22, 29, 30, June 27, July 15, 18. Cf. nos. 512, ante, 516, 
S18, 519, post. The following entry in the Diary of Robert Morris, under date of May 20, 
indicates that the deputation was suggested by him : 

"This evening I met Mr. Madison, Governor Rutledge, Mr. Qymer, Mr. Lovell 
[Lowell], and Mr. Root, the conmiittee of Congress appointed to confer with me on the 
subject of my letter to Congress of the 17th instant, enclosing an intended circular letter 
to the States. I laid before these gentlemen a true picture of our situation ; but after much 
conversation they appeared to be disinclined to sending the circular letter, and I proposed 
sending suitable persons to the several States, to make proper representations to the execu- 
tives and legislatures, which they seemed to prefer, and on which they are to consult and 
report to-morrow morning " (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 426). Morris's circular letter, 
dated May 16, is ibid., p. 423. his letter to Congress, Mav 17, ibid., p. 426. 



868 Continental Congress 

the Minister of Finance] together [with an account] of [their apphca- 
tion. Mr. Rutledge and] Mr. [Qymore are deputed to the South States, 
Mr. Root and] Mr. [Montgomery to the Northward] the latter [set off 
to-morrow.] * Letters from Dr. FrankHn so late as the 30th of March 
last inform us that England is weary of the War — that she appears to 
want to get out of it if she knew how — that she is nevertheless making 
[useless attempts to withdraw us from France by secret applications to 
our Ministers in Europe] at the same time that [she] is [playing the 
same game by her commissioner here] and [by secret] tho' [f]rui[tless ap- 
plication to the Court of France] accompanied by great and [advantageous 
offers to that Court] which we are informd [from another quarter France 
has nobly rejected and] has [categorically answer'd] by declaring [she 
will accept no offer but the independance of the United States.'' .... 

516. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 
^ <^. [Philadelphia, May 28, 1782.] 

A letter from Doer. Franklin of the 4th of March, informs the Superin- 
tend't of Finance that the [Court of France had granted an aid of six 
millions of livres to the United States] for the [present year.] ^ , , . . 

The above letters came by the Alliance wch is arrived at Rhode Island. 
Captain Barry, I am told, says that [the Marquis] will [come] with [a 
squadron] for [the American coast,] which was [equipping]. If [this 
be true,] Barry is [wrong in disclosing it.] I [distrust it.] 

A French cutter is since arrived after a short passage, with despatches 
for the Minister here. He reed, them on Saturday by an express from 
Salem, and has not yet communicated their contents to Congress 

In order to explain our public affairs to [the States, and to urge] the 
necessity of complying with the requisitions of Congress, we have de- 
termined to [depute two members to visit the Eastern States] and [two 
the Southern]. The first are [Root and Montgomery]. The others 
[Rutlidge and Clymer.] I put this in cypher, because secrecy [has been 
enjoined by Congress.] The [deputation] will probably set off in a 
few days.^ 

I find that [the Minister of France has been informed by some corre- 
spondent in Virginia that the late intelligence from Britain has produced 

^ See the Journals, May 22. 

'■ The delegates discourse further upon Adams's letter to Franklin Mar. 26, and 
Franklin's to Livingston Mar. 30 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 273, 277), read in Con- 
gress May 27. See also Franklin to Morris Mar. 30 (ibid., V. 278), the communica- 
tion of Luzerne to Congress May 28 (ibid., V. 443, and the Journals), Livingston to Adams 
May 29 and 30 and to Franklin May 30 (ibid., V. 447, 459, 461). 

[516]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings. 1. 197; Papers, I. 130. 
The letter in Madison Papers, Ac. 1081, is not the letter addressed to Randolph, but was 
doubtless to Arthur Lee. However, as stated in the letter (see note 5, below), the principal 
part of this letter was copied directly from the letter to Randolph. 

2 Franklin's letter of Mar. 4 to Morris, laid before Congress May 24, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 218; one of the same date to Livingston is ibid., p. 214. Bracketed 
words in this letter are written in cipher. The word translated " present " is not correctly 
so enciphered, but there is no doubt as to the meaning. The passage omitted (chiefly in 
cipher) is principally a comment on the fact that all this aid — and more^-had already been 
anticipated by expenditures. Similar comment is found in the delegation letter, no. 515, 
ante. 

8 See nos. 512, 515, ante, 518, 519, post. 



May, 1782 359 

very unfavorable symptoms in a large party. He seems not a little dis- 
composed at it. The honour of the State concurred with my own per- 
suasion in dictating a consolatory answer to him]. For this reason as 
well as for others I think it would be expedient for [the Legislature to 
enter into an unanimous declaration on this point.] Other [States are 
doing this and such a mode of] announcing [the sense of the people may 
be regarded as more authentic than a declaration from Congress. The 
best form], I conceive will be that of an [instruction to the Delegates.] 
Do not fail to supply me with [accurate and full informations] on the 
whole subject of this paragraph. 

A letter from Dr. Franklin of thirtieth of March inclosing a copy of 
one to him from Mr. Adams at the Hague were laid before Congress 
subsequent * to writing the above." .... 

The Secretary of War has just given notice to Congress, that the De- 
partment of Finance is unable to supply the essential means of opening 
the campaign. This shocks, rather than surprises, us. It will be one article 
in the communications of the deputies above mentioned, and adds force 
to the expediency of their mission. 

The denial to Congress of the right of granting flags is singular indeed. 
May not the power of Congress to agree to a truce be contested on the 
same grounds? The former is a partial truce, and if the silence of the 
Confederation reserves it to the States, the same silence reserves the latter. 
Admitting that Congress had the right of granting flags, was it not 
exercised to the advantage of Virginia in procuring a vent to her staple, 
and stopping the exportation of her specie ? " 

517. James Madison to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, May 28, [1782.] 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favour of the i6th inst. between nine and ten o'clock 
last night, the post having been delayed by sickness. I shall pursue your 
commands with respect to the bill enclosed in it 

* The printed texts have " subsequently ", but the " ly " is a later emendation on 
the MS. The reading of Franklin's letter to Livingston Mar. 30 is not recorded in the 
Journals (but see no. 514, note 2, ante). It is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 277. One 
of the same date to Morris is ibid., p. 278. Accounts of despatches are here omitted. 

" After some comment upon these letters there occur, in the letter found in the 
Madison Papers (Ac. 1081 ; see note i, above), the following passages: 

" If this s'd find you at Richmond, it will be unnecessary for you and Mr. R. both to be 
at the labor of deciphering, the above being copied from his letter. I made this provision 
for the contingency of your not having proceeded to Richmond. That you may not give 
me more credit for it than is due, I must confess that you owe it in part to the facility with 
which my letter to him in cypher afforded for repeating the intelligence to you. I believe 
I have omitted one paragraph on another subject which he will communicate to you. 

" Whitesides has the means remitted for taking up the note in which I am concerned. 

[In the margin:] " I have urged Mr. R. to return and charged him to urge you. Let 
me hear from you on that subject, and let it be favorably. Farewell. J. M. Jr. Yr. fav'r 
of 21 was re'd i after 9 oC last night." These remarks were evidently addressed to Arthur 
Lee as a colleague. 

The last two paragraphs of the letter to Randolph, as printed in Writings and repro- 
duced above ("The Secretary of War .... exportation of her specie"), are not found 
in the manuscript letter referred to. 
« See nos. 517, 519, post. 

[517]^ R- H. Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, II. 328 (with the date 1778). This letter was 
offered for sale in January, 1916, by the John Clark Company of Qeveland, Ohio. 



360 Continental Congress 

We have received no letters from Mr. Dana very lately. If I do not 
forget, some have been received since you left us, which contained little 
more than a proof that he had not become sensible of the error which his 
preceding letter displayed. Despatches from Mr. Jay, transmitted by Col. 
Livingston, have been lost to us by the capture of this gentleman by a 
privateer from New York. They were not however gained by the enemy. 
f-^y^ Col. Livingston is now here, but restrained by his parole from suggesting 
^^. -^ the contents of his despatches, or giving any other intelligence from that 
quarter. 

I have written more fully in cypher to Mr. Randolph, on foreign sub- 
jects and some others, than time or prudence will permit me to repeat here. 
For what is omitted, I must therefore beg leave to refer you to him. 

The reasons which recommend an interference of the assembly in the 
case of the Flags, do not I confess occur to me. If the goods included 
in the capitulation of York, were sold, and are to be paid for, it would 
seem that a mode of payment, which affords to Virginia a vent for her 
staple, and prevents the exportation of her specie, cannot be complained 
of by her.^ .... 

Notwithstanding the importance of the present crisis, the number of 
states in Congress does not exceed eight, sometimes seven only, and most 
of these represented by only two members. The president is directed to 
write to the unrepresented states on the subject, and urge them to supply 
the deficiency.' I wish much for a re-inforcement to the delegation of 
Virginia, and have pushed [pressed?] Mr. Randolph to undertake that 
service immediately. I calculate on your return so soon as your other 
undertakings will permit. In the present moment it is of consequence that 
every delegation should be tolerably full, as well as every state represented. 

518. John Lowell to Samuel Adams.^ 

[May 28 ? 1782.] 
Dear Sir, 

The very great Embarrassment which attends all our Operations from 
the Neglect in the several States to furnish their Quota of Taxes, has 
induced Congress to send four of their Members (two to the southern 
and two to the eastern States) to envite them to an immediate Attention 
to the Subject, by communicating to them the critical State of our Affairs, 
and the absolute Necessity of an immediate Supply. You will be surprized 
to find how truly critical this Neglect has rendered our Situation, the 
Delicacy and Danger of representing which by writing, has produced the 
Measure which Congress has adopted. Mr. Root and Mr. Montgomery 

2 See no. 516, ante, and no. 519, post. Omitted passages in this letter relate chiefly 
to foreign affairs, which are also discussed in the letters to Randolph. 

8 See the Journals, May 27, and no. 516, ante; also Randolph to Bland, May 25, in 
Bland Papers, II. 82. May 20 Madison wrote to James Madison, sr. : " It has at no time 
been more difficult for me to fix my probable return to Virga. At present all my colleagues 
have left Congress except Col : Bland, and it is a crisis which calls for a full representation 
from every State." Writings, I. 194. 

[518] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



May, 1/82 361 

are the Gentlemen who visit our State, with both of whom I think you 
are personally acquainted. Govr. Rutledge and Mr. Clymer go to the 
Southward.^ .... 

519. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philadelphia, May 29, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I wrote you yesterday morning by the post, fully and in Cypher.^ 
As I am told however the Bearer will probably be in Richmond before 
the Post, it may not be amiss to repeat to you that we have heard nothing 
from Carlton since our refusal of the passport to his secy, and that we 
have authentic information from Europe that insidious attempts have 
been made both on Doctor Franklin and Mr. Adams, by British Emissaries, 
as well as tempting overtures employed to divide our Ally from us 

A Copy of sundry resolutions of the House of Delegates touching the 
exportation of Tobacco in the Flags was laid before Congress yesterday 
by the Superintend't of Finance and referred to a Committee. On a re- 
view of the Doctrine of the 9th Art. of the Confederation I believe the 
Right of the State to prohibit in the present case the exportation of her 
produce can not be controverted.^ The States seem to have reserved at 
least a right to subject foreigners to the same imposts and prohibitions 
as their own Citizens ; and the Citizens of Virga. are at present prohibited 
from such an exportation as is granted in favor of the B. Merchants. 
This is a very interesting point and unless the division line between the 
Authority of Congress and the States be properly ascertained, ever>' 
foreign treaty may be a source of internal as well as foreign controversy. 
You will call to mind one now in negociation, which may be affected by 
the construction of this clause in the Confederation. Congress have no 
authority to enter into any convention with a friendly |X)wer which would 
abridge such a right. They cannot have a greater authority with respect 
to a Hostile power. On the other side it is equally clear that the State 
has no authority to grant flags for the exportation of its produce to the 
Enemy. Armed Vessels wd not respect them, nor would they be more 
res|)ected in the Courts of Admiralty. Unless Congress and the State 
therefore act in Concert no tobacco can be remitted to N. Y., and a further 
drain of specie must ensue. When the matter was first opened in Con- 
gress the impression was unfavorable to the right of the State, and pretty 
free strictures were likely to be made on its opposition to the constitutional 
power of Congress. It became necessary therefore to recur to the law 
and the testimony which produced an acquiescence in the contrary doctrine. 
Their sentiments however with regard to the policy and consistency of 
the Resolutions are very different. The last Resolution in particular com- 
pared with the preliminary doctrines produces animadversions which I 

- See the Journals, May 22, and nos. 515, 516, ante, 519, 529, 536, 544, 555, post. 
[519]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 200; Papers, I. 134. 

2 See no. 516, ante, 

3 The passage, " The States .... Confederation ", is on a separate sheet, marked 
for insertion at this point. 

27 



362 Continental Congress 

need not recite to you. There are several reasons which make me regret 
much this variance between Congress and Virga. of which a material 
one is that a great Personage will be touched by it since it originates in 
his Act, and since in a conference between a Committee, him and the 
Superint't he concurred in the expediency of granting the passports.* 
Gillon is just arrived here with full sail of the llavannah fleet : I have 
not yet heard whether he brings news or not 

520. William Few to James Jackson/ 
^ ^^. Philadelphia June 2d 1782. 

In order to curtail this Epistle I enclose you the latest news papers 
which contains all the domestic intelligence — Britain has changed her 
Ministry and they it seems are disposed to change the system of the War 
in America, but we see no reason to believe that it is their intention to 
yield us our Independance or cease to exercise every means in their power 
to injure and destroy us. Finding they cannot by force accomplish their 
diabolical designs they are now about trying the effect of artifice and 
Intrigue. An Emmissary has been sent by the British Minister to Mr. 
Adams at the Hague requesting to know if any person from America was 
vested [with] the power of negociating a seperate peace. About the 
same time a secret Agent was sent to the Court of Versailles, proposing 
a seperate peace with France and offering to give them up all their 
conquests in the West Indes and some advantages in the East Indes — 
the French Minister answered that any propositions for peace that did 
not contain the Independance of America was inadmissable. Thus we see 
their nefarious schemes subverted and a contrary effect flow from it, 
for it will tend more warmly to attach and unite France and America and 
increase that growing confidence between the two Nations. 

Please to remember me to all enquiring Georgians and believe me to 
be with much esteem Your assured Friend. vy p 

*The "great personage" was evidently Washington. See nos. 516, 517, ante, the 
Journals, May 28 (p. 308 n.), 29, 30, and Robert Morris to Daniel Clarke May 30, in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 448. Morris's letter deserves to be read for reasons quite 
apart from its relation to this particular controversy. As preliminary to the resolutions of 
the House of Delegates mentioned in the Journals, May 29, and in Morris's letter to Clarke, 
see Governor Harrison's letter to Clarke May 9, his letter to the attorney general May 13, 
and his letter to the speaker of the House of Delegates May 14, in Official Letters, HI. 
206, 222, 223. See also ibid., p. 391, and no. 713, post. June 14 the Virginia assembly 
adopted the following resolution : 

" Whereas the Honorable John Rutledge and George Clymer esquires two members of 
Congress have appeared in this house and have given a satisfactory explanation of the 
expediency of the Proceedings of Congress touching the Pass ports granted to certain 
flag-vessels loading six hundred and eighty five hogsheads of tobacco in this state 

" Resolved that the governor be desired to give every necessary assistance for carrying 
the Views of Congress and their Financier into due effect respecting the lading and clear- 
ing the said vessels with the aforesaid quantity of tobacco." Va. State Library, Executive 
Papers. Cj. Madison to Randolph, June 6, Writings, I. 206. 

Randolph wrote to Madison June 15 : " The house of delegates assented to the measure 
by a majority of ninety to ten or eleven, and the senate heard not a single negative. 
Mr. Rutledge is said to have been the parent of this revolution, and effectually to have 
converted all the leading members except Mr. R. H. Lee, whose perseverance remained 
undiminished by his arguments." Library of Congress, Ac. 1081. 

[520]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



June, 1782 363 

521. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.* 

[Philadelphia, June 3 ? 1782.] 
[Dear Sir,'] ' 

General Washington has transmitted to Congress sundry informations 
he has reed, of preparations at N. Y. for expediting from thence a con- 
siderable number of ships.' Whether they are to convoy troops and 
whither, or to bring off troops from other places, is uncertain. He has 
also transmitted to Congress an answer to him from Genl. Carlton on a 
demand made at the instance of the Legislature of S. Carolina of a 
retransportation of the exiles at the expence of the King of G. B. This 
demand was instituted not executed during the command of Clinton, from 
whom an imperious refusal was calculated upon. In pursuance of the views 
of the new system, his successor weeps over the misfortunes of the exiles, 
and in the most soothing language that c'd be framed, engages to comply 
fully with the application. This incident at once mortifies our pride and 
summons our vigilance. We have nothing further from Carlton on the 
main point. 

The communication expected in my last from the M. of F. has been 
reed, and afforded a very seasonable occasion which was improved, of 
renewing the assurances suited to the present crisis.* .... 

522. The Secretary of Congress to the Superintendent of 
Finance (Robert Morris).^ 

Secy's Office June 4th 1782. 
Sir, 

The reading of the letter from Mr. Deane which with Governor Trum- 
buUs answer you this day transmitted to Congress ^ brought to mind, that 

[521 ji Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 205; Papers, 
I. 138. 

- The first part of this letter is probably missing. It bears neither date nor 
salutation. 

3 Washington's letter of May 28, read in Congress June 3, is probably here referred 
to. Cf. no. 523, post. 

* This renewal of assurances is in a resolution of May 31. 
Robert Morris wrote to Washington June 4 : " Since I wrote you in Cypher relating 
to the Loan in France I have received Letters from Doctor Franklin which made it proper 
to communicate the Matter to Congress. By those Letters and by Communications from 
the french Minister on the Part of his Court it appeared that Mr. Franklin had already 
anticipated the whole of this Loan excepting the small Part which I have drawn for. so 
that we can count upon nothing from that Quarter towards the Relief of our Necessities." 
It was principally for this reason, he said, that he had recommended sending committees 
to the eastern and southern states (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). See no. 519, 
note 4, ante. 

[522]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 411. 

2 The Journals contain no record of the reading of these letters June 4 (no pro- 
ceedings of that day are recorded), but an editorial note under June 5 (p. 319 n.) mentions 
that they were read that day, having been transmitted by the superintendent of finance 
with a letter of his own, June 2. Deane's letter to Trumbull, Oct. 21, 1781, is in Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 292; Trumbull's reply. May 15, 1782, together 
with his letter to Secretary Livingston, is ibid., p. 349. Deane's letter is also in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., IV. 797; Trumbull's letter to Livingston, dated May 23, 1782, is ibid., 
V. 437. See also Livingston to Luzerne June 7, and to Trumbull June 12, ibid., pp. 481', 
488. Cf. nos. 430, 432, ante, and no. 529, post. 



364 Continental Congress 

one of the Vessels of War belonging to the United States is called the 
Deane. As the person after whom she was named has by his perfidy and 
defection forfeited all title to every mark of honor or respect I am author- 
ised to inform you that although Congress think it beneath their dignity 
to pass an Express resolution for changing the name, yet another name 
will be more agreeable to them, and that you will be justified in making 
the change. 

N B. After the letter from Deane to Govr. Trumbull and the governor's 
answers were read Mr. Lowell observed that a Vessel of war belonging 
to the United States was called Deane ; that the person after whom it had 
been named had acted such a part that it was in his opinion improper that 
any vessel of the U S. should bear his Name Whereupon the sense of 
the house was taken and the Secretary was directed to intimate to Mr. 
R Morris Agent of Marine that it will be proper to change the name of 
the Deane frigate.^ 

523. John Morin Scott to George Washington."^ 

„. Philadelphia June 4th 1782. 

The immediate departure of the Post leaves Me barely the Opportunity 
of a few Moments to trouble your Excellency on a Subject of a delicate 
Nature. Your Letter to the Secretary at War of the 28th last contains a 
Passage, which he at your Request has laid before Congress, " that such 
Measures may be taken thereon as they shall think proper to direct." The 
passage to which I allude, is that which respects those Inhabitants of the 
State of South Carolina which in defiance of good Faith, and breach 
of the Capitulation of Charles town, have been exiled from their Habita- 
tions by the Enemy. This passage together with a Copy of Sir Guy 
Carlton's Letter in answer to yours of the 21st last on that Subject have 
been referred to a Committee, of which I have the Honor to be Chairman, 
to report thereon. The committee are ignorant on what Grounds You 
placed your Application to the British Commander in Chief; and are 
the more anxious for information from your Excellency from a due 
attention to certain Strokes in [the] passage alluded to, expressive of 
your Feelings on this delicate Subject. They will therefore be much 
obliged by a Copy of your Application to the British Commander in Chief 
in Behalf of the injured Capitulants, should such a Communication render 
itself proper in your Judgment, that they may be enabled to report on the 
fullest Information, concerning a Matter which so nearly concerns the 
Honor of these united States.^ 

8 The first part of the letter is in the writing of a clerk ; that beginning " N B." 
is in Thomson's own hand. 

[523] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The letter from the secretary at war, dated June 3, was referred to the com- 
mittee (Scott, Boudinot, and Ramsay) the same day (Journals, p. 315 n.). On June 13 a 
letter from Washington to Congress (June 6) relating to the subject was referred to the 
same committee (ibid., p. 329 n.). Washington's reply (June 10) to this letter of June 4 
from the committee was probably received by the 14th, for on that day the committee made 
its report 



June, 1782 365 

524. James Duane to Philip Schuyler/ 

Manour Livingston 4th June 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... My Journey to Philad. is decided. Mr. Attorney General ^ de- 
clares he cannot attend without deeply injuring his private Affairs : and 
Mr, Lhommedieu has had lately a long Session with the Assembly. / can 
have no Objection! Young and rich and vigorous, and of little Conse- 
quence to my Family, why shoud I fear the summers Heat in an unhealthy 
Climate? Is not the Honour of serving as a member of Congress — tho' 
so many others have shaken it off — quite a sufficient Consideration for 
me; and abundantly productive of Peace and Comfort to my Family, of 
Improvement and Instruction to my Children! and will it not lay a sure 
foundation for plenty and Affluence in old Age? I am surprised so wrong 
an Estimate is made of this sovereign office by Gentlemen who, in other 
Respects, seem to have no marks of Insanity about them: and indeed 
Judge of other things with the utmost precision! but enough of this — 
I will go! The State shall not be unrepresented: tho' I had some little 
pretensions to have chosen my Tour in the Fall, and it was the only 
Indulgence I claimed. 

.... Strange that the financier, in spite of every Remonstrance, shoud 
persevere in the Idea that this State is able to pay the Tax assessed upon 
it! and more unaccountable that he shoud find a Native of this State 
to encourage that Opinion, probably to beget as well as to foster it! I 
suppose no Citizen will be deemed a Competent Witness ; or Mr. R. Liv- 
ingston, one of the publick Ministers — who has felt and complaind and 
remonstrated for years against the Weight and disproportion of our 
Taxes, might have set the Disability which we have stated, in a clear Light. 
Rivington who has been furnished with the Representation of the State, 
and the animadversions of the Financier, and published them in a Manner 
which do no Honour to a certain silly Knight, has given the World an 
opportunity of judging, and our Enemies of triumphing! .... 

[P. S.] Is it, my dear Sir, the Intention of the Legislature to make 
me a common Creditor for the Advances I made for the State to pay 
my Board and house keeping at Philadelphia? I hope a Sentiment so 
ungenerous is not entertaind. I give you my Honour that I have borrowd 
Money for my support, that I am in debt for necessaries, and know not 
how to pay it. If nothing better can be done why was I not permitted 
to borrow on the Credit of the State? or, at my Election, to take vacant 
Land for the amount? If I am not on the footing of the great officers of 
the state, I might be permitted to share the fortune of the Soldier ? In- 
stead of this no more than ten weeks Supply (£150), is provided, and 
I am called upon, with that plentiful stock, to repair to one of the most 
extravagant Cities in the World ! 

[524]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 561. 

2 Egbert Benson. See Clinton to Scott June 6, Clinton Papers, VIII. 6. 



366 Continental Congress 

525. TuRBUTT Wright to John Hall.^ 

Phila. 4th June 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Capt. Asgill of the Guard is the Officer on whom the Lott has fallen 
to die for the Sins of his countrymen in the cruel and barbarous Murder 
of Capt. Huddy. He came to this city last Wednesday under Guard, and 
on Thursday went on for Head Quarters where he will most certainly 
meet his Fate if the real Murderers of Huddy are not delivered up. He 
is quite a Youth, not more than 19 or 20 years of Age, but seems to feel 
most sensibly the Weight of his misfortunes. A British Officer was some 
Days ahead of him, on his Way to N York to solicit Carleton in his favor. 
The Situation of the last must be very delicate. The Importunities of 
the Officer on the one hand in favor of their Brother, and on the other 
the fear of disobeying the Refugees by delivering up their Brother Lippen- 
cott, must embarrass Sir Guy exceedingly. Clinton got out of this Diffi- 
culty very reasonably." 

Not one Word from Sir Guy yet on the grand Business, tho' some 
Persons are in hourly Expectation of hearing from him : For my Part 
I have not the least Desire to have any Communications from the Gentle- 
man, if any Propositions are to be made that America can listen to, 
the Way is open on the other side the Water, where there are Persons 
properly authorized to treat in Conjunction with our Allies, to them let 
the Applications be made.^ 

Are we to have no other Member of Congress sent in Addition to those 
who are here? Believe me it is necessary, and particularly so at this Time, 
to have a full Representation in Congress. Business of very great Im- 
portance may come upon the Carpet, which will require the Attendance 
of all the Delegates. At Present we have only eight States represented, 
and not more than two members attending from any one, and for some 
Time past only seven States were attending; this Circumstance from the 
nature of our Constitution is productive of very great Delay, as no Motion 
can be carried into Effect without the Concurrence of seven States at 
the least. Upon the whole I find the Duty extremely heavy, and the 
Rewards light. I can't think of remaining long in this Situation 

526. John Hanson to John Hall.^ 

Philadelphia June 4th 1782. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I very sincerely wish you may adopt the five per Ct. Duty in the 
manner recommended by Congress, because I think an impost on all im- 
ported goods is a mode of Taxation the easiest that can be proposed. 

[525]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 29, and no. 493, ante, nos. 602, 603, 613. 668, 675, 677, 680, 
682, post. 

•■' See the Journals, May 14, and no. 505, ante; cf. the Journals, Aug. 12, and nos. 
586, 588, 589. post. 

[526] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., Gilmor Papers, HI. 3. 



June, 1782 867 

The Merchants in the first Instance pay and the people insensibly refund, 
every man pays in proportion to What he chuses to Consume. The Ex- 
travagant man pays for his folly and the foreigners and strangers Among 
us are made to Contribute 

527. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

^, Philada. June 4th, 1782. 

.... We find, in a Report the Superintend't of Finance has made to 
Congress, the Substance of his letter to you on the Subject of Stores, 
and have Since had a Communication with the minister of France on 
that Subject, who, informs us he answerd your letter, to him, relative 
thereto,^ and he hopes satisfactorily, but requested us to acquaint Your 
Excelly, " that the Misfortune which the Count de Guichens Convoy had 
met with, rendering it very difficult, for the Ministry to procure transports 
for the Supply of their own fleets and Armies and to bring out the Sup- 
plies orderd for the United States, he feard it would not be practicable 
to send out those which had been purchased for the State of Virginia 
in any short time. He gave us to Understand, that the transfer of the 
Debt from the State of Virginia to the United States had been a Mis- 
understanding of the Ministry, or some of the Under offices, and that it 
would be revoked and accommodated to all parties. ["] We think however 
it would not be imprudent in the State of Virginia (if they wish soon 
to have those Stores), to provide transports for them and to obtain the 
same Convoy as those Vessels which are to bring out those belonging 
to the Un : States. 

The Count de Beniousky having renewd to us an oflFer which has been 
made to Congress, and not accepted as will be seen by the Enclosed papers 
No. I, 2, 3, 4, and 5, .... The Rejection of his offer to Congress arose 
from a doubt in two or three of the States concerning the Propriety or 
policy of their being accepted by Congress.^ .... 

528. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.* 

^ c,. Philadelphia June 4th 1782. 

Dear Sir, j -^ / 

.... According to your request I send an authenticated extract from 

the Journals of the vote of Congress on the clause which interdicts British 

Manufactures.'^ It has however been for some time in print, and will 

[527]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Bland and Madison) ; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, III. 185. 

2 See no. 515, ante. 

» See the Journals, May 6 (p. 243 n.), 10, 24, 29. The enclosures referred to (found 
in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers) were: Beniowszky's proposals, plans, explanations, 
etc. See Official Letters, 111. 250, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 314, and Fitzpatrick, 
Calendar of Washington's correspondence with the officers (index). 

[528]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 203; Papers, I. 136. 
2 The reference is doubtless to the ordinance ascertaining what captures on water 
shall be lawful, adopted Dec. 4, 1781, and amended Feb. 26, 1782. Both the original and 
the amending ordinance were issued as broadsides. 



368 Continental Congress 

probably be at Richmond before you receive the manuscript copy. The 
arguments urged against the measure appear to me in the same light in 
which you describe them. The policy of G. B. in the capture of St. 
Eustatius has been constantly reprobated by some of the wisest states- 
men. But whatever her policy might at that [period be. it is manifest that 
a very different one is now pursued. British goods are issued from the 
Enemy's lines with greater industry than they have ever been, and as is 
universally believed, with the knowledge, if not at the instigation of those 
in power. Indeed they would counteract their new system in doing other- 
wise. The sense of the Eastern States will appear from the ays and nos 
on the question. Mr. Adams in his last despatches ascribes much of the 
late pacific symptoms in the British nation, and of the facilities which 
begin to attend the mission in Holland, to our proscription of the British 
merchandize ^ 

529. The Connecticut Deleg.\tes to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^. Philadelphia, June 5th, 1782. 

.... Your letters to the President were seasonably delivered and tho 
Congress seemd to think Dean, or his letters in themselves considered, 
not worthy of notice, yet they seemd highly pleased with your answers 
considered in a publick light, and ordered the same to the Minister of 
Foreign Affairs.^ A word has not been said in Congress with respect 
to the dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, tho some gentn. 
out doors employd by this State have conversed with us on the subject 
and proposed a conference, so far as to know each other's concessions, 
to save trouble and expence, and indeed mention something about our 
agreement on the commissioners, etc. We are unhappy in Coll. Root's 
leaving Congress at this season, which was a few days before our arrival, 
and will render it improper for Coll. Dyer, being but one out of 3 agents, 
to act any thing- in the afifair, not only as Coll. Root's assist'ce would be 
much needed, but the power of one might be questioned. We hope his 
return will be hastned as far as possible, as every thing respecting that 
dispute must be postponed till his return.^ A news paper or two will give 
you all the news here, and perhaps will be only a return of what you have 
had before. 

3 The remarks of Adams referred to are found in his letter to Livingston Mar. 10, 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 333. The remainder of Madison's letter pertains to accusa- 
tions against Robert Morris as superintendent of finance. Among other remarks Madison 
says : " Every member in Congress must be sensible of the benefit which has accrued to 
the public from his administration; no intelligent man out of Congress can be altogether 

insensible of it I have in the conduct of [my colleague here, a sure index of the 

sentiments and objects of one of my colleagues who is absent, relative to the department 
of finance]." (Bracketed words are in cipher.) The colleague present was Bland; the one 
absent was Arthur Lee. 

[529]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IIL 355 (signed by Dyer and Ben- 
jamin Huntington). 

2 See no. 522, ante. 

8 See nos. 512, 516, 518, 519, ante, and nos. 536, 544, post. In a letter to John Morin 
Scott June 6 {Clinton Papers, VHL 6) Governor Clinton speaks of his conference with 
Root and Montgomery. 



June, 1782 369 

530. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Manour Livingston loth June 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Mr. Deane ' called upon me in his way to Philada. and shewd 
me his papers. I told him frankly that the Accounts of his Disburse- 
ments, and the proof of the Time he first enterd on the publick Service, 
were well authenticated and woud admit of no Dispute: But that I was 
very confident unless he obtained a Voucher from the Commissioners 
of the Time he had spent in the publick Service, he must necessarily be 
referred back to them, and his long Journey woud produce nothing but 
Mortification and Expence. I know the Mode in which the Contractor 
transacts business: he is precise, they say, too critically: I mean that 
this is the Complaint of Accountants — It is an Objection which will loose 
him no Interest with the publick. My Observations have induced Mr, 
Deane to return that he may obtain from you and Mr. Douw the Voucher, 
I have pointed out. If Mr. Deane wishes to be continued in the office he 
enjoys, It will be necessary in my Opinion that he shoud be armed with 
a Certificate that the Commissioners conceive they stand in need of an 
Agent to manage the publick affairs with the Indians. The Spirit of 
Retrenchment will otherwise put an End to this office infallibly. If I 
was asked by Congress whether it was necessary that in the present 
posture of our Finances it ought to be continued ; I must answer in the 
Negative : tho' I confess I am not a competent master of the Subject : 
and I shoud be sorry to have the point decided on my single Opinion. 



531. John Hanson to John Hall.^ 

Philadelphia June nth 1782. 
My Dear Sir, 

I thank you for your favour of the 7th Instant. I shall rejoice to hear 
of the passage of a law establishing the 5 per Ct. Duty agreeable to the 
request of Congress and if it is for a limitted time I hope it will be for so 
long a time as to Effect every purpose.^ .... 

The Continental Treasury is very low indeed, nothing paid in by Any 
of the States, what will be the Consequence Should our Bank fail ? And 
what can Support it if the Tax's are withheld? 

[530]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 562. 

2 James Deane, agent and interpreter for the commissioners for Indian affairs in 
the Northern department. Concerning his accounts see the Journals, July 2, 8. 
[531]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, II. 63. 

2 Cf. no. 526, atUe. The omitted passage relates principally to the recent engage- 
ment between the French and British fleets and the present relative strength of the two 
fleets. A similar account is omitted from the letter of the Virginia delegates, June ii 
(no. 532, post). 



370 Continental Congress 

532. James Madison to Eumunij Randolph.^ 

Philada. II June, 1782.' 
Dear Sir, 

.... Sir G. Carlton still remains silent. The Resolutions which the 
Legislatures of the States are passing may jxirhaps induce him to spare 
British pride the mortification of supplicating in vain the forgiveness 
of rebels. 

Mr. [Izard,] * warm and notorious as his predilection for [the Lees] 
is acknowledges and laments the opposition made [by them] to measures 
adapted to the [public weal.] 

The letter in the first page of the Gazette of this morning was written 
by [Mr. Marbois.] In an evening of promiscuous conversation I sug- 
gested to him my opinion that the insidiousness of the British Court, and 
the good faith of our ally, displayed in the late abortive attempt of the 
former to seduce the latter, might with advantage be made known in 
some form or other to the public at large. He said he would think of 
the matter, and next day [sent me] the letter in question, with a [request 
that I would revise and translate it for the press], the latter of which was 
done. I mention this that you may duly appreciate the facts and senti- 
ments contained in this publication.* 

533. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia June [11?] 1782.- 
Sir, 

This days post brought us Your Excelly's favor of the first of June 
enclosing the Resolution of May 28th relative to the Commissioners for 
settling the Accounts of the State, as also, a letter for the Chevr de la 
Luzerne, and a Copy of Resolutions of the Assembly of the 23d of May, 
relating to the transaction of Col : Harrison with that Minister, all of 
which shall be duely attended to.' .... 

[532] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; IVritmgs, I. 207; Papers, I. 140. 

2 See the letter of Robert Morris to Randolph, June 11, in Madison Papers, I. 142. 
In the close he says : " For Heaven's sake let us owe our freedom to ourselves ! We have 
the means, if we dare to use them." 

8 Words in square brackets are in cipher. The cipher here is simply 664, that is, 
" Z " ; but Randolph interpreted it as meaning Izard, and he was no doubt correct. Izard 
had taken his seat June 7. 

* The letter, dated June 9, was printed in the Penusylvania Packet of June 11, 1782, 
preceded by this introductory note : 

" The following Extract of a Letter, written from Philadelphia by a Gentleman in Office, 
to one of the principal Officers in the State of New Jersey, cannot fail to be acceptable to 
the Public. We are authorised to vouch for the Authenticity of the Facts contained in it." 
The letter is reprinted in the Madison Papers, III. xxxv. 

[533]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (signed by Madison and Bland) ; Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 202. 

'^ The Virginia delegates wrote to the governor as a rule on Tuesday of each week. 
The date of this letter was therefore probably Tuesday, June 11. 

3 The letter to Luzerne, May 31, is in Official Letters, III. 238 (see no. 515, note 4, 
ante) ; that to the delegates, June i, is not found there. 



June, 1782 371 

534. Samuel Osgood to the Secretary of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts (John Avery). ^ 

^ ^. Philadelphl\ June 12th, 1782. 

.... I hoj^e in a short Time to have the Pleasure of seeing my Friends 
in Massachusetts here I cannot stay; not for Want of Health, which 
I enjoy in a tolerable Degree at present: But for Want of the Means 
to continue it. I have been this Week honored with a Draught on the 
Treasurer made last January returned for non Payment. I should have 
been very happy to have had a Single Line from any Body informing me 
of the true Reason why it was returned — there can subsist but two 
Reasons; either I have drawn for two \_sxc\ much in the Course of last 
Year; or, the Treasurer was not able to discharge it — either of which 
Reasons are sufficient to make me exceeding anxious to return. Return 
I must — Because I cannot now ask a Gentleman in this City to take a 
Draught upon Boston, or rather our Treasurer. .\nd I cannot live here 
without the Means of living. I wish for no more than a decent support. 
And the whole Amount of my Draughts are considerably short of that. 
However I feel perfectly easey because I am entirely willing to be here 
or at Home, or any where else. I ask no Favors, if I can be useful to 
my Country it will afford me Pleasure in any Situation, If I cannot I 
wish to live retired; it is a Life that pleases me most.' 

535. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs (Robert R. Livingston).^ 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
Dear Sir, June 14, 1784 [1782]. 

The letter to his Most Christian Majesty as reported has been agreed to. 

I enclose a copy that you may have a draught prepared. It is the pleasure 
of Congress that it be signed by the President and countersigned by you 
and that the Seal of the United States should be used in sealing the letter ' 

536. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

^^y Philadelphia, June 17th, 1782. 

Your Excellency's letter of the 7th instant was reed, the 13th.* We 
should be happy to hear that Mess'rs Montgomery and Root have been 
so successful in executing their trust as to produce great and good eflFects 
to the United States.^ 

[534)1 Mass. Arch., CCIV. 158. 
^ C/. no. 418, note 2, ante. 
1535]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cent. Cong., no. 55, f. 255. 

2 See the Journals, June 13. 

. [536] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser.. III. 358 (signed by Dyer and Ben- 
jamin Huntington). 

- Governor Trumbull's letter was laid before Congress June 14 (Journals, p. 333 n.). 

3 Concernmg the mission of Montgomery and Root see nos. 515, 516. S18, siQ. '520. 
ante, no. 544, post, and the Journals, July 15, 18. ^ j. o » j , o y, o y, 



372 Continental Congress 

The copy of the Act of A-ssembly transmitted by your Excellency ini- 
powering Congress to levey and collect duties on imjxjrtations in our 
State was read in Congress, and seemed to meet with their general 
approbation. The caution therein taken to preserve our own rights, and 
to prohibit the expenditure of any part of the money so collected upon the 
half -pay-establishment, was particularly pleasing to some. A Committee 
is appointed to draught an ordinance to regulate the collections, but this 
cannot be compleated untill Rhode Island and Maryland have passed 
similar Acts, the other States having already done it.* .... 

537. Eliphalet Dyer to Roger Sherman.^ 

Philadelphia June 17th, 1782.' 
Sir, 

1 received your kind favor of the 7th instant. We arrived in this place 
in about 9 days after set out from Hartford, tarry'd one day at New 
Windsor being the Sabbath, find Congress composed of an agreeable set 
of gentlemen, affairs goe on with Decency and Harmony, tho' far from 
that Crowd of Important business which formerly pressed on Congress, 
the principal objects are to lessen our Expenditures as far as possible 
tho' I find the Establishments in many Departments much too high which 
am informed arose from their being made at a time when the new 
Currencies of paper Bills were to take place tho' on one hand esteemed 
as solid cash in nomination, yet at the time known as a fact that they 
were not of half the real value by which means a high sum was given 
which they find difficult to reduce even where it must be paid in specie. 
The regulating the courts of appeal etc. are under consideration,^ also a 
committee appointed * to make a Draught for establishing and collecting 
the Impost proposed to be laid. We have received the act from our 
Assembly, but there are still two or 3 States behind, tho' we hear they 
have passed the necessary acts yet they are not transmitted to Congress. 



* The resolve calling upon the states for power to levy a duty of five per cent, on 
imports and prize goods was adopted Feb. 3, 1781. The committee (Duane, Clymer, and 
Bee) to draft an ordinance to regulate the collection of the duties was appointed Apr. 23, 
1781. On June 13, 1781, McKean was put upon the committee in place of Duane. See also 
the letter of the superintendent of finance Feb. 11 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 152), and 
\ht Journals, Feb. 11, Mar. 15, 26. For responses of the states see the Journals, Mar. 15, 22, 
1781, June 14, 1782 (Connecticut) ; Mar. 26, Apr. 19, 1781, July i, 1782 (Massachusetts) ; 
Apr. 5, 1781 (New York); Apr. 23, 1781 (New Hampshire); June 13, 1781 (New 
Jersey) ; July 16, 1781 (Virginia) ; Oct. 4, 1781 (North Carolina) ; Feb. 19, 1782 (Dela- 
ware) ; July 15, 1782 (Maryland). The responses of Pennsylvania and South Carolina 
do not appear to have found record in the Journals, but the act of the former is dated 
Apr. 5, 1781, that of the latter, February, 1782. Georgia failed to comply, while Rhode 
Island definitely refused assent. See nos. 537, 569, post. 

[537] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Sherman, p. 344. 

2 Benjamin Huntington wrote to Andrew Huntington June 17: "I Reed, yours 
by Mr. Brown with the Accounts it Covered and shall take the first Opportunity to lay it 
before the Committee of Congress Appointed to Receive all Such Matters and will 
Acquaint you with the Result as soon as known" (Mass. Hist. Soc., Wolcott Papers). 
See the Journals, July 2 (p. 390), and no. 552, post. 

3 Concerning the Court of Appeals see no. 456, ante. 

* The transcript has " counter appointment ". See no. 536, ante, and no. 569, post. 



June, 1782 373 

538. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. i8th June 1782. 
Sir, 

The Post having been robbed of his mail on his return through Mary- 
land, we had not the honor yesterday of receiving any letter from Your 
Excellency. If it reaches us at all it will probably be through the channel 
of the New York Gazette.^ 

Since our letter of the 4th instant which inclosed a proposition from 
[Count Beniouski some circumstances have come to our knowledge] 
which induce us to [believe] that [altho' for the reasons stated in our 
letter he is not to be classed with common adventurers yet his professions 
and undertakings greatly exceed his resources for fulfiling them.] In 
particular we have decisive evidence that [(he) cannot command the aid 
of the French Court in raising and transporting his legion and it is of 
itself evident that no private funds can be equal to such an expence.] 
We do no injustice to [his character in adding that the effect of the rejection 
of his plan by Congress has betrayed a temper which is very far from 
enhancing our esteem for him.] ' 

The destination of the fleet which lately sailed from N. York is still 
unknown; nor have we rece'd a word of intelligence from any other 
quarter. 



P. S. 



539. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. i8th June, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . .' The trade with X. York begins to excite general indignation 
and threatens a loss of all our hard money. The continued drains which 
it makes from the bank must at least contract its utility, if it produces no 
greater mischief to it. The Legislature of N. Jersey are devising a remedy 
for this disgraceful and destructive traffic, and a Committee of Congress 
are also employed in the same work. I have little expectation that any 
adequate cure can be applied, whilst our foreign trade is annihilated and 
the enemy in New York make it an object to keep open this illicit channel.' 



[538]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Bland); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, III. 197 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, June 19, July 14, 18, 25 ; cf. no. 539, post. President Hanson's 
letter to the president of Pennsylvania, June 19, in compliance with the resolve of that 
date, is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. ; Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 560. 
"Words in square brackets are written in cipher. See nos. 515, 527, ante. 
[539]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 2og; Papers, I. 143. 

2 The first part of the letter relates to the capture of the mail (see no. 538, ante) 
and the consequent need for extending the use of cipher in their correspondence. 

3 See the Journals, June 14 (p. 333 n.), 21, July i, 11, 12, 17, and nos. 540, 542, 551, 
post. 



374 Continental Congress 

P. S. I have written to Mr. Jones. If he s'd not be at Richmond open 
the letter. 

[On a separate sheet:] If Mr. Jones s'd be at Richmond you will of 
course let him have a jx^rusal of the inclosed paj)ers etc. 

540. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia June 19th, 1782. 

This is Just to Inform you that I Arrived here the 17th Inst't. The 
Southern Mail was taken, a few days Since in which it was said were 
many Letters of Importance. 

I find great Complaints for want of Money, a very Considerable part 
of the Sj>ecie Imported, is carried to New York to purchase Goods of 
our Enemies which will have a direct Tendency, not only to drain the 
Country of Specie, to assist our Enemies and give Offence to our Friends, 
but (in my Opinion) to protract the War. the Number of Persons who 
feel the (private) benefit of this Trade is so great, tliat it is the Opinion 
of some any further Attempts to prevent the Same would be Idle. It is 
said a Vessel was lately Seized going from New Jersey to New York 
with i4,ooo£ Specie on board. ^ I hope New Hampshire will soon have 
a Representation in Congress as it is of much Importance not only to 
them, but to the Union that every State Should be Represented.' I believe 
great Dependance is made on Taxes from the Several States, but you 
will without doubt be particularly Informed on this Head, as well as 
others by the Committee from Congress. 

541. Charles Thomson to William Barton.^ 

Sir, 

I am much obliged for the perusal of the elements of Heraldry which 
I now return. I have just dipt into it so far as to be satisfied that it 
may afford a fund of entertainment and may be applied by a State to 
useful purposes. I am much obliged for your very valuable present of 
Fortescue " De Laudibus Legum Angliae," and shall be happy to have 
it in my power to make a suitable return. 

I enclose a copy of the Device by which you have displayed your skill 
in heraldic science, and which meets with general approbation. - 

June 24, 1782. 

[540]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 78. 

2 Cf. no. 539, ante, and no. 542, post. 

2 John Morin Scott wrote to Governor Clinton the same day and to the same 
eflfect, but reiterating his own purpose to return home (N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, 
no. 4604). It was doubtless this letter to which Clinton replied July 29 (Clinton Papers, 
VIII. 16), although Clinton there refers to "your Letter of the 19th Inst". 

[541]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, first ser., IX. 351; Classical Journal, XVIII. 
393- 

2 In the Proceedings of the Masachusetts Historical Society, as above noted, 
Thomson's letter is embodied in some papers of William Barton relating to the seal. The 
letter is preceded by some " Remarks on the Device of the Seal of the United States ", 
by Barton, and is followed by this note : 

" In June 1782, when Congress were about to form an armorial device for a great seal 
for the United States, Charles Thomson, Esq. then Secretary, with the Hon. Dr. Arthur 



June, 1782 876 

542. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. 25th June 1782, 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's favor of the 15th came safe to hand yesterday. The 
loss of the mail of the preceding week is the more regretted, as we under- 
stand that a packet from N. York for England which had been intercepted 
and carried into N. Carolina, made a part of it.^ .... 

The illicit trade with N. York under the encouragement of the enemy, and 
the obstruction of foreign trade has increased of late so far as to threaten 
great injury to the public finances. The Steps which have been taken 
by Congress on this subject will be transmitted to your Excellency by 
the President. It is also discovered that supplies of British goods are 
imported under collusive captures concerted between Vessels from N, 
York and Vessels fitted out on the neighbouring coasts. This part of the 
evil is more within the jurisdiction of Congress, and a remedy for it 
is now under consideration.' 



543. John T.wlor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia June 26th, 1782. 
Sir, 

I wrote you the 19th Instant Informing of my Arrival here on the 
17th etc. 

Genl. Carletons Commission as a Negociator etc. has been the Subject 
of much Conversation some time past. Congress have no Information on 
that Subject Except the Letter which was sent to his Excellency Genl. 
Washington Requesting permission to send his Secretary to Congress, 
on which they ordered that he Should not be permitted.^ .... I men- 
tioned to you in my last something respecting Our State's having a Vote 
in Congress, and as I think it to be of much Importance hope you will 
Excuse my Mentioning it again — besides the General and Obvious Reasons 
for our having a Vote, I could mention some particular and Important 

Lee and Elias Boudinot, members of Congress, called on me and consulted me on the 
occasion. The great seal, for which I furnished those gentlemen with devices, {as certified 
by Chas. Thomson, Esq.) was adopted by Congress on the 20th of June 1782. Mr. Thomson 
informed me, four days after, that they met with general approbation. W. Barton." 

In the Classical Journal Thomson's letter is quoted by M. E. Deutsch, in an article on 
" E Pluribus Unum ". For a note on earlier proceedings in Congress with regard to the 
seal see these Letters, vol. V., p. 149 n. Secretary Thomson's report is in the Journals. 
June 20. An editorial note (p. 340 n.) mentions the tentative devices (found in Papers 
Cont. Cong.) and points out the stages through which the matter passed in Congress. 

[542]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Bland) ; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, IIL 199 (extract). 

2 A passage summarizing a private letter of John Adams, Apr. 11, is here omitted. 

' See the Journals, June 21, Madison to Randolph June 25 {Writings, 1. 210), and 

Randolph to Bland July 19 {Bland Papers, II. 85). Cf. nos. 539, 540, ante, no. 551, post. 

[543]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8i B 80. 

2 See the Journals, May 14. In the first omitted passage Gilman speaks of the 
latest accounts from General Greene, in the second, of the news from Holland. 



376 Continental Congress 

Ones, but as the Mails are frequently Robbed prudence forbids it. I know 
it is very Expensive, and the difficulty of procuring money in New Hamp'e 
is great, but Permitt me to Say, I think it Ought to be an Object of the 
first Importance with the State — although the raising of Cont'l Troops 
and paying the Cont'l Tax is of great Importance, but Shall N H. raise 
men, and pay their Money and not have a Voice in the disposal 

544. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, July ist, 1782. 
Sir, 

We early after our arrival at this place acquainted your Excell'cy of 
Coll. Root's unexpected departure from Congress before we arrived," 
When the time for the appearance of the State of Connecticut in the 
great cause between them and Pensylvania was near at hand ; we foresaw 
a storm arising, but were in hopes there would have been so much candor 
exercised as not to urge a procedure in that cause untill Coll. Root's 
return, but when the day arrived the agents from Pensylvania appeared 
and urged with the greatest vehemence for an entry of the non appearence 
of the State of Connecticut, and that Congress immediately proceed ac- 
cording to the directions of the Articles of Confederation to nominate 
commissioners and have them struck of, so as to reduce them to the 
number assigned to hear, judge, and determine the cause, which must have 
been done by Pensylvania agents on the one hand, and our Pensylvania 
Secretary ^ on the other, whereby it may very easily be seen what a set 
of judges we should be left with to decide this most important controversy ; 
it was moved by one of the agents from Connecticut (tho not authorised 
without one of the others to appear), that by reason of Coll. Root's 
absence, by appointment of Congress on business of importance to the 
United States, that all proceedings in the cause be stayd till the blank 
day of July, when Coll. Root's return might be expected; this met with 
a surprising opposition, urging that every State must risque the conduct 
of their own agents, and that Coll. Root did not acquaint Congress with 
his agency for Connecticut in their cause, which if he had, they should 
not have sent him forward, and further that the Assembly of Connecticut 
was apprised of Coll. Root's return when he appeared before them and 
ought to have sent Dr. Johnson forward or appointed another; these 

[544]! Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., III. 362 (signed by Dyer and Ben- 
jamin Huntington). 

2 See nos. 529, 536, ante. See also Root to Trumbull, July 4, in Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Collections, seventh ser., III. 366. 

3 That is, Charles Thomson, secretary of Congress. Article IX. of the Confedera- 
tion provides that, in the event the parties to the controversy, " by their lawful agents ", 
shall fail to agree upon the commissioners to constitute a court for hearing and determining 
the matter in question, " congress shall name three persons out of each of the United States, 
and from the list of such persons each party shall alternately strike out one ", etc. Then it 
provides that, " if either party shall neglect to attend at the day appointed, without show- 
ing reasons, which congress shall judge sufficient, or being present shall refuse to strike, 
the congress shall proceed to nominate three persons out of each state, and the secretary 
of congress shall strike in behalf of such party absent or refusing ", etc. 



July, 1782 377 

debates have taken up 3 or 4 days in Congress and are still debating and 
undetermined ; but rather think they in general rather incline to have the 
matter lye without any determination untill Coll. Root's return, and it is 
without any doubt expected in the mean time that we write in the most 

pressing manner to hasten Mr Root's return as soon as possible 

We have also laid in our motion, according to instructions from our 
Assembly, for postponing the trial of this cause till after the close of the 
war, especially as many of our material exhibits are in England, but this 
is and will be violently opposed, as they urge the necessity of all disputes 
if possible being setled before that time, and indeavor to impress Congress 
with the ideas that Connecticut wish for delay, only to get a more full 
j>ossession of the country, etc., etc., and that they are willing to make 
such concessions with respect to the exhibits left in England, and are 
originals, as may supersede the necessity of obtaining of them from 
thence, provided we produce authenicated copys of them, or otherwise 
satisfy them of the real contents,* .... 

545. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Private Philadelphia, July ist, 1782. 

Dear Sir, 

.... General Scott seems determined to attend the Legislature and 
I fear nothing I can offer will keep him here. Mr. I'Hommedieu will, 
therefore, be called upon to take his tour unless it should be more con- 
venient to Col. Floyd. I must trouble your Excellency to enforce on the 
Legislature the Justice of returning me the money I advanced for my 
support in Congress, especially as I borrowed a part of it, for which 
I am pressed. I am in advance about £800. If I could get half that 
Sum, it would make me for the present easy with my Friend who has 
assisted me, and enable me to purchase some necessities with which my 
Family cannot dispense." .... 

546. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

My dear Sir, Philada. July 2d, 1782. 

The confidential and circumstantial communications in your favor of 

the 20th of June have afforded me much pleasure. Those which relate 

to the scheme of [garbling the delegation] were far from surprising me. 

*See the Journals, June 24-28, July i, 16, Aug. 12, 14, 23, 28; also no. 544, ante, 
nos. 551, 566, 586, post. The record of the proceedings of the court which sat on the con- 
troversy at Trenton, Nov. 12 to Dec. 30, is in the Journals under Jan. 3, 1783. A part of the 
proceedings is in Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 696-724, wherein are found also numerous other 
documents relating to the case. As appertaining to the postponement of the case in Con- 
gress at this time, see a letter from Joseph Reed to Henry Osborne, June 25 {ibid., p. 563). 
A succeeding passage relates to the letters of Silas Deane. See nos. 430, 432, 522, 529," 
ante. 

[545]^ Clinton Papers, VIII. 13. 

2 Duane wrote to Mrs. Duane June 29 : " I got safely and in health to this City 
last Fryday week." N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. 79. He took his seat in Congress 
Monday, June 24. 

[546]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 211 ; Papers, I. 145 
28 



378 Continental Congress 

In a conversation with Mr. J. before he left Philada. it was our joint 
inference from a review of certain characters and circumstances that such 
a scheme would be tried. 

The prevailing temper of the [present delegation is too little flexible to 
the factious and vindictive feelings of a partiailar member of it] to be 
relished by [him and his adherents. No delegate] who refuses to [league 
with him in the war against the financier] must [expect to be long at 
ease in his post. The] disappointment [in the affair of the flags will 
increase the venom against the Minister. The first] conversation [I had 
with the doctor after his return] clearly [betrayed how much it rankled 
in his bosom.] ^ . . . . 

One article of our late communications from l^'rance was that the 
interest [on the certificates is no longer to be continued], and that pro- 
vision [must be made] within ourselves. This has caused great commotion 
and clamor among that class of public creditors against Congress, who 
they believe or affect to believe have transferred the funds to other uses.^ 
The best salve to this irritation, if it could with truth be applied, w'd be 
a notification that all the States had granted the impost of 5 pr Ct. and 
that the collection and appropriation of it would immediately commence. 
It is easy to see that the States whose jealousy and delays withhold this 
resource from the U. S. will soon be the object of the most bitter re- 
proaches from the public creditors. Rhode Island and Georgia are the 
only States in this predicament, unless the acts of Virginia and Maryland 
should be vitiated by the limitations with which they are clogged. 

No step has yet been taken in the instructions prepared before your 

departure. I expostulated a few days ago with Dr. W n on the 

subject and prevailed on him to move in the business, but his motion 
only proved the watchfulness and inflexibility of those who think they 
advance towards their own objects in the same proportion as they recede 
from those of Virginia. I have since shewn him the report and he is a 
confirmed advocate both for the innocence and expediency of it.* .... 

Congress are much perplexed by the non-appearance of Connecticut at 
the time appointed for the meeting of her x\gents and those of Pennsyl- 
vania. We wish to avoid leaving her any pretext to revive the controversy 
and yet the reasons for her neglect cannot be pronounced sufificient. Her 
adversary professes a strong jealousy that she means by every artifice to 

2 Bracketed words are written in cipher. This paragraph of the letter is not in the 
printed texts. In his letter of June 20 (Library of Congress, Ac. 1081) Randolph mentions 
that a design appeared to have been formed " against the reelection of you and myself 
to Congress" (the words are in cipher), with further remarks upon the proceedings in 
the assembly, pointing to " the two Lees " (cipher) as particularly concerned in the attack. 

3 See the Journals, June 26, and nos. 550, 560, 565, post. Oilman wrote to President 
Weare, July 3 : " Several of the States have begun to pay Money towards their proportion 
of the 8 Million Dollars. Congress have Received the act from Massachusetts granting 
a duty of five per cent, but nothing can be done in this business at present as the State 
of Rhode Island have not passed any act for that purpose." N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare 
Papers, XI. 21. See the Journals, July i (pp. 361, 366 n.). 

* The allusion is to the instructions proposed to be sent to the commissioners for 
negotiating peace. The long-drawn-out course of these instructions is set forth under 
no- 599. note 2, post. The motion of Witherspoon to which Madison refers was doubtless 
that of June 17. See also nos. 562, 571, 572, 578, 579, 585, 590, 593, 597, post. 



July, 1782 379 

parry a decision during the war; and it cannot be denied that appear- 
ances but too well authorize it.** 



547. Arthur Lee to Francis Dana/ 

Phila'a July 6th, 1782. 

Our embarrassments for money are great; not that there is any real 
want of it, but because by the Constitution of a Bank, and until lately a 
most prosperous Commerce, in this Tory City, has accumulated all the 
money here, and consequently disenabled the other states from paying 
taxes to support the war. The residence of Congress in the bosom of 
Toryism, and the encouragement given to them, is as impolitic as it is 
unjust. It puts such advantages into their hands, as in case the war should 
take a turn, may enable them to deliver us up tied and bound to the 
enemy. It is extreme political weakness to suppose, that because these 
men have changed their professions, that they have therefore abandoned 
their principles. These are what a tory never changes, and though he 
may make them bend occasionally to his interest, yet whenever an oppor- 
tunity offers, you will be sure to find him the same enemy to public 
liberty. 

I am sorry that the attempts you mention have in any measure succeeded ; 
tho' they have failed of the whole intent, which was to put the negotiations 
of peace in corrupt and servile hands only. The wickedness of that old 
Man (Franklin) is beyond example; and his good fortune in escaping 
the punishment due to his crimes, is as extraordinary. 

It may be proper to inform you, that the present Secretary for Foreign 
Affairs, (R. R. Livingston)^ is a decided partizan of Dr. Franklin, and 
an enemy to Mr. Adams. Like a number of other parrots here, he praises 
the former by rote, and undertakes to tutor the other. Whatever you see 
or receive from him you may consider as dictated by the French Minister. 
He made him what he is, and policy, or gratitude, keeps him from disobey- 
ing or renouncing his maker. 

548. John Lowell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Phila. July 8th 1782. 
Dea^ Sir, 

.... Your Friends Mr. Izard and Mr. Lee are both now in Congress, 
and I am happy in assuring you they appear to me to be two of the ablest 
and best of our Counsellors ; we have had few Measures attejnpted that 
are pointed against our Friends abroad, but I find Jealousy and Attention 
is necessary to prevent the Introduction of them. Soon after my Arrival 
a most disagreable Distinction was attempted by making the Salary of 

'" See no. 544, ante. 
[547]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 32, vol. II., f. 86 (extracts). 

2 The name appears thus in the copy but is probably an interpolation of Sparks. 
[548] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



380 Continental Congress 

Mr. Adams much less than those of Dr. F and Mr. J. under Pretence of 
his being at a Court less expensive. I ventured to enquire into the Evi- 
dence of the Fact, and tho I was tho't and almost called an Upstart, 
persisted till a Recommitment was made and on Enquiry it turns out that 
the Hague is the most expensive of the three Courts, and so this matter 
ended ; ^ within a few Days I think a much deeper Plan has been laid to 
embarrass his Negociations by instructing him not to consent to an 
Article in the proposed Treaty which gives the Subjects of the U. 
Provinces the same Rights as to holding and conveying Estates, as the 
French Subjects have, altho it is almost certain that the Plan of a Treaty 
has been comunicated long since to the Dutch, but the Matter will I believe 
end like the former.' We have heard very little lately from the Financier, 
he has certainly been very usefuU and therefore with the great Powers 
given him, should be watched 

549. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia July 9th 1782. 
Sir, 

Inclosed is a Letter for CoUo. Bartlett. I am Sensible you consider 
your-self under Some Obligations, to lay Letters Officially Received, 
lief ore the Court, and as it might, (perhaps) be Improper to lay Such a 
Letter before the public, I thought proper to direct it to him. If he Should 
not be present when you Receive it, you will please (after perusal) to 
Seal it.^ 

550. John Taylor Oilman to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia July 9th, 1782. 
Sir, 

I take this Opport'y to write you by Mr. Smith of Boston. The United 
States being informed by Doctr. Franklin's Letters, that France did not 
hold themselves obliged to pay any more Bills for Interest due on the 
Loan Office Certificates and that they would be protested if drawn, a 
Committee was appointed to Consider of this Subject and report to Con- 
gress, the Substance of which report was that no more Bills Should be 
drawn for payments of Interest, while this report was under Considera- 
tion a Memorial was presented Signed by some of the Citizens requesting 
that Congress would postpone their Determination on this Subject untill 
they could have a Meeting of the Holders of Loan Office Certificates. 

- See the Journals, Jan. 2, May 9, 28, 29, June 3, 5, 14. Cf. the report of a com- 
mittee (appointed July 25) in the Journals, Nov. 20, and Madison's Notes of Debates, 
Nov. 21 (Journals, XXIII. 850). 

8 See the Journals, July 8, 17 ; cf. article 6 of the treaty with the Netherlands, in 
the Journals, Jan. 23, 1783. 

I549P N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, XI. 22. 

2 The letter is no. 550, post. 
[550] 1 Me. Hist. Soc, Revolution, no. 3. 



July, 1782 381 

you will see by the News Paper what the Citizens have done, some are 
for appropriating the five per Cent Impost for the purpose of paying the 
Interest on the whole Loans, others for funding those Loans which were 
made prior to the first of March 1778 and that this Interest shall be first 
discharged, but How can Congress appropriate a fund which is not yet 
granted to them, what will take place I cannot say.^ .... 

I must repeat that I think a Vote here (though very Expensive) should 
be an Object of the first Consideration Both as it may be of Service to 
the Genl. Interest of all the States and the particular Interest of New 
Hampshire, but as I think I have discharged my Duty in this respect 
I shall Endeavour when I write the State in future to find some other 
Subject, the Delegates from Carolina and Georgia have Money advanced 
them out of the public Treasury agreeably to a Resolution of Congress 
fussed about One Year agone. those who have Families here are to have 
200 Dollars per month, those who have not, 150 Dollars per month, to 
bear their Expences, which is to be Charged to their respective States, 
there are five from South Carolina and Three from Georgia now present.^ 

a large Committee are appointed, to report some plan for lessening our 
Expences, but what they will be able to do I cannott Say.* The post Sets 
out from this place on Wednesdays. I Suppose my Letters do not reach 
Exeter untill the Friday Fortnight after Sending them, perhaps this may 
reach you by the Same Post as my Letter to the President of the 3d 
Instant as Mr. Smith will carry it directly to Boston 

551. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. 9th July, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your two favors of the 27th were reed, this morning 

The trade with the enemy at N. Y. has at length I am told produced 
spirited and successful exertions among the people of N. Jersey for sup- 
pressing it. The same alarm and exertions seem to be taking place in 
Connecticut. The ordinance of Congress against collusive captures on 
water has not yet passed. The mode of proof and the distribution of the 

2 See the Journals, May 24, June 13, 26, July i (p. 365). The petition referred to 
was doubtless the letter of Blair McClenachan, John Ewing, and others, read in Congress 
July 3 (see the Journals, p. 373 n.). A remonstrance from the same source was presented 
July 8, and a report upon it, by the superintendent of finance, dated July 29, is in the 
Journals under Aug. 5 (also in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 619). Meanwhile the sub- 
ject had been under consideration July 22 and 25. See no. 546, ante, nos. 560, 565, 575, post, 
and the Journals, Sept. 9, Nov. 20. 

3 See the Journals, July 10, 30, 1781. Earlier action of that nature had been taken 
Sept. 29, 1780. See vol. V., nos. 458, 459- 

* The committee had evidently been appointed prior to June 17, for on that day 
was referred to it a memorial of Simeon DeWitt, geographer. The committee then con- 
sisted of Cornell, Lowell, Bland, Boudinot, Wright, Smith, and Madison. July 10 the 
committee was instructed to bring in a specific report, which was done July 11, and the 
committee is then named as Cornell, Osgood, Izard, Bland, and Duane. Previously, on 
June 25 and 26, related matters had been referred to a committee of this same personnel 
and therefore presumably the committee on reduction of expenditures. Definitely char- 
acterized, and with the personnel named as above, the committee made reports July 24, 
Aug. I, 7. Sept. 3, Oct. 23, 29, Nov. 12, 18. See nos. 567, 575, 585, 618, post. 

[551]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings. I. 215 ; Papers, I. 147. 



882 Continental Congress 

effects, occasioned some diversity of opinion, and a recommitment ensued. 
I am not very sanguine that any thing of efficacy will be done in the 
matter.'^ .... 

Mr. Jones writes me that he proposes to set off about the 20th instt. 
When will you follow him? 

552. Benjamin Huntington to Andrew Huntington,^ 

Philadelphia July 13th, 1782. 
Sir, 

I Reed, of Letter and Papers Inclosed and laid the same before a very 
Candid Committee who Reported that as the Account appeared to be 
settled by Col. Trumbull the same be laid on the Table,^ which indeed 
was the fate I expected it would meet with. Congress in the year 1780 
on a Long Debate Refused to Reconsider Accounts, once settled in Conti- 
nental Money upon Principle that a Debt being once extinguished by 
Payment with Consent of the Party no further Demand in Law or Equity 
could Remain, and furthermore that a Reconsideration of Matters of that 
Kind would be endless and Impossible. Another Difficulty in your Case 
is that Congress cannot settle with Individuals who Contracted with the 
Heads, or agents of the Several Departments — this would likewise be 
an Endless Business. It is a great Pity your Account is Closed in the 
manner it is. By the Resolves of Congress of the 26th of August 1780, 
1 6th of March and 22d of May 1781 Rules are Given for Settling with 
the Creditors of the United States for Supplies furnished the Army. If 
Col. Trumbull has it in his Power he will certainly make the Just Allowance. 

No public News of Importance but what appears in the Papers. 

Congress are informed that the Interest of Continental Loans can no 
longer be Paid in France, the Holders of Certificates in this City have 
met and Petitioned that another mode of Payment may be Provided and 
that the Interest of Monies Loaned since the first of March 1778 may be 
also Paid. The Matter is yet in Agitation.^ 

553. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philad. 1 6th July, 1782. 
Private 
Dear Sir, 

. . . .^ General Scott retains his Resolution to visit his Family and I 
shall be in pain to see the state so soon again unrepresented. I, therefore, 
hope one of my Colleagues will come forward without loss of time. 

2 See no. 542, ante, and the Journals, July 11, 12, 17. 
[552]iMass. Hist. Soc., Wolcott Papers. 

2 The Journals, July 2, and no. 537, note 2, ante. 

3 See nos. 546, 550, ante. 
[553] 1 Clinton Papers, VIII. 14, 

2 An omitted paragraph speaks of his need for reimbursement. 



July, 1782 383 

I wrote largely to your Excellency by last post but the Letter was inter- 
cepted. If Sir Guy does not publish it, he will have more politeness than 
his Predecessors. I am in no pain for the Contents. The most * * * ^ 
subject was the Light in which the Declarations of Several Legislatures 
on the Charge of the British ministry and their fixed purpose to adhere 
* * * to our federal Union and National Treaties, was considered here ; 
and an enumeration of some of the good Consequences which may be ex- 
pected from this seasonable and Judicial measures. They will undoubtedly 
occur to your Excellency and need not be enlarged upon. A long letter 
to General Schuyler giving an Account of my wants and some strictures 
on publick affairs was intercepted at the same time. Nothing can be 
achieved from it that will give the Enemy Information or pleasure: 
Unless they can be gratified at the pecuniary misfortunes of an Individual. 

554. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia July 16, 1782. 
Sir, 

We had the honor of receiving your Excellencys Letter of the 6th, 
together with one of the same date from the Clerk of the Council, en- 
closing the Resolutions of the Assembly on the Supplies requested from 
his most Christian Majesty. 

The Resolutions we immediately transmitted to the Minister of France. 

We have informd the Delegates of S. Carolina, of what your Excellency 
mentions. Those of N. Carolina are not here." Still we are without any 
intelligence from Europe or the Islands. Genl. Washington and Count 
Rochambau are at present in this City, to consult on the operations of the 
Campaign ' 

555. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. July 1 6th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I fully concur in the change of cypher which you suggest, and 
understand the reference for a key-word. I have been in some pain from 
the danger incident to the cypher we now use. The enemy I am told have 
in some instances published their intercepted cyphers. On our first meet- 

3 The omissions indicated by asterisks here and just below are in the text in Clinton 
Papers. 

[554]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Bland and Lee); Cal. Va. State 
Papers, IIL 217. 

- The governor's letter of July 6 is in Official Letters, IIL 262. The letter stated 
that the French troops, then on their march northward, had with them many negroes 
thought to belong to North Carolina and South Carolina, and requested that the matter 
be brought to the attention of the delegates from those states in order that the negroes 
might be reclaimed when the troops arrived in Philadelphia, 

3 The delegates refer briefly to the propositions of Sir Guy Carleton. See no. 556, 
post. 

[555]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 216; Papers, I. 149. 



384 Continental Congress 

ing I propose to prepare against another separation a cypher framed 
by Mr. Livingston on a more enlarged and complicated plan than ours, 
of which he has furnished me several blank printed copies.^ .... 

Genl. Washington and Ct. Rochambeau met here on Saturday evening. 
The object of their consultation is among the arcana of war.^ .... 

Messrs. Montgomery and Root returned yesterday from their Eastern 
deputation. They have not yet made their report. The former complains 
that several [of the States] * are [appropriating the taxes which they lay 
as their quota of the eight million to internal uses. He owns that the 
knowledge he has obtained of the case] has [changed his mind on that 
head] and [that if the ground was to be trodden over again he should 
take a very diflferent part in Congress. He adds] that the current opinion 
is that a vessel arrived at Quebec brings a [royal charter] for [Vermont] 
they the people there are [in much confusion] and [many of them dis- 
posed to reunite] with [N. Hampshire.] A letter to Mr, Livingston 
from Mr, [Livermore] corroborates this goods news. It imports that a 
very unexpected turn had taken place in the temper of the people [between 
the river] and [the ridge], that they were [petitioning New H, to be 
restored to] that [State] and that measures would be taken in concert 
with [New York] for that purpose. The revolution in the [sentiments 
of Montgomery] may be owing in part to the [new relation in] which 
[Pennsylvania stands] to [Connecticut] which he says is governed on 
this occasion by interested [individuals]. The controversy between Pena, 
and Connecticut will I suppose be now resumed and put into a course 
for decision, the return of Mr. Root having removed the cause which 
suspended it. 

In the beginning of this month Committees were appointed in pursuance 
of a previous Resolution for such an appoint't every half year, to examine 
into the proceedings of the several executive departments and make report 
to Congress. This plan was adopted not only to discharge the general 
duty of Congress and to satisfy their constituents but also that such re- 
ports might shelter in some degree faithful officers from unmerited 
imputations and suspicions, as well as expose to just censure those of 
an opposite character. For reasons which will occur to you [Doctor Lee 
was put into] ^ the department of Finance. The [Doctor] is endeavoring 

2 He had just spoken of the capture of the mail (cf. no. 557, note 2, post) . Randolph 
wrote to Madison July 5 : "I wish that on future occasions of speaking of individuals we 
may use the cypher, which we were taught by Mr. Lovell. Let the Key-word be the name 
of the negro boy, who used to wait on our common friend Mr. Jas. Madison. Billy can 
remind you should you be at a loss for it." Madison noted at the foot of Randolph's letter, 
" Probably Cw/'irf" (Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081). See this editor's note 
on " Ciphers of the Revolutionary Period ", Am. Hist. Rev., XXII. 331. Madison made 
use of this cipher, which he calls the "Lovell" cipher (with the key-word "Cupid"), in 
letters to Randolph as late as Oct. 15, although he occasionally employed also the 
" official " cipher, sometimes using both ciphers in the same letter. Randolph was not how- 
ever able to read the passages written in the Lovell cipher. See no. 599, post. 

3 A passage follows relative to the correspondence between Carleton and Wash- 
ington which is essentially the same as that in the letter to Pendleton (no. 556, post). 

■* In this passage words in square brackets are in the " official " cipher. Concerning 
the mission of Montgomery and Root to the eastward and that of Rutledge and Clymer 
southward, see nos. 512, 515, 516, 518, 519, ante. 

•' Beginning at this point words in square brackets are written in the " Lovell " 
cipher. 



July, 1782 385 

I am told contrary to the object in view to go into an investigation of 
the [contracts in trade] allowed by Congress. 

All the movements of [Doctor] are pointed directly or circuitously 
either to [Morris or Franklin.] This cypher I find is extremely tedious 
and liable to errors. 

Genl. Carlton in his letter to Genl. Washington above quoted, says with 
respect to Lippencut only that the Ct. had passed their judgment and that 
as soon as the length of the proceedings would admit a copy should be 
sent to him. It is inferred that this murderer will not be given up, and 
consequently a vicarious atonement must be made by the guiltless Asgill.^ 



556. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. July 1 6th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Genl. Carlton in a correspondence with Genl. W. yesterday laid 
before Congress complains much of legal proceedings agst. adherents to 
the British cause, as Traitors, adopts the maxim that " in a civil war 
between people of one empire there can during the contest be no 
traitors at all," and asks a passport for Genl. Robinson and Mr. Ludlow 
to confer and settle arrangements on that idea. He at the same time 
and from a similar policy, proposes in order to remove our objection 
agst. exchanging B. soldiers [for] Amer: seamen that the latter shall 
be free and the former restrained from serving agst. the /j Provinces 
for one year, within which he is sanguine an end will be put to the 
calamities of the present war.^ .... 

557- John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia July 17th 1782. 
Sir, 

. . . .^ Lieut. Blanchard was with me some days Since, he Informed 
that he had come by the Appointment of the Officers and of the New 
Hampshire Line to see if a Settlement for their Wages and Subsistance 

^ In the Madison Papers the last two paragraphs above are repeated (improperly) 
in the letter of July 30 (no. 571, post). 
[556]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Madison Papers. 

- Carleton's letters to Washington, June 20 and July 7. are in Washington's Writ- 
ings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 537, 539. Washington's reply to the former, June 22, is ibid., 
p. 312; cf. his letter to John Dickinson June 19, ibid., p. 310. Washington's letter to Con- 
gress, dated July 9 {Writings, ed. Ford, X. 41), was read in Congress July 15 and referred 
to Witherspoon, Madison, and Rutledge (Journais, p. 388 n.). The report of this com- 
mittee, which was brought in July 29, was referred to another committee (Lowell, Cornell, 
and Madison), which made a report Aug. 12. See also the Journals, Aug. 7 (p. 456 n.), 
9 (p. 460 n.), 26 (p. 531 n.), Sept. 6, 9, 16, Oct. 16, and nos. 566, 585, 588, 590, post. Con- 
cerning the question of exchanging soldiers for seamen see nos. 466, 479, ante, no. 488 post 
[SSlV N. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, XI. 26. 

2 In an omitted passage Gilman speaks of the capture of the mail, which " was 
taken about Twenty five Miles from this City, on this Side Trentown by a party of about 
Twelve Men, it was about Noon when they seized the Post-Rider, and One part of them 
Carryed him to the Woods and kept him Confined untill the Evening, while others carried 
off the Mail ". 



Continental Congress 

Money could be made here, after Inquiry he says it will be done, that he 
is going to New Hampshire and shall there Endeavour a Settlement to 
the first of August 1780, and shall then apply to the Financier for a 
Settlement of the Sums due after that time, I have made Enquiry and 
Cannot find that any State has settled with their Troops for Depreciation 
etc. further than August 1780. (Excepting Massachusetts and am not 
particularly Informed what they have done.) the General Idea seems to 
be that their is not any Resolutions of the United States Requiring the 
Several States to make Settlements after that time, and perhaps it would 
be more Equal if the whole from that time was to be Settled by the 
United States.^ a Report prevails here, that the Enemy have Evacuated 
Charlestown and Savannah, and that they have Burned those Towns, but 
the Accounts are not Authenticated. 

558. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 18 July 1782. 

My dear Sir, 

I wrote you a long Letter which was intercepted with the Post and has 
contributed to the Amusement of Sir Guy Carleton, and if he follows 
the Example of his great Predecessors will in due time be served up to the 
Publick a la Rivington. Of this Epistle I kept no Copy but it contains 
some political Strictures on publick affairs and some Reflections on my 
own Circumstances. Unless it is a Reproach to become poor in a good 
Cause I shall have no Occasion to blush for a single Sentiment tho' I 
have written it with unreserved Confidence to a Friend from whom I 
with hold nothing.^ .... 

We have no Accounts from Europe since and indeed some time before 
my arrival here. Three Vessels arrivd last night from the Havarmah not 
withstanding this Coast is so strictly guarded. One of them has imported 
a considerable Sum of money 

559. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, July 19th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We have been honored with your Excellencys letter of the — ulto. and 
the inclosed resolutions of the Hon'e the general Assembly.^ 

You may be assured that proper attention wall always be paid on our 
part to any Instruction which that honorable body may think proper to 
honor us with, and particularly to those now received. We have a proper 
sense of the principels and justice on which they are founded, and are 
fully impressed with the importance of the objects that the state wish to 

3 See nos. 575, 659, post. 
[558]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 563. 

2 Cj. no. 553, ante. Duane proceeds to summarize the contents of his intercepted 
letter. 

[559PR- I- Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1781-1782, p. 108; Staples. R. I. in Cmt. 
Cong., p. 376 ; R. I. Recs., IX. 578. 

2 The resolutions of the assembly are ibid., pp. 561-563. 



Jtdy, 1782 387 

obtain. Yet such is our embarrassed situation that we dare not at present 
flatter you that we shall be soon able to obtain that justice which is due 
to the State on account of the Old money or back lands. At the same time 
we take the liberty to assure you that we will endeavor to obtain those 
desirable objects by embracing every favorable moment 

Congress has been imployed for a long time in the common business 
that daily presents its self, without doing any thing that particularly de- 
serves your notice. There are several Committees that have business of 
consequence under consideration on which it is probable they will soon 
report 

His Excellency the Commander in Chief has been a Week in this City. 
His jorney to this place was in consequence of a previous appointment 
to meet the Count De Rochambeau, their meeting was according to the 
appointment. Several Committees of Congress have had conferrences with 
the General since he has been in this place on business of importance And 
we have the pleasure to assure you that we have every reason to suppose 
that the most perfect harmony subsists between him and Congress at this 
time. His stay from the Army will be short ' 

560. Charlks Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

178,, Monday, July 2,. ""'^ "' ^3. 1782.] 

The reports of the Com'e on a report of the Sujjer intend 't of Finances 
relative to his stopping the Drawing of bills for interest which was an 
order of the day taken up and debated for some time and postponed.^ 
The report of the Com'e on the hospital debated and recommitted.^ 

Tuesday, Jidy 2^rd. 

The ordinance for regulating the Post office under debate on the second 
reading, a great part recommitted.* 

561. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia July 23d, 1782. 

The Letter of the nth with which your Excellency honord us, came 
safe with the enclosd Resolves, which we shall lay before Congress. 

3 The leUer is signed by Ezekiel Cornell and David Howell. Howell had taken 
his seat June 7. On June 23 he wrote to Moses Brown of Providence, narrating something 
of his contacts in Philadelphia. Of Congress he remarked only, " My present business 
engrosses my attention ". R. I. Hist. See., Moses Brown Papers. 
[560 j^N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 63. 

2 See no. 549, ante, and no. 565, post. 

3 The debate July 22 is not mentioned in the Journals, but action on the report was 
taken July 23, and it appears from an endorsement on the report that the committee had 
been appointed before May 15. See the Journals, June to, July 23 (p. 412 n.). A gen- 
eral plan for the medical department had been adopted Jan. 3. 

* See no. 566, post. A committee appointed Mar. i (see the Journals, p. 1140.) 
reported an ordinance which was referred to another committee (see the Journals, July 12), 
and the latter committee brought in a modified measure July 19. The ordinance was brought 
up for a second reading Oct. 2 and adopted Oct. 18. Concerning a supplemental ordinance 
see the Journals. Oct. 24, 25, 28, Nov. 27, Dec. 2, 4. 6, 19, 20, 24. 

1561]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison and Lee) ; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, HL 227. 



388 Continental Congress 

The Super-intendant's Contract, for the main Army, is ten pence |)ensyl- 
vania curr'y per Ration, which is 25 pr. Ct. less than what your Excellency 
mentions. 

We shall make the application, you recommend, to Congress. No In- 
structions have yet reachd us on the important jxjints, which were stated 
to the Assembly for that purpose.^ .... 

562, James Madison to Edmund Randolph.* 

Philada, 2^ July 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I have at length the pleasure of presenting you with certain tho' not 
official intelligence of the recognition of our Independence by the States 
General. This event with other interesting particulars is contained in the 
inclosed gazettes. Among its salutary consequences to this country I hope 
the people of Virga. will not be inattentive to its influence on the value 
of its staple, on which it is very probable speculations will be attempted. 

The news from Holland has much emboldened the [enemies of France. 
Doctor Lee declared] ^ that it might be considered as the [ei)och of our 
emancipation.] Yesterday I was reminded [by Izzard] that [Franklin 
was interested] in restoring the [back lands to the crown.] Soon [after 
I was shewn by Lee a proposition for reconsidering the] commission and 

[instructions for peace.] The plan is to [exclude F n and J y and 

to] with [draw] the others from the [direction of France.] The [notes] of 

[M s are also] to be [attacked.] These and some other [symptoms] 

strongly [portend a revival of party heats.] I earnestly wish we had 
[your aid] in [repressing them.] 

General Washington is still here. I have nothing to add to my last 
on the subject of Lippencot and Asgil 

2 Harrison's letter is in Official Letters, III. 267. Enclosed with it was a resolution 
of the assembly " disaproveing of the alteration of the mode appointed by the Confedera- 
tion for apportioning each States quota of the tax etc ". One part of the letter related to 
the expense of garrisoning the towns of York and Gloucester. See Harrison's letter to 
Washington the same day (ibid., p. 265), also the Journals, July 24, and nos. 570, 581, 589, 
post. Touching the problem of expenditures for supplies, the governor remarks that " the 
extravagunt mode of finding them with specific articles furnish'd by the Country is laid 
aside and they are now supported by contract with a compleat Continental ration for 
tenpence, this may be thought high with You but we look upon it as moderate. If the 
Financier does not approve it He may take it on Himself after December at which time the 
Contract will end ". 

On May 7, on a motion of Madison, Congress had appointed a committee "to confer 
with the Superintendant of finance and Secretary at war, on the practicability and means 
of procuring supplies for the southern army by contracts ". The committee then designated 
was composed of Rutledge, Bland, and Osgood, but on June 3 Ramsay was substituted for 
Rutledge. The committee made a report June 21, wherein is summarized a letter from the 
superintendent of finance to the committee. This letter, without date, is printed in S. C. 
Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 74. The committee to which the letter is addressed is 
there named as Bland, Ramsay, and Izard ; but if Izard had taken the place of Osgood 
on the committee the Journals do not record the change. In consequence of that report the 
superintendent of finance was instructed to report to Congress the causes which had pre- 
vented the southern army from being supplied by contract. Morris's report in compliance 
with this order is in the Journals, July i. 

[562] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, II. 220; Papers, 1. 153. 

2 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. " F ^n ", " J ^y ", and 

" M— — s ", below, are Franklin, Jay, and Morris. 



July, 1782 

563. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia July 24th 1782. 
Sir, 

The Letter which you did me the Honour to write on the 8th Instt. I 
receiv'd on Monday the 22d together with the Inclosures. I am Sorry to 
hear that a Delegate is not Immediately coming forward, but as I have 
in Sundry Letters (both public and private) so strongly urged that the 
State should be represented, It will be Unnecessary for me to Say any 
thing further on that Subject, Excepting that almost every Day furnishes 
me with Additional reasons for desireing it. That Mr. Adams is receiv'd 
by the United Provinces as a Minister from the United States is fully 
Credited, but there has not been any Official Accounts from him of a 
late Date. 

I Expect to have an Oppt'y the last of next Week to write you by a 
private Conveyance when (as I think it my duty) I shall give you Every 
Information in my power 

564. Arthur Lee to James Warren.^ 

[_ca. July 23, 1782.] 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the ist ult. reachd me safely 

By the absolute order of France, Dr. Franklin and Mr. Jay were joind 
in commission with Mr. Adams for negociating a Peace. At this ver>' 
time Congress had the fullest evidence and conviction that Dr. Franklin 
was both a dishonest and incapable man. Mr. Laurens and Mr. Jefferson 
were added, but the first was a prisoner, and the latter woud not go. 
Mr. Jay has with a very becoming spirit desird to be left out of a Com- 
mission, which is accompanied with Instructions to obey ultimately the 
opinion of the french Ministers. This he states, as in his apprehension, 
so humiliating to the Commissioners, so disgraceful and injurious to 
America that he cannot submit to it. I have movd in vain for a recon- 
sideration of the Instructions. The yoke is riveted upon us, and the 
Man who I am sure sold us in the negociation with France, is the sole 
adjunct with Mr. Adams, in a negociation on which every thing that is 
dear and honorable to us depend. He, good man, felt no qualms at such 
a commission, no sense of dishonor or injury to his Country. On the 
contrary he expressed the utmost alacrity in accepting it, and I believe 
most cordially ; since it puts him in the way of receiving money, which 
is the God of his Idolatry. 

The French, therefore, are to make a peace for us; we have presumd 
only to desire Independance ; but whether it shall be on secure and honor- 
able terms, whether by the stipulations annexd to it we shall participate 
in the Fishery, in the navigation of the Missisippi, [or] in the western 

[563]^ Library of Congress, N. H. Papers. 
[564]^ Warren-Adams Letters, II. 172. 



'J 90 Continental Congress 

territory, whether conditions trenching nearer, and more shamefully on 
our rights will accompany the naked and nugatory assertion of Inde- 
pendance, is in the sovereign arbitration of the french Court. To judge 
what is for our own interest, to instruct our Plenipotentiaries, for them 
to think and act for us, are treason against the Alliance, by which we 
were acknowledgd independent and sovereign. In short, the most servile 
display of the most servile principles, is what alone must entitle us to the 
patronage of our great and generous Protector. This was not the senti- 
ment, or language, that commenced the revolution, and I can pledge myself 
it is not the sentiment or language that will bring it to a happy issue. But 
there seems to be no public here to appeal to. Sordid pursuits and servile 
attachments have apparently absorbd all the Faculties of our fellow 
Citizens. In the last resort, I hope the jealousy of G. Britain and of the 
other Powers in Europe will prevent France from abusing the power 
which we have thus basely and imprudently confided to her.- 

Spain has behavd towards us with very little wisdom or decency ; but 
it is much to be suspected that the French are at the bottom of it ; inso- 
much that a well-informed person on the spot, writes thus : " I have 
many reasons for believing that the french Court does not wish to see 
us declard independent by other Nations lest we shoud become less manage- 
able as we become less dependent on her for support." I have endeavord 
to inculcate this truth into those to whom it woud be useful, and yet they 
constantly act in opposition to it. 

The rapacity of a certain person after power and profit, and the little 
caution or wisdom that governs appointments are the reasons for the 
accumulation of Offices in an unprincipled and suspected Individual. * 
The distress of our Finances which he has the art of colouring high, 
and plentiful promises of relief from his wonderful abilities, operate like 
a charm upon weak minds 

565. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates/ 

[July 24, 25, 1782.] 
Wednesday, July 24. 

Mr. Lee made the following motion. 

" That the Commissions of the 15 of June, 1781, appointing ministers 
plenipotentiary to negotiate a treaty of peace with Great Britain, together 
with the instructions given to the said Commissioners be reconsidered." ^ 

Mr. Bland informed the house that he had always been against the in- 
structions so far as they obliged the ministers ultimately to govern them- 
selves by the advice of France, and therefore he seconded the motion for 
reconsideration. An objection was made to his seconding the reconsidera- 
tion as he had acknowledged he had voted agst. the instructions. The 
objection was deemed valid, whereupon after sometime 

2 See no. 565, post. 

8 The allusion is to Robert Morris. See no. 562, ante. 
[565]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 63. 

2 This motion is found in the Journals (p. 415). Cf. the motion of Root and Lee 
Aug. 8. See no 564, ante. 



July, 1782 391 

Mr. Jackson gave it his second. 

The motion being thus introduced was read and a debate thereon ensued. 

Mr. Lowell said he would have seconded the motion, but that he intended 
to have brought on the Consideration of the subject in another way, that 
he thought the in.structions were not vaHd as they had not at the time of 
passing had the vote of nine states which by the Confederation were 
necessary to give them vaHdity. This occasioned a call for the minutes 
of the proceedings which were read. 

Mr. Bland supported the propriety of a reconsideration. 

Mr. Madison objected to it. He took notice that the motion before the 
house went much farther than the reasoning in support of a reconsidera- 
tion. That the reasoning was confined entirely to the impropriety, in- 
expediency and dangerous consequences of one single clause in the 
instructions ; that the motion was pointed against the ministers as well as 
against the instructions ; that nothing was said to show that the appoint- 
ment was improper and that therefore he could not agree to the motion. 
But waiving this he should object to the motion if confined to the instruc- 
tions; as to the objection started on account of an amendment to the 
original instructions which was carried by seven states, he apprehended 
the articles of confederation did not require the vote of nine states for 
the purpose of making peace; but even admitting it did and that there 
was an error or defect in the instructions by reason of the amendment, 
admitted by seven votes on the nth June 1781, yet the passing them 
afterwards on the 15 of the same month which appears to have been done 
without dissent, and the confirmation of them by the act of the 31st of 
May last removed every defect or error which the admission of the amend- 
ment might have occasioned. That before gentlemen condemned the 
instructions they ought to consider the times and circumstances in which 
they were passed. Here he went into a detail of the critical situation of 
affairs in America in June 1781, the interposition of mediating powers, 
the rejection of the motion for joining other persons in the Commission 
with J. Adams, the unfortunate difference between him and the Co't de 
Vergennes and the information given that the court of F. had not a full 
confidence in Mr. Adams prudence and management. Upon the whole 
he did not think it prudent or proper to reconsider the instructions; that 
they could not be productive of any ill consequences and that the recon- 
sidering and altering them might interrupt the harmony which at present 
subsists between the U. S. and F., might abate the zeal she has hitherto 
shown in our favour and that our affairs were not at present in such a 
situation as to warrant so hazardous a step. 

Sundry other members opposed the reconsideration and at last an ad- 
journment was called for wdiich was agreed to. 

Thursday, July 2^. 

Mr. Lee informed the house that he had looked into a report from the 
superintendant of finances of the 24 of May, by which it appears that 
large sums of money are reserved in France for certain purposes; that 
in his opinion some of these purposes did not require so large a sum as 



392 Continental Congress 

was reserved for them, and that others were not proper ; that the situation 
of our treasury required an examination into this matter and therefore 
he moved " That the report of the superintendant of finances of the 24 
of May last stating the application of the monies of the United States 
in France be referred to a Com'e to be examined and reported on." This 
motion was agreed to and Mr. Lee, Mr. Izard and Mr. Wharton were 
elected. It may not be improper to observe that the superintendant in his 
report of the 24 of May enclosed, i. \ copy of a letter from the Count 
De Vergennes to Doct. Franklin dated 6, Feby. 1782, with an acct. of the 
money lent and obtained for the United States in 1781 and the balance 
remaining unexpended 2. A copy of a letter of 4th March from Doct. 
Franklin informing the superintendant that the court of France had agreed 
to furnish the United States with the sum of six million of livres in the 
year 1782 in four quarterly payments, and 3. An account from the superin- 
tendant of the purposes to which the balance of former loans and the 
six millions granted and to be paid this year are to be applied '' from 
which," says he, " Congress mill perceive that every loan we can command 
during the year 1782 is anticipated." Hence it appeared evident that no 
more bills could be drawn as heretofore for the payment of the interest 
of monies borrowed before the i March 1778, and that for the support 
of the war during the present year Congress must rely on the exertions 
of the states. The states had not yet all complied with the requisition of 
Febry. 1781 for granting an impost of five per cent on imports and prizes 
which was to be appropriated to the payment of interest and discharging 
the debt contracted during the war. The quotas of 8 millions of Dollars 
required for the present year were like to come in very slow. The first 
quarter day had passed without any money being paid. The treasur>' 
was exhausted, large anticipations had been made. And the superintendant 
had informed Congress that he could not with safety proceed farther 
and that some of the great war departments were at a stand for want 
of money. Letters and representations to the states had not had the de- 
sired eflfect. To give a full display of the situation of affairs in writing 
would be dangerous as it would expose it to the knowledge of the enemy. 
Congress therefore on the 27th May thought it proper to send two of their 
members to the states eastward and two to the southward to give them 
a confidential and full view of affairs and to stimulate them to a speedy 
compliance with the requisitions of Congress, particularly those relative 
to the impost and the quotas for 1782 ^ some time after, viz June i a 
Com'tt consisting of Mr. Osgood, Mr. Izard and Mr. Witherspoon re- 
ported a resolution for putting a stop to the drawing of any more bills. 
This was referred to the superintendant who reported a resolution to the 
same effect. And this together with the former report was referred to 
Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Clark, and their report concurred with 
the former that a stop should be put to the drawing of any more bills 
for the payment of interest. The subject was taken up and debated in 
Congress. The holders of Certificates who had heretofore been paid 

3 According to the Journals the action mentioned here as of May 27 was taken 
May 22. See nos. 515, 516, ante. 



July, 1782 393 

their interest in bills of exchange now took the alarm and remonstrated 
ag-ainst this step.* On the 12 July while this matter was under deliberation 
Mr, Lee presented a memorial to Congress stating that on the settlement 
of his accounts in August 1 781, as there was then no money in the treasury 
he had taken a Certificate for the balance payable with interest at a future 
day, and that as all the other ministers whose accounts were settled had 
been paid in bills of exchange praying that he might be put upon the 
same footing with them and the Certificate given him taken up and 
cancelled. This was referred to Mr. Witherspoon, Mr. Lowell and Mr. 
Middleton, and notwithstanding the information g^ven by the Superin- 
tendant that there were no funds on which bills could be drawn, notwith- 
standing a report of a Com'e in consequence of that information was then 
before Congress and under deliberation for putting a stop to the drawing 
any more bills, and notwithstanding the clamours of the holders of certifi- 
cates which would naturally be increased when they found their interest 
stopped under pretence that Congress had no funds in Europe on which 
they could draw bills and at the same time drawing in favour of one of 
their members for a sum equal to one fortieth part of their whole interest, 
notwithstanding all this the Com'e on the 19 July reported " that the 
superintendant should be directed to draw a bill on Doct. Franklin in 
favour of Mr. A. Lee for the sum of £2238.17.9 sterling with interest 
from the 6 of August last, and that the Certificate given him for that 
sum being the balance of his acct. as settled by the board of treasury should 
be cancelled." " The report was objectionable on another account. A 
special resolution had been passed 29 May 1781 for facilitating the 
settlement of Mr. Lee's acct. ; no other voucher than his word of honor 
was required for his expences ordinary or extraordinary amounting to 
155,191 livres 18 sous and 14 den'r ^*\' he had without any authority 
expended for the State of Virginia a part of the monies he received for 
the public use to the amount of sixty six thousand eight hundred and 
fifty three livres, whereby he fell in debt to the Public ; and it was only 
by allowing him to charge that sum on the promise of Virginia to account 

* See nos. 550, 560, ante. The resolution reported by Osgood, Izard, and Wither- 
spoon is recorded in the Journals, June 26. The resolution reported by the superintendent 
of finance, to whom the committee report was referred, is in the Journals, July i. The 
superintendent had previously offered such a resolution June 13, but it is marked " post- 
poned ". The report of the committee (Rutledge, Lee, and Clark) to which the report of 
the superintendent of finance was referred is not recorded in the Journals until Aug. 5 
(p- 447). although the endorsement shows that it had been delivered July 18, debated and 
postponed July 22 (see no. 560, ante), and referred Aug. 5 to the grand committee 
(appointed July 22). 

In the printed text here used the abbreviation " com** " for committee is frequently 
found. This is undoubtedly an erroneous reading of the manuscript. Thomson's most usual 
abbreviation was " com*' ", sometimes " comm'" ", occasionally " com* ", but never 
"Com**". In a few instances this same abbreviation appears where "com"' (commis- 
sioner) must certainly have been written. 

5 See the Journals, June 19, July 12 (p. 386 n.), 19. 

« " The board of treasury was ordered in adjusting Mr. Lee's acct. to compute from 
15 Dec 1776 to 25 March 1780, which is 3 yrs. 3 mo. and 10 days including three months 
and after he was out of services, during that time he charged and was allowed for ex- 
pences ordinary and extraordinary the sum of 155,197.18 Livres 4 Den'r which is at the 
rate of 47382 livres or 9476 2/5 dollars per annum and besides this a salary of 500 pound's 
sterling a year." This note is in the original. 

29 



394 Continental Congress 

for it with the United States, that he became a public creditor; and by 
accepting a Certificate for the balance payable at a future day with interest 
he had put himself on a footing with other public creditors and therefore 
had no right to any peculiar favour or indulgence.'' 

Mr. Lowell, one of the Com'ee, informed the house that he had objected 
to the report on account of the want of funds in Europe but was over 
ruled by the other members. The report of the Superintendant of the 
4 [24] of May was called for and read and after debate the report of 
the Comm'tt was referred to the Superintendant of finance to take order.* 

By this step Congress avoided the apparent inconsistency of conduct 
and partiality in favour of their own members and left it to the superin- 
tend't to falsify his own report and incur the odium of the public creditors 
by drawing in favour of Mr. Lee, or the resentment of Mr. Lee by a 
refusal. 

566. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, July 29th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We had the honor to receive your Excellency's letter of the 12th instant 
with its inclosure. 

No further provision has yet been made by Congress for demolishing 
the Continental bills at our Treasury, it has often been moved without 
success; we shall move it at a proper time, if thought advisable. 

Congress have just passd an ordinance regulating the Commissaries 
of Prisoners which we hope will expedite the exchange of naval as well 
as other prisoners.'^ A plan is also in agitation for a general cartell, which, 
if settled according to Sir Guy Carleton's proposal to exchange seamen 
for soldiers, and that soldiers so exchanged shall not serve against 
America within one year, will bring on a general exchange. Congress 
have not given their reply to the above proposal, but will probably agree, 
with this alteration, that those soldiers shall not serve against the United 
States or their present or future allies within that time, and further it 
will be insisted on that the ballance due to the United States for support 
of the capitulants of Saratoga and Yorktown be adjusted and paid.' .... 

An ordinance for regulating the Post Office of the United States is in 
agitation and will pass in a few days, by which some present inconveniences 
will be removed, and the revenue arising from that office increased. The 
State of Maryland have passd an Act granting to the United States a 
duty of five per ct. on importations, etc., so that the only States that 
still neglect are Rhode Island and Georgia, and by their means the whole 
measure is retarded to the very great injury of the United States, who 

^ Concerning Arthur Lee's accounts see the Journals, Dec. ii, 15, 28, 1780, Jan. 2, 
3. 8 (pp. 32, 35), 16, May 29, Aug. 6, 1781. 

8 See the Journals, Nov. 18. 
[566] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, III. 367 (signed by Dyer, Root, and 
Benjamin Huntington). 

2 The Journals, July 24. 

•'' See no. 556, note 2, ante, and nos. 585, 589, post. 



July, 1782 395 

have no other means to pay the interest of monies received on loan ; that 
of bills on France being wholly stoped. 

The Continental Treasury is very low, not more than twenty thousand 
dollars being yet paid in all the States for the expenditures of the current 
year, and unless the States exert themselves in collections the most distress- 
ing and ruinous consequences must ensue. 

The Financer's notes and bank bills are in full credit and paid on sight, 
and are rather preferred to money by the nierch'ts here, and yet a shameful 
discount is placed on them, and large speculations made by traders in 

distant States, without regard to justice or public danger The 

agents of Pensylvania and Connecticut are endeavoring to agree on the 
judges to settle the dispiite between those states.* 

567. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.^ 

Philada. July 29, 1782. 

Dear Sir, 

I dare say you attribute to neglect my long silence on the Subject of 
my last letter.-' The truth is, I have not been able to say any thing of 
importance on the Subject. Upon Genl. Lincoln's return from head 
quarters, he made a report for appointing three Brigadiers, one for 
Massachusetts Line, one for Connecticut and one for Jersey, with this 
report he laid before Congress a Letter from the Commander in Chief 
to the secretary at War, in which he states the situation of the three lines, 
and Urges the Necessity of Appointing Brigadrs. for the two former, 
but Signifies that the reasons in favour of a Brigadr. for Jersey are not 
equally strong with the former owing to their having but two Regiments ; 
in this Letter you are named as having a right to promotion in case Con- 
gress think the measure necessary, the General also mentions you as a 
good Officer.^ This report of the Secretary at War was referred to a 
Committee who have not yet reported. The appointing Genl. Officers is 
by no means a popular Subject with Congress who think they have at 
present a Sufficient Number if properly employed.* 

* " Hie labor, hoc opus est! " (note in the original). In the Wyoming Historical 
and Geological Society's Proceedings and Collections, vol. XX. (1929), pp. 49-243, is a 
reprint of Barnabas Bidwell's The Susquehannah Title Stated and Examined (1796), 
edited, with an introduction, by Julian P. Boyd. 

1567]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 268 (original). 

2 Probably June 7. A letter from Clark to Dayton of that date was listed in C. F. 
Libbie and Company's Catalogue, May 9-10, 191 1, 

8 Following the word " Officer " is an illegible word or an erasure. Washington's 
words are, " Colo. Dayton is an old Officer, and may justly claim the Rank ". 

* The report of the secretary at war here referred to is dated June 24 and is found 
in the Journals under June 25. The letter of Washington which accompanied it is dated 
June 17 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; another letter of the same date is in 
Writings, ed. Ford, X. 35, ed. Sparks, VHL 308). The secretary at war was at Wash- 
ington's headquarters (Newburgh) from June 12 to 18 (see the Journals, June 5). Con- 
cerning the promotion of Dayton see the Journals, May 8, June 3 (p. 315 n.), 5, Nov. 25 
(p. 753 n-), Dec. 4, 12, 1782, and Jan. 7, 1783. On the date last mentioned Dayton was 
made a brigadier-general. See also nos. 711, 719, post. For earlier efforts in behalf of his 
promotion see Qark to Dayton Mar. 7, 1777, and Dec. 19, 1780, in vols. IL and IV. 
respectively. 



'j90 Continental Congress 

Generals Parsons and Glover lately desired leave to retire for recovery 
of their healths untill they might be able to perform their duty, with a 
Suspension of pay during their absence. Upon taking their request into 
Consideration, Congress dismissed them altogether upon half pay; this 
indeed was an alternative proposed by them.*^ these dismissions, especially 
Glovers will probably hasten the report of the Committee, as there are 
now two vacancys in the Massachusetts Line ; but they know not what to 
say if Jersey is left out of the question and I can perceive they wish to 
have us forgot. 

Congress is endeavouring to wipe of[f] every Unnecessary expence 
both in the Army and Civil Department, a work attended with great 
difficulty. The want of money embar[rasses] every department. 

When ever I can say any thing agreable on the Subject I shall not fail 
Writing. 

568. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[July 29, 30, 1782.] 
1/82, July 2p. 

The order of the day being called for to fix the salary of the Com'r " 
to be appointed, pursuant to a resolution of the 28 May last, to liquidate 
and finally settle the accounts of all the servants of the United States who 
have been entrusted with the expenditure of public money in Europe, a 
motion was made by Mr. Telfair for 4000 dollars per annum. 

Mr. Smith objected to the fixing any salary, that it was not a standing 
office, that when the service was performed a quantum meruit should be 
allowed, that it would make a material diflference whether a person was 
sent from hence or one residing in Europe was appointed. Some objec- 
tions was made by several members against settling the accounts in Europe 
whereupon a motion was made by Mr. Montgomery seconded by Mr. Lee 
to reconsider the resolution of 28 May. Question taken, passed in the 
affirmative. 

Mr. Ramsay moved to augment the number and instead of one to 
appoint 3 Com'rs. Mr. Bland was against the appointment altogether, 
thought the acct. should be sent over and settled by the proper officers 
in the treasury, spoke of improper contracts being made and old arms 
sent over. 

Mr. Dyer was of the same opinion. 

Mr. Madison was for sending a person or persons to liquidate but not 
with power finally to settle the acct. 

Mr. Scott was of the same opinion — expatiated on the advantages of 
sending a person to examine vouchers on the spot, collect facts and evi- 
dences and give information ; that instructions might be given in the way 
of a commission from chancery by which little would be left to discretion. 

= See the Journals, July 11 (p. 38311.), 15, 18, 19, 22; cf. no. 569, post. 
[568]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 69. 

2 The printed text has " Com'tt ", but this is doubtless an error, as " commissioner " 
is uniformly used in the Journals. 



July, 1782 397 

Mr. Bland spoke again; concurred in sentiments with Mr. Scott and 
moved to commit the resolution. 

Mr. Witherspoon spoke to the same effect and seconded the motion 
for committing. 

Mr. Telfair made a rambUng speech. 

Mr. Lee spoke much of the necessity of investigating thoroughly the 
accts. of merchants and people employed in France, mentioned the ac- 
counts offered to the Com'n in France by M. Monthieu, an acct. in one 
line of so many suits of Cloaths, or so many shoes, blankets etc., but no 
invoices. And the most they could get from him was so many bales, casks 
etc. but no acct. of the contents of each, that it was necessary to examine 
persons at the ports of delivery relative to the quantity reed. 

The Resolution was com'd to Mr. Scott to report the powers with which 
the Com'r should be invested, a draught of instructions to be given and 
to confer with the Superintend't of finance on the subject.' 

1782, July 50. 

A letter from the Secretary of War was read, enclosing a list of promo- 
tions and appointments in the Connecticut line made by the Council 
of Safety of that State. 

Mr. Cornell observed that the promotions were made not only on ac- 
count of death, desertion, and resignation, but also on account of officers 
retiring. That he understood it was become a custom among the officers 
of that line, when tired of the service, to withdraw from the army with 
the consent of their superior officers, and under the title of retiring officers 
to claim half pay for life and that thereupon others were promoted in 
their stead. That if this practice was allowed and the claim admitted, 
he saw nothing to prevent the State from putting every man in it on the 
half pay establishment and therefore objected to the granting Commissions. 

Mr. Dyer seemed to admit the custom, and justified it by observing 
that the same was practised in other States ; other States did it in a hidden 
way, "this return is honest, fair, plain, no disguise;" several spoke on 
the occasion and reprobated the practice. 

A motion was made to commit. 

Mr. B. Huntington observed that some of the promotions and appoint- 
ments were made on right principles, though others were on wrong, 
he therefore was for commitment, which was agreed to. 

The Secretary of War having some days ago reported on a memorial 
of Webster and Judd, in behalf of the deranged officers of Connecticut 
line, stating that the half pay to which they were entitled by the acts of 
Congress of the 3 and 21 Oct. 1780, was not pvaid, and praying Congress 
" that such effectual and seasonable provision may be made as will com- 
port with the aforesaid resolutions, relieve the distressed and answer the 
just expectation of the said officers," and the report having been referred 
to Mr. Cornell, Mr. Montgomery, and Mr. McKean, the Com'tt reported 
the Congress should resolve That it was ine.vpedient to comply with the 

8 See the Jourtials, May 28, 29, July 25, 29 (and note), Nov. 18 (and note), 20, 
Dec. 10. 



398 Continental Congress 

request of the memorialists. This was objected to, as improper. That it 
was not doing justice to Congress, nor would it satisfy the memoriaHsts 
to ground the denial upon inexpediency. That it was out of the power 
of Congress to comply with the request, as the States had not furnished 
the necessary supplies of money; and therefore 

Mr. Duane moved to insert impracticable in lieu of inexpedient. 

Mr. Cornell and Mr. Montgomery of the Com'tt present, informed 
the house that the memorialists were sensible of the deranged state of the 
public finances and the inability of Congress to pay at present, and there- 
fore only requested to have their accounts settled and Certificates given 
for the sums due, payable, with interest, at a future day ; that the report 
was calculated to meet this request, which the Com'tt thought it to be 
inexpedient to comply with till funds were granted for the purpose, this 
explanation not satisfying the house and the question for Mr. Uuane's 
amendment being lost, the report was postponed, and a motion was made 
by Mr. Bland, seconded by Mr. Lee, *' That the memorialists be informed 
it is not now in the power of Congress to make a general arrangement 
for liquidating and pay the half pay due to the reduced officers, and that 
it would be inexpedient to make a partial arrangement for that purpose." 

This brought on a new debate, in the course of which Mr. Clark ex- 
pressed a doubt whether the States or Congress were bound by the Reso- 
lution granting half pay to the officers, as it had passed by the votes of 
only eight States, for though it passed before the articles of Confedera- 
tion was finally ratified by all the States, yet being for the appropriation 
of money, and that to be made at a future day, and the votes of nine 
States being now necessary for that purpose, he doubted whether Congress 
or the States would agree to it, and therefore was against any new promises 
tending to confirm the former act; Mr. Dyer and Mr. Cornell were also 
against confirming the former acts by new engagements and mentioned 
that the Eastern States were opposed to the measure, and would not make 
grants to enable Congress to comply with the resolution. 

Mr. Dyer said that the State of Connecticut would agree to make some 
compensation to officers for past services and sufferings, nor would it 
object to the paying officers who retired under the act of 3 and 21 Oct.. 
1780, a sum equal to their half pay during the war, but the State expected 
that all these pensions should cease as soon as the war was at an end. 

Mr. Madison combated the objection of Mr. Clark; the doctrine it 
intended to establish was dangerous and if admitted would sap the founda- 
tion of a credit, and might be attended with the most ruinous consequences ; 
that the States were as much bound by acts of Congress, which passed 
by a majority of votes, before the ratification of the Confederation as 
they would be now by the number of votes required by the Confederation : 
that on this rested the treaties and alliances already made and the instruc- 
tions given to our ministers abroad to enter into other treaties and 
alliances; on this rested the money borrowed and the debts contracted, 
at home and abroad, for the payment of which the public faith was 
solemnly plighted and for which the States must provide funds, that the 
fixing of the pay of the army rests solely with Congress and that the 



July, 1782 399 

States are bound to provide for what is stipulated and granted to the 
officers and men, whether to be paid then, at certain periods and in certain 
sums during service only, or while in service and for years or lives after 
the termination of the war; Mr Duane supported the argument of Mr. 
Madison. Mr. Root was for postponing the farther consideration of the 
subject, Mr. Cornell was of the same opinion and thought the officers 
who were at home had the less reason to complain, as those in the field 
were not paid. Several other members spoke, at last an adjournment was 
called for and the house broke up without coming to a decision.* 

569. David Howell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, 30th July, 1782. 
Sir: 

.... Eleven States have transmitted copies of their acts vesting Con- 
gress with a power to levy and collect a duty of 5 pr Cent, on Imports 
and Prize goods; all of which acts are passed on the express condition 
that the measure shall be universally adopted throughout the Ud. Ss. and 
some of them have other conditions annexed ; Such as the following. That 
after a term of years it shall be in the power of the State to substitute 
some other revenue equally productive and which shall be approved of 
by Congress; That no part of the revenue shall ever be appropriated to 
the discharge of half -pay pensions, etc. That the State retain a right 
of appointing or suspending the Train of revenue officers, within its 
jurisdiction, etc., etc. Whereon I shall only observe that a reluctance 
against the measure appears from the mode of compliance therewith 
in some instances. 

A Committee was lately appointed in Congress to enquire into the 
reasons why the other States had not complied with this recommendation 
before whom, on notice and request, the Delegates for the States of 
Georgia and R. I. and Pr. Pl.^ appeared to give Information. Having 
discovered on my arrival in this City that all the members of Congress, 
as well as the Inhabitants, were universally in favour of the Impost, and 
concluding that my single voice would be unavailing against the general 
Current, I cautiously avoided entering unnecessarily into the discussion 
of the Subject, but being called on this occasion to assign the reasons 
which induced a delay on the part of my Constituents, a fair opportunity 
opened and I embraced it with pleasure, to lay before the Committee the 
following representations — 

That the maritime Situation of our State peculiarly exposeth us to the 
attacks of an enemy in a time of War. By a coup de main an enemy ma\' 
lay waste our Seaport towns all around the Naragansett-Bay, destroy 
our Navigation and plunder the whole treasure of our little State; in 

* See the Journals, July 19 (p. 404), 25, 30. 
[569]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782-1783; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Conq.. 
p. 381. 

2 " Pr. PI." (sometimes "P. P.") is Howell's frequent abbreviation for Provi- 
dence Plantations. 



400 Continental Congress 

which said Catastrophe the value of the State would be reduced to that 
of a County in the neighbouring States ; and yet we should have no claim 
in virtue of any compact, or Stipulation, on the federal Union for a 
reimbursement. That in fact this had partly taken place, our State had 
been invaded and plundered, our Towns burnt and partly torn down, 
and our Navigation reduced to a very low ebb, so that out of the ancient 
and once wealthy Town of New-Port, which, in the year 1774 sent to 
Sea nearly 150 sail, three only were at Sea in March 1782 : Wherefore, 
if any substantial revenue could be derived from a duty on trade, this 
benefit ought, in all right and justice, to belong solely and exclusively 
to the State in Compensation for losses already sustained, and as a Se- 
curity against still more fatal evils to be apprehended in all future Wars — 
That this was the voice of nature, the voice of reason and the voice of 
Confederation, the Constitution of the Ud. Ss. which had, in this par- 
ticular, secured to us our Birth-right, Vis. the whole, entire emoluments 
of our own Trade. 

It was moreover represented — That, in fact, the measure in its present 
form tended to raise a revenue within our State and from the earnings 
of its Inhabitants to be carried to the general credit of the Ud. Ss. : Inas- 
much as, not only in the first instance, would the Merchant be compelled 
to pay the duty at all events on Importation, which it might, or might not 
be in his power to superadd to the price of his merchandise : but admitting 
the duty to be superadded, and the revenue to be wholly drawn out of the 
consumer : the first consequence would be an obvious inequality in respect 
to individuals, and the second a no less obvious inequality in respect to 
the Several States — and that our State would feel this grievance more 
sensibly than any other State in the Union, as consisting more of Mer- 
chants, manufacturers and tradesmen who are chiefly subsisted on im- 
ported goods and consuming a greater proportion of dutied articles would 
pay an unequal part of a revenue to be appropriated to the common benefit 
of the Union. Another consequence would be the rise of the prices of 
such articles of country produce as may be substituted in lieu of imported 
articles, which would no doubt continue to bear nearly their usual propor- 
tion to each other, and being drawn from our neighbouring State, although 
by an Inland communication, they would thus in fact come charged with 
five pr. Cent, duty, which would be pernicious to our interests, and increas- 
ingly so in all future time. And, moreover, that inland duties, imposed 
at the pleasure of our neighbours, on specific articles in addition to their 
prices thus unnaturally raised, (which by the way, the Confederation 
authorized them to impose) and temporary Embargoes, the effects of 
which we had sorely felt during the State bill, might lay us wholly at 
their mercy and precipitate our ruin ; while, on the contrary, should trade 
remain unfettered with duties, and free to all the world, while our Ports 
continued open, supplies might be drawn from any part of the World, 
whereby we might be enabled to treat with our neighbours, however ex- 
tensive their territory, or however overbearing their temporary insolence, 
upon terms of equality. 



July, 1782 401 

It was further represented — that it derogated from the Sovereignty 
and Independance of the State for the Ud. Ss. to draw a Revenue for 
their benefit out of our State and to collect it by their officers. For that 
all monies raised in a Sovereign State ought to pass to the credit of that 
Sovereignty exclusively ; and all civil officers acting in a Sovereign State 
ought to be authorized by and accountable to that Sovereignty — The con- 
trary being a Solecism in politicks, and in this case injurious to the State. 

That such was the State of mankind that the experience of ages evinced 
the extreme difficulty of collecting duties on trade — That this difficulty 
would be less should the duty proposed be laid on by the State for its own 
benefit and greater in the measure proposed. In the former case it would 
be the interest of every citizen to aid in the collecting with a view of 
lightening his own Tax thereby: in the latter, he would not only promote 
his own particular interest by avoiding the duty in his own case, but the 
interest of his State in abetting others in the practice. Therefore it was 
not probable that the measure proi>osed was practicable, at least so as to 
afford any considerable net produce, after deducting the vast expences 
of the numerous officers necessary in the collecting and after management 
thereof. 

That the term of its duration was exceptionable and precluded the State 
from the possibility of revoking their grant in any future Period, should 
experience prove it ever so unproffitable and ruinous. 

That Congress were not to be accountable for the amount or expenditure 
of this revenue but on the contrary it was to be absolutely at their disposal, 
during a term of time which would be wholly in their power. That per- 
haps it might really be the Interest of the Ud. Ss. never to discharge all 
the debts contracted, and to be contracted during this War, and if so 
the duty, by the terms of the grant, was to remain to perpetuity. 

That however safely this extraordinary', uncontrolable and unaccount- 
able power might be granted to the present Congress, a change of times 
and of men might bring forth abuses at present unthought of, and cause 
us to rue the fatal day when we so rashly devested ourselves and that 
irrevocably, of a power naturally inherent in the several States and guaran- 
teed and secured to us in Confederation. It was further represented — 
That the measure proposed in addition to all the evils aforesd. had an 
unpromising aspect upon the morals of the community at large, by multi- 
plying oaths, by increasing temptations to perjury both in officers of the 
customs and in citizens, and by nourishing in idleness and Luxury a 
numerous train of Collectors, Comptrollers Searchers, tide-waiters. Clerks, 
etc. etc., whereby the country would loose the benefit of their industry 
and incur the additional charge of their support, and that not to create 
a revenue but only in order to throw taxation out of its present channel 
and to bring the weight thereof upon particular setts or descriptions of 
men in the community to their great and lasting injury. 

That it did not appear as yet in what manner Congress would enforce 
the Law proposed, whether prosecutions were to be commenced, or penal- 
ties were to be recoverable in the common courts of justice, or whether 
the Maritime Courts were to be empowered to have cognizance thereof 



402 Continental Congress 

and that the general plan for the execution of the Law might affect the 
propriety of making the grant in question. 

That I had lately received pointed instructions to make urgent applica- 
tion to Congress in behalf of my Constituents for a participation in the 
vacant, or back lands, to which they claimed, for reasons the most sub- 
stantial, a good right in common with their Sister States. That Congress 
had hitherto delayed to come to an ultimate decision hereon, And as some 
States pertinaciously persisted in claiming exclusive rights to sd. lands: 
it was not to be exjjected that our State would part with all the benefits 
of its maritime Situation vmtill some assurance could be obtained of a 
Participation in common with other States in the back lands, which ought 
to be considered as a continental acquisition and to be appropriated ac- 
cordingly — but this was thrown out as a reason of the delay in question 
only conjectu rally, not being so assigned in the instructions referred to. 

After proposing the following alterations, viz. : 

1st. That each State retain the p)Ower of chusing the officers of the 
revenue to be collected within its own jurisdiction. 

2. That the revenue arising from this duty be carried to the credit of 
each State, wherein it shall be collected respectively, and deducted from 
their annual Quota of continental requisitions, I withdrew, not a little 
mortified at having been opposed rather than seconded by my Colleague. 

It ought also to be noted that on this occasion, the extraordinary exer- 
tions of our State during the whole contest, and on the opening of the 
present campaign in special were mentioned and not contested and added 
much weight to the aforegoing representation in behalf of the State; And 
that the Committee have not yet made their report, which no doubt will 
produce a renewed application to the State : For, the same reasons, which 
make it against our interests to make this grant, make it the interest of 
the whole Union to solicit it, which you may expect will be done with the 
most unremitting importunity. 

After the part I have taken in this matter, which has been done with 
views the most disinterested, so far as I am personally concerned, my 
Constituents will not expect any direct advise on the Subject ; and knowing 
they possess integrity and abilities sufficient for the places they respectively 
fill, in all events, I shall always endeavour to reconcile myself to their 
determinations and govern myself by their instructions, however contrary 
to my private opinion. 

A grand committee for the support of public credit has lately been 
appointed in Congress; and I shall endeavour as one of that committee 
to bring on a decision respecting the hack-lands.^ They would, undoubtedly, 
be a means in our hands of reviving pmblic credit ; they are of vast extent 
and value, beyond what is generally known or conjectured. A gentleman 
of no mean Talents in Finance thinks well of this plan, and that in a 
course of time they would enable us to discharge a great part of our 

^ The grand committee was appointed July 22. See the paragraph below, dated 
July 31, iht Journals. July 31, Aug. 5 (pp. 446 n., 448 n.), and nos. 573, 579, 580, 590, 593, 
597, 606, post; see also no. 514, note 4, ante. 



July, 1782 403 

national debt. So much in regard to the instruction on that head, referred 
to in your Excellency's Letter of 17th June last. 

The Commissioners appointed by the resolve of the 20th of February 
last, are to liquidate and put on the list of the funded debt, which is to 
draw Interest, all the Certificates issued on account of the Continent in 
the Several States. And it is proposed that in the Settlement to be made 
by the Commissioners, the States have credit for their taxes of old money 
actually collected and paid in, and be charged with their deficiencies, but 
this arrangement is not completed, nor final as it would affect individuals 
in possession of said bills, as I can yet discover 

By a resolve of the 23 October, 1780, the officers who shall continue 
in the Service to the end of the war, shall be entitled to half pay during 
life as well as those who are reduced by the resolve of the same day, and 
others deranged by other resolves and permitted to retire, whereby the 
Ud. Ss. are loaded with half pay officers, even during the war, and that 
which was intended as an antidote against depreciation is continued even 
now when the army is paid in hard money; and having been originally 
intended as a motive to keep officers in the army, is now become a temp- 
tation for them to leave it. And what is still more extraordinary by an- 
other resolve, half pay is to be made in all cases in proportion to full pay. 
so that a M. G. and B. G. draw their half pays instead of the half pay 
of a Colonel — against the universal custom in all European nations, where 
there are half pay establishments. A Major Greneral and a Brigadier 
General lately applied to Congress for leave to retire on the half pay 
establishment, and obtained it,* and officers of inferior grades in the 
Line are daily retiring on half pay and others are advanced to take their 
places whereby we have duplicates and triplicates of officers in some 
instances, and an enormous expense is incurred. 

This in my opinion calls loudly on the legislatures of the States either 
to provide Funds (which will be insufficient,) in addition to the five per 
cent, or to instruct their delegates to discontinue the practice. I the rather 
wish for instructions on this head as I am so unhappy as to differ from 
my worthy Colleage on these points, tho I do it with much diffidence 
and reluctance. 

A report lies before Congress from the office of Finance recommending 
the five pr cent., a I^nd tax of one Dollar pr hundred acres, and a 
Capitation tax. From this report Congress have taken and recommended 
only the five pr cent. Quere. Would either of the other two be eligible? ^ 

July ^ist. 

This day the Grand Committee referred to above for reviving credit 
reported the expediency of taking up the Consideration of the cession 
made by New-York Connecticut and Virginia, so as ultimately to bring 
on a decision of Congress upon the subject of the vacant Lands, a motion 
was made and seconded by me that next Wednesday be assigned for con- 

* Major-General Parsons and Brigadier-General Glover. See no. 567, ante. 
'•" See the Journals, Aug. 5, and nos. 572, 606, post. 



404 Continental Congress 

sidering [the] report; the yeas and nays were called and the question 
was lost by our State being divided. And so nothing is likely to be done 
about that part of your Excellency's Instructions 

P. S. — Please to excuse inaccuracies. 

This letter is too long to transcribe : and Mr. Morris has this moment 
sent me a note, requesting the reasons, in writing, why our State has not 
complied with the recommendation for five per cent., as he is about to 
write to the State on that subject.® 

570. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

(-,. Philadelphia July 30th, 1782. 

We deliverd the Letter to the Chevalier de la Luzerne, enclosd in that 
your Excellency honord us with on the 19, together with the apology you 
desird for your Congratulations, on the auspicious event of the birth of 
a Dauphin, having arrivd so late. The Minister expressd his satisfaction 
in recieving it. 

The Secretary for foreign Affairs will pay proper attention in future 
to your Excellency's Address." Due enquiry will be made by the Post- 
master-general, into the miscarriage of our Letter of the 9th ult. of which 
we now send a Copy. 

We shall make all possible enquiry concerning Mr. J. Todd and his 
proceedings here.^ 

That part of your Excellency's Letter of the i ith relating to the expence 
of garrisoning York and Glocester, was laid before Congress, and referrd 
to a Committee, which has not yet reported upon it * We shoud be happy 
to hear, from time to time, of the success of the recruiting plan. 

It is so confidently reported here, that a fleet of 13 Sail of french Ships 
of war, with 4000 land Forces and a numerous Convoy, are arrivd in 
the Chesapeake; that we cannot help congratulating your Excellency on 
an event, which promises so much to our State and to the Union. 

571. James Madisox to Edmund Randolph.^ 
jj^^^ ^.^ Philadelphia, July 30, 1782. 

I was not mistaken in my [intimation that an attack would be made 
on] ^ the [last commission] and [instructions] relative to [peace. On 

•■' Howell's statement is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 391. A letter from Morris 
to the governor, dated Aug. 2, is ibid., p. 387 ; also in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 639. 
That Howell's mind had for some time been definitely fixed on the question of the impost 
is evident from a letter which he wrote to Governor Hancock nearly a month before he 
took his seat in Congress. The letter, which is dated at Boston, May 13, is in Haverford 
College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

[570] ^Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Bland, Madison, and Lee). 

2 See the governor's letter of July 19 {Official Letters, 111. 273), also his letter 
to the Chevalier de la Luzerne, July 15 {ibid., p. 274). 

3 Col. John Todd of Kentucky. He was killed at the battle of Blue Licks Aug. 19, 
just one month from the day on which Harrison made his inquiry. 

* See the Journals, July 24 (p. 415 n.), Aug. 27, and no. 561, ante, nos. 581, 589, post. 
1571]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081; Papers, I. 155. 
2 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. 



July, 1782 405 

Wednesday] last the [motion was made by Mr. Lee] and [seconded] 
by [Bland] at [first but] afterwards by a member from Mas:] the [rule 
for reconsid'g] so requiring. Not a word [was said] against [the] under- 
scored in the third line.* The arguments on the other point were drawn 
from a source which need not be pointed out to you. An [adjournment 
arrested the debate.] An intended [renewal was announced but has not 
yet taken place.] * 

I have found means hitherto of parrying the [attack on] the [notes 
of Morris.] My [colleagues have repeatedly] pressed the necessity of an 
[act of congress] for [ratifying the convention] on that subject be[tween] 
him and the [assembly] os[tensibly for the security of] the latter but 
[really] to bring the [subject before congress.] At present [Bland seems] 
to decline the object, as having an [ill tendency.] ' . , . . 

[P. S.] My situation obliges me to remind you of my late request 
touching pecuniary matters. If the interposition of your endeavors shall 
be necessary, to hasten a supply, it will I assure you be a very acceptable 
instance of your friendship. 

572. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[July 3 1 -August 2, 1782.] 
1782, July 31. 

A motion was made by Mr. Root, seconded by Mr. Condict. 

Whereas, Congress, by their resolution of 21 Oct. 1780, did in con- 
sideration of the merit and sufferings of the officers of the army grant 
to those who should continue in service to the end of the war or be de- 
ranged, in pursuance of the acts of 3 and 21 Oct., 1780, half pay for life; 

And Whereas, Application is made by some of those officers for an 
adjustment of their half pay and Congress having no funds provided 
for discharging the same, resolved, that it be recommended to the several 
states to carry into effect the resolution of Congress of 21 Oct. 1780, 
granting half pay for life in regard to the officers in the lines of their 
respective states, and every state which shall settle with the officers be- 
longing to their respective lines in regard to their half pay aforesaid and 
cause the United States to be exonerated therefrom shall be discharged 
from contributing any thing towards the half pay of officers in the line 
of any other state. 

Mr. Dyer opened the debate by observing that the resolution to grant 
half pay for life to the officers had occasioned more uneasiness in some 

3 That is, the commission. See no. 546, note 4, ante. 

* Apropos of Bland's course in Congress at this time a letter to him from Edmund 
Randolph, July 19 (Bland Papers, II. 85), is of especial interest. Randolph is replying to a 
letter from Bland July 2 and discusses the question whether a member should vote in 
accordance with his own views or conform to those of his constituents. 

^ Concerning the notes of Morris, see no. 562, ante. lu the text of this letter as 
printed in Gilpin two paragraphs of Madison's letter of July 16, "All the movements .... 
Asgill ", are repeated. 

[572]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 73. 



406 Continental Congress 

of the States than any measure ever adopted by Congress. Some of the 
States it is true were for the measure. Pennsylvania had a similar pro- 
vision for their officers before Congress passed the resolution. The States 
who were against granting half pay for life were not against making some 
compensation. The resolution proposed would satisfy the officers and the 
State and therefore he hoped it would be agreed to. 

Mr. Bland moved to amend the Resolution by striking out " shall be 
discharged," etc., to the end, in lieu thereof inserting " shall be credited 
in their annual quota to the amount of the half pay of the officers settled 
with." Mr. Clymer seconds the amendment. 

Mr. Dyer against the amendment. It would not satisfy the States which 
objected to the half pay. They wanted to be discharged. They would 
settle with their own officers and satisfy them and then wanted to have 
done with it. 

Mr. Cornell was against both the motion and amendment ; spoke against 
both. 

Mr. Witherspoon desires to know the difference between the original 
motion and the amendment, thinks the argument should be confined to 
shew that the motion is better without the amendment, or that the 
amendm't excels the motion as it stood. 

Mr. Bland explains that he meant by the amendment that the States 
should be jointly bound to the officers : but he had no objection that every 
State which settled with its officers should have credit for the amount 
of their half pay. 

Mr. Madison. All charges of war are by the Confederation to be paid 
out of one treasury. The motion violates this article of the Confederation ; 
the amdmt is more conformable to it ; but still does not meet his appro- 
bation. 

Mr. Clark is against the amendment and in favour of the motion, sup- 
ports the opinion he advanced yesterday that the States are not bound, 
distinguishes between Congress and the States, thinks Congress are bound 
to do every thing they can to carry their resolution into effect. The recom- 
mendation contained in the motion is all they can do. Is not against 
doing justice to the officers and if the resolution passes has no doubt but 
the States will do them justice. 

Mr. Telfair. Some of the States are not in a situation to do anything 
and their officers will be unprovided for ; for '" his part he will be against 
the whole." 

Mr. Witherspoon is against the amendment, it does not make the propo- 
sition better, will not give greater security to the officers and will not 
satisfy the States which are averse to half pay for life. If the original 
motion operates to the disadvantage of any States it will be those who are 
in favour of it. But he reserves himself to speak to the motion when the 
question is taken on the amendt. 

Mr. Montgomery objects to the motion but if he thought it would pass 
he would be for the amend't. The motion with or without the amend't 
would not satisfy the officers. It had been hinted by the Com'tt to the 
Memorialists yesterday and they objected to it with great warmth, said 



July, 1782 407 

they were officers of the U. S. and not of any particular State, that they 
looked to Congress for their half pay and would think themselves deceived 
if referred to States which were opposed to it. That there were many 
officers of independent and separate corps which did not belong to the 
line of any State, who would not be provided for. 

Mr. Root. The original motion was confined to the line of the States, 
it left the general officers and those of independent and separate corps 
to be paid by congress and the States which settled with their own lines 
would be obliged to contribute their proportion to that expense, but he 
objected to the amendment because they would leave the matter as it now 
stood and expose them to provide for the lines of other States, which 
was what they wished to be discharged from. That they would satisfy 
the officers of their own line by making them a compensation at once. 
That the genius of their people would not brook the paying of annual 
pensions, that they could not bear to see men strutting about their streets 
in the port of masters who had a right to demand of the people a part of 
their annual labour and toil to support them in idleness. That they chose 
rather to pay their officers at once after the war and then see them descend 
into the class of citizens. He had seen one of the Memorialists this 
morning; he will be satisfied. 

Mr. Bland supports his amendment, it is the only way to do equal 
justice to the officers and the States. Thinks it not worth while to answer 
the sophistical arguments against the power of Congress to make the 
grant and bind the States. 

Mr. Ramsay. Against the whole measure, the States to the southward, 
particularly South Carolina and Georgia, from the circumstances of the 
war had more than their proix)rtion of officers when the reform of the 
army took place in 1780, that it would be unjust that those States which 
had suffered the most by the war should be subjected to the payment of 
more than their proportion when it was over. That the war was for the 
common defence and the expenses should be borne by all according to 
their several abilities. 

The question on the amendment was called for and the yeas and nays 
required by Mr. Clark. This brought up — 

Mr. Dtiane. This is a subject of too much importance to be decided in 
this hasty way, it requires deliberation. He is not prepared to give a vote. 
He wants time to deliberate and weigh the consequences. Will it satisfy 
the officers to deprive them of the guaranty of the U. S. and transfer 
them to individual States. Will the individual States be willing to under- 
take this. He does not know. \Vill any member undertake for them ; 
they ought to be consulted. The war is not over. It may yet make a great 
change in the circumstances of particular States. Would it be just that 
officers who may have bled and suffered most should from the inability 
of their State occasioned by the calamity of war be in a worse situation 
than others with regard to their half pay. These are matters that require 
deliberation. He is not prepared to give an opinion. 

Mr. Clark maintains his opinion against the power of Congress, thinks 
that from the time articles of Confederation passed the rules by them 



408 Continental Congress 

established bound Congress though they were not binding upon the States 
until finally ratified. He has no objection against allowing time for 
deliberation. 

Mr. Montgomery and Mr. Smith move to postpone the farther con- 
sideration of the subject ; Mr. Root attempts to alarm the fears of Con- 
gress by pointing out the dangers of postponing. Postponing the subject 
will be interpreted into a refusal ; the army in the field are watching the 
conduct of Congress and will form a judgment by what is done for retir- 
ing officers, of what will be done for them when their arms are out of 
their hands. If they see justice done to those who have retired they 
confide in the promises and faith of Congress. But if they find them 
neglected or trifled with they will either quit the service immediately, or 
refuse to lay down their arms when the war is over until they have some 
better security. He thinks the measure was wrong at first. It was no part 
of the original contract with the officers. It was an extraordinary and 
gratuitous emolument. But being promised they consider it as their right 
and that no time should be lost in giving them confident assurances that 
they will not be deprived of it. 

Mr. Duane laments that the measures of Congress however just and 
necessary at the time are unreservedly blamed by members who were not 
present when they were adopted or who do not recollect the circumstances 
which compelled the adopting them ; is confident if any of those who now 
so freely condenm the resolution for granting half pay had been present 
at the time they would have given their assent. He could appeal to one 
as well satisfied and from his situation better able to judge than any other 
in the United States, he meant the Com. in chief, that without it the 
army could not have been kept together. He thought the measure right 
then, he thinks so still. It is a reward of military merit adopted by the 
wisest and finest nations of Europe. He is for complying with the promise 
made. But is not for giving a hasty opinion on the subject now before 
the house. 

Mr. Lowell moved to add to the motion for postponing " till the first 
Wednesday in January next." 

Mr. Dyer against postponing for so long a time. 

Mr. Cornell not to be alarmed with the apprehensions of the Army 
disbanding or refusing to lay down their arms when the war is over. 
He is acquainted with the officers; he never heard such intemperate 
language from any of them. They are men of judgment and consideration 
and citizens of the U. S. They have an interest in the prosperity of their 
Country. They are sensible of the embarrassed state of our finances and 
will not abandon their duty because every thing cannot be done for them 
at present that ought to be done. They will wait with patience till our 
affairs are in a better situation. He is for postponing till the time 
mentioned. 

Question put and carried in the affirmative." A Report was then made 
by a grand Com'tt consisting of a member from each State who were 
appointed to consider and report the most effectual means of securing 

2 See the Journals, July 30, 31, and no. 569, ante. 



August, 1782 409 

public credit, " that it was their opinion Congress should come to a de- 
cision on the cessions made by Connecticut, New York and Virginia," 
and a motion was made to assign a day for taking up the report. 

Some of the members spoke against it, apprehending that the motion 
referred to the report of a Com'tt on the cessions. 

Mr. Clark thought it involved questions which could not be decided 
till the war was over. He wanted to know where the land lay which was 
ceded ; what right the states which had made the cession had to the land 
they ceded. That the boundaries of the several states should first be settled. 
He was against taking it in consideration now. 

Mr. Lowell wanted to know what right New York had to the lands 
she had ceded; that if any state had a right it must be Massachusetts. 
Connecticut and Virginia. 

Mr. Duatte had no objection to go into an examination of the right 
of New York. He was prejmred to enter on the subject and was furnished 
by his state with documents which he had laid before the grand Com'tt 
and which would prove to the satisfaction of every impartial person the 
incontestable right of New York to the lands ceded. 

Mr. Dyer. Other states have not come so well prepared, it would there- 
fore be improper and injurious to those states who claim the land ceded 
by New York to go into that matter now. The motion being explained 
and confined to the report from the grand Com'tt. 

Mr. Jackson, objects to the consideration of it as a means to establish 
public credit. A good deal of conversation passed on the subject, at last 
the question was put and the yeas and nays being required by Mr. IVither- 
spoon it was lost, only six states being in the affirmative.' 

August I. 

A plan for regulating the departments of the Adjutant General was 
taken into consideration and passed ; the principal debate respecting it was 
on a paragraph for allowing the Adjutant General to draw four soldiers 
from the line as servants to wait on him. It was objected to by Mr. Mont- 
gomery. Mr. Scott, Mr. Witherspoon and Mr. Lee. Mr. Cornell, Mr. 
Bland and Mr. Duane supported it. At length by a compromise the para- 
graph was struck out and the number of servants to be taken from the 
line by the Adj. Genl. was left to be settled by a general regulation which 
should include the officers of the Army.* 

A motion was then made by Mr. Lowell that Mr. John Temple might 
be furnished with a copy of Mr. Adams's Letter of i6th August 1781 
respecting him, the letter being produced and read. 

Mr. Duane objected to the motion as improper. The letter was written 
to Congress by one of their ministers who declares he wrote it without 
the knowledge of Mr. T ; it would tend to destroy confidential com- 
munications from ministers if copies of their letters were made public 
He had no objection against sending a copy to the Executive of Massa- 
chusetts who had ordered an enquiry into the conduct of Mr. T . 

3 See no. 569, note 3, ante, and nos. 583, 606, post. 
* See the Journals, and no. 619, post. 

30 



410 Continental Congress 

Mr. Lowell thought Mr. T had a right to a copy. 

Mr. Lee was of the same opinion. He blamed the conduct and resolu- 
tion of Congress, said they had insinuated suspicions and drawn conclu- 
sions which that letter did not warrant, and therefore he ought to have 
it for his justification. He was personally acquainted with Mr. Temple 
and knew him to be a warm friend to America and had suffered much 
for his attachment to it. 

Mr. Madison denied that Congress had drawn any conclusions from 
that letter prejudicial to the character of Mr. Temple. The jealousies and 
suspicions respecting him were grounded on his conduct which was 
notorious to an American. His coming from England in 1778 by the 
way of New York at the same time the Commissioners were sent. The 
person accompanying him, Doct. Berkenhout, a known agent and emissary 
of the British ministry. His return to England without permission or 
notice given of his intention. The rumours and publications respecting 
his intercourse with the British ministry. His coming again to American 
at a very critical time. These were the circumstances on which the 
suspicions were grounded. And as it was understood that he sheltered 
himself under the cover of being the bearer of public dispatches from 
Mr. Adams and appealed to a letter written in his favour by Mr. Adams, 
Congress related only simple facts ; namely that the subject of the letters 
with which he was entrusted and those which Mr. Adams sent at the 
same time by another conveyance evinced that he had not the full confi- 
dence of the minister and that Mr. Adams Letter did not account for his 
past conduct and explain his future views. He appealed to the records 
of Congress and to the letter just read whether these were not facts truly 
stated. Mr. T's conduct was at least mysterious. Congress acted properly. 
He was against granting him a copy of the letter, but had no objection 
to sending it to the Executive of Massachusetts. 

An adjournment was called for and no question taken.^ 

August 2. 

A Letter from Mr. Jay was read containing an account of his negoti- 
ations with the Spanish ministry from Oct. 3 1781 to April 28 1782, the 
date of the letter ; the delay, chicane and slight he met with and particu- 
larly his embarrassments on account of the bills drawn on him and the 
necessity he was at last under of protesting some of the bills for want 
of money. As soon as the letter was read — 

Mr. Rutledge moved that a Com'tt be appointed to revise the instruc- 
tions given to Mr. Jay and report what alterations and additions if any 
should be made. 

This was seconded from every quarter of the house and a Com'tt of 
five were chosen. 

Mr. Lowell then moved that the Letter of Mr. Jay of the 28th April 
and the instructions given to the ministers for negotiating a peace should 
be referred to the same Committee. 

^ See no. 451, note 3, ante. 



August, 1782 411 

Mr. Madison called for a division. He approved the committing the 
letter but objected against the other part of the motion. It was a delicate 
subject and ought to be handled with caution and circumspection. The 
introducing it at this time would give ground to suspect that there was 
something in the letter which gave rise to it. That the Letter contained 
new proof of the friendship of France. That if at the moment we were 
about to revise and alter the instructions respecting Spain a step was taken 
which might shew our want of confidence in France and give oflPence to 
that Court it might endanger our affairs. 

Mr. Lee had no objection against dividing the question but could not 
be easy nor think himself justified to his constituents until he brought 
forward the subject contained in the other part He did not approve 
the present mode of bringing it on, it was too indirect. He had made 
a motion which was before the house on which he was determined to call 
the yeas and nays. He then inveighed against the instructions of the 15 
June, 1 78 1, as derogatory to the honor, dignity and independence of the 
United States, contrary to the treaties made with France and which must 
expose us to the contempt of our allies and all the nations of Europe. 

Mr. Lowell thought this the most delicate way of introducing the sub- 
ject and which he hoped would have met the sentiments of every member 
as well those who were in favour of as those who were against the in- 
structions. That the subject must be debated, that the motion for referring 
them to a Committee with other matters did not involve the approbation 
or disapprobation of them by Congress and could give no offence. The 
Com'tt might think it proper to adhere to them and make no report or 
if they judged it proper to make any alteration they would have time to 
deliberate on the mode and manner. 

Several other members spoke. On a division the question for com- 
mitting the letter passed in the affirmative and the other part of the motion 
was put off by an adjourment.** 

573. David Howell to Welcome Arnold.^ 

Philadelphia 3 August 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . .^ The establishment of funds to discharge at least the intrest of 
the national debt; and thereby, the revival of national credit, are the great 
objects before us at present. Fighting has grown out of fashion — little 
more of that is to be expected in this Country, but when we shall have 

« See nos. 562, 564, 565, ante, the Journals, Aug. 2, 5-8, and nos. 579, 585, post. 
Jay's letter of Apr. 28 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 336. See also his letter of Oct. 3, 
1 781 {ibid., IV. 738), and Livingston to Jay Apr. 27, 28, 1782 {ibid., V. 332, 2,77)- Jay's 
letter of Oct. 3 was read in Congress Mar. 18. See also the Journals, Mar. 20, 21, and 
nos. 464 (note 3), 498, 505, ante. The question of revising Jay's instructions was involved 
in the larger question of revising the instructions relative to peace. See nos. 597, 599, post. 
[573]' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

- In the omitted passage Howell dilates upon the subject of the five per cent, impost, 
for one thing, and upon democracy, for another. On the latter subject he remarks: " In 
short, as you go Southward, Government verges toward Aristocracy. In New-England 
alone have we pure and unmixed Democracy and in Rhode Island and P. P. is it in its 
perfection. I hope it may be long preserved. Should our little State have the credit of 
preventing the 5 per Cent, from taking effect it would be to us an additional gain." 



412 Continental Congress 

peace God only knows ; although there are appearances of it, and they 
seem to encrease and brighten ; it may however be distant. 

The back-lands are a subject of conversation and which has been lately 
before Congress. There are two different opinions respecting them in Con- 
gress : six States are for acting upon them now, and I think three against 
it and two divided, one of which is ours. Pray give me your opinion, 
or does it accord with our late instructions on that head ? 

We expected the States who hold up extravagant claims to the west- 
ward, might have been prevailed upon to have made liberal cessions to 
the Ud. Us. after the example of New- York and Connecticutt ; but after 
the war is at an end and those lands shall have become more valuable, will 
they not prosecute their claims with more vigour? Now is the time to 
settle this matter, lest, after the war fresh flames should be rekindled 
in a dispute, which will then be considered of more consequence. I am 
not for selling the lands, but should the Ud. Us. hold such a vast territory 
by cessions from the respective States, it would certainly give them credit 
to the amount of their value, and would in time contribute to the discharge 
of our national debt. The States are extending their Settlements and 
claims daily. The lands will more and more be taken up by individuals 
and their claims will increase and gather strength and eventually defeat 
any future advantage to the Continent at large. ^. . . . 

574. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin).^ 

(^. . Philadelphia, 3rd August, 1782. 

You will observe by the public papers the mode that is adopted for hold- 
ing up to public shame the States who are backward in performing their 
share of public service or in contributing their share towards the necessary 
expences of the War. We have not to inform you that North Carolina 
has long been viewed in a very unfavorable point of light. It is our 
Resolution that if she suffers for the future in the voice of Fame, it shall 
not be from the want of a friend to advocate her cause. As a contrast 
to the Monthly Publications of money received for the public use from 
different States we drew up and caused to be published in the Pennsylvania 
Journal and Packet of this date and the first Instant a Summary account 
of what our State has done for the present year, in which we hope that 
you will admit that while we strictly adhered to truth we have given no 
unpleasing picture of our Country, or rather of our fellow Citizens. 

575. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

,j.. Philada. Augst. 5th, 1782. 

By Mr. Lowell who sets out for Boston this day I am favoured with 
an Opp'ty of writeing you It is generally believed that our Enemy 

2 See no. 569, note 3, ante, and no. 580, post. 
[S7AVN. C. State Recs., XVI. 388 (signed, " Hu. Williamson, Wm. Blount"). 
[575] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., C 8i B 83. 



August, 1782 413 

are in Earnest for a general Peace, and it is said have Commiss'rs now 
in France for this purpose, some Gentlemen here are so Sanguine as to 
Say we Shall have peace within a few Months, but I am not of this num- 
ber — are in Daily Expectation of having some Important accounts from 
Europe.^ our affairs in the United Provinces are undoubtedly in a good 
Situation. 

.... Congress have now under Consideration sundry Reports for 
Lessening the Expences of our Army by reducing the number of Officers 
etc., we have now in full pay more than double the number which is 
necessary, but, (from a Variety of Causes) it is hard work to make those 
deductions. I Inclose you a Copy of Resolution of the Legislature of 
Virginia, passed in Consequence of the Recommendation of Congress of 
the 20th Feby. last, it needs no Comments. 

In my Letter of the 17th Ultimo I wrote you respecting the States 
making a Settlement with the Cont'l Troops of their Line for the years 
1780 and 1 78 1. In addition to what I then wrote I would Just Say that 
I cannott find any Resolutions of Congress requiring it, that if New 
Hampshire gives Notes for the Sums due, and the Line of other States 
should have their settlement made here the Consequence will probably be 
that N. H. must Redeem her own obligations given for this purpose, and 
that those which are Settled here will be paid out of Some public Funds 
of which N. H. must Contribute her part. I cannott Say this will be the 
Case but to me it appears probable. I am Sensible that New Hamp'e 
can bring this into the account against the United States, but from present 
appearances I am Inclined to think a very Considerable Period of time 
will Elapse before those Settlements are made — I am aware that some 
settlements have been already made in the State with Officers etc. but 
perhaps the proportion when Compared with those which are Unsettled, 
is small. I would not wish this to the Injury of the N. H. Line, but it 
appears by Lt. Blanchard's representation, that it would be much more 
agreeable to them to have the settlement made here as they could then 
have their Subsistence Money Settled at the same time.^ 

576. John Taylor Oilman to Josiah Bartlett/ 

Philada. Augst. 5th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

The Letter which you did me the favour to write on the 5th Ultimo 
I receiv'd on the 22d. what will be done Respect'g Vermont affairs I 
cannot Say. I Suppose under present Circumstances it would not be 
possible to have anything determined in Congress Respecting them. I am 
well informed that one Reason given (in private by some Gentlemen 
from the Southward) why they would not make them a Seperate State 
is because it would be adding One more to the Votes of the Eastern States, 
which they Say they will not do untill they can add one to the Southern 

2 He had been speaking in particular of Jay's letter of Apr. 28. See no. 572, ante, 
no. 578, post. 

3 See no. 557, ante, and nos. 576, 659, post. 

[576]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II., 1779-1790. 



414 Continental Congress 

likewise. I need not Comment on this. I am Sensible while the Vermont 
business Remains undetermined N. H. will be in an Unhappy Situation. 
I am Informed l)y the New York Delegates that their State has lately 
(in Consequence of Repeated Application) granted a Number of Com- 
missions to people in the County of Cumberland which I think Joins on 
the River, a Member of Congress from New Engld. with whom T am 
Intimately acquainted, this day Shew me Copy of a letter which he was 
going to Send to a Gentn. of high Rank in the State to which he belonged 
and in answer to One he had Reed. Urging that Vermont might be made 
a Seperate State, in which he Says, " I am fully Convinced of the Justice 
and policy of making them a Seperate State, but it is as likely that Great 
Britain will Cede Scotland to the United States as that the present Con- 
gress will make Vermont an Indei>endent State." ^ I wish N. H. may 
not be again Duped in this afifair. I Enclose you a list of officers etc. 
by which you will See how great a Number of Officers some States have, 
who have but few privates,^ and yet in some Instances those States who 
have so few men have (not long Since) made a large number of Officers 
to fill up Vacancies. There is now a Resolution of Congress against 
Issueing new Commissions.* please to keep the Inclosed list in some 
measure Secret (I do not mean from the Comm'te) but would not wish 
to have it made too public. It is Evident that our Minister at the Court 
of Madrid has Reed, dishonourable and Fallacious Treatment from that 
Court. Congress have this afifair now under Consideration what will be 
done I cannott Say but when I consider the Conduct of that Court and 
the Terms heretofore assented to on our part as the Basis of Treaty I 
Really wish a Treaty with them may not take place, but from some 
Information (later than Mr. Jay's tho not Official) it is probable they 
have altered their Conduct and perhaps have before this Concluded a 
Treaty. It seems to be agreed that Spain has decided Intentions of obtain- 
ing Gibralter and that they wish the present War may Continue. The 
Subject of former Instructions to our Commiss'rs Respecting a Treaty 
of peace etc. will I imagine be taken up in a few Days. It is Important 
but what can be done where so much has been undone I cannot Say.'^ 

In my letter to you of the 9th Ultimo I wrote something Respecting 
Loan Office Certificates, this business is in the Same Situation it was 
when I then wrote you. I will Venture to Say to you one thing, which 
is if N. H. does not adopt a System of Policy for her Self she will prob- 
ably be left in the Rear. I am Sorry to Say that it is my Opinion their 
is not a probability of the accounts between the Several States being 
adjusted for a long time.^ I find it is very Expensive living here, beef 
has been frequently sold for i6d. per pound, butter at 3/. Though these 
articles are much higher than things in general Yet almost Every article 

2 This New England delegate has not been identified. With regard to the Vermont 
question see nos. 508, 509, 514, ante, 578, 598, 628, post. 

8 This tabulated list of officers, by states and separate corps, showing their pay, 
emoluments, etc., accompanies Oilman's letter. 

■* See the Journals, July 11; cf. ibid., Apr. 23, Aug. 7, and nos. 585, 586, 618, post. 

f* See no. 572, ante, and nos. 582, 583, 585, 593, 597, 599, post. 

« Cf. no. 659, post. 



August, 1/82 415 

is Dear. I Shall want some money by the first of September but know- 
not how I am to be furnished, if you will Inform me I Shall be thereby 
obliged. Their is Eleven States now Represented in Congress and would 
be 12 but one of the Delegates of Maryland went home a few Days ago. 
it is Expected he will Return Immediately.^ Thus have I almost filled up 
my paper and I am afraid you will think unprofitably. I Should be glad 
to give you more of facts and less of Opinions, but for want of the one 
I adopt the Other. I Shall be glad to hear from you frequently 

P. S. as I write you freely, if you find any part of this or any other 
of my Letters which ought to be kept Secret you will undoubtedly keep 
it as Such. 

577. John Witherspoon, " Part of a Speech in Congress on the 

Finances." ^ 

[August 5, 1782?] » 
Mr. President, 

I have little to say against the resolutions, as they stand reported by the 
superintendant of finance. Perhaps they are unavoidable in the circum- 
stances to which we are reduced. Yet the step seems to be so very im- 
portant, and the consequences of it so much to be dreaded, that I must 
intreat the patience of the house, till I state the danger in a few words, 
and examine whether any thing can possibly be added to it, which may 
in some degree prevent the evils which we apprehend, or at least exculpate 
Congress, and convince the public that it is the efifect of absolute necessity. 

Sir, if we enter into these resolves as they stand, it will l>e a deliberate 
deviation from an express and absolute stipulation, and therefore it will, 
as it was expressed by an honourable gentleman the other day, give the 
last stab to public credit. It will be in vain, in future, to ask the public 
to believe any promise we shall make, even when the most clear and 
explicit grounds of confidence are produced. Perhaps it will be said that 
public credit is already gone ; and it hath been said that there is no more 
in this, than in neglecting to pay the interest of the loan-office certificates 
of later date; but though there were no other differences between them, 
this being another and fresher instance of the same, will have an additional 
evil influence upon public credit. But in fact, there is something more in 

' Turbutt Wright left early in July (he is last recorded as voting June 27), 
and he returned Aug. 19. See no. 525, ante. 

[577P Works of John Witherspoon (Edinburgh, 1815), IX. 125; V. L. Collins, Presi- 
dent Witherspoon, II. 29 (extract). 

2 Witherspoon appears to be addressing himself to the resolutions respecting pay- 
ment of interest on loan-office certificates, found in the Journals under Aug. 5 ; therefore 
it seems probable that the speech was made on that or an approximate date. For the 
antecedent history of the measure see no. 565, ante ; see also no. 579, post. It is scarcely 
probable that Witherspoon would have made such a speech in connection with the resolu- 
tions offered June 26, of which he was himself the author. From Thomson's account of the 
alarm which took place among the holders of loan-office certificates immediately after the 
proposition of June 26 it would appear probable that Witherspoon's attitude toward the 
measure underwent some alteration. Another speech, very similar in character, has been 
conjecturally placed at Sept. 9 (no. 609, ^0.^0- 



416 Continental Congress 

it than in the other. The solemn stipulation of Congress, specifying the 
manner in which the interest was to be paid, was considered as an addi- 
tional security, and gave a value to these certificates, which the others 
never had.^ I beg that no gentleman may think that I hold it a light matter 
to withhold the interest from the other lenders; they will be convinced, 
I hope, of the contrary before I have done ; but 1 have made the com- 
parison merely to shew what will be the influence of this measure upon 
the public mind, and therefore ujx^n the credit and estimation of Congress. 

Now it is plain, that the particular promise of giving bills upon Europe, 
as it had an effect, and was intended to have it in procuring credit, it 
must, when broken or withdrawn, operate in the most powerful manner 
to our prejudice. I will give an example of this, in our melancholy past 
experience. The old continental money was disgraced and sunk, first by 
the act of March i8th, 1780, (which the Duke de Vergennes justly called 
an act of bankruptcy,) telling you would pay no more of your debt than 
sixpence in the pound. This was afterwards further improved by new 
estimates of depreciation, of seventy-five and one hundred and fifty, for 
new state paper, which itself was sunk to two or three for one; and yet 
bad as these men's cases were, the disgrace arising from them was more 
than doubled, by people's referring to, and repeating a public declaration 
of Congress, in which we complained of the injurious slanders of those 
that said we would suflFer the money to sink in the hands of the holders, 
and making the most solemn protestations, that ultimately the money 
should be redeemed dollar for dollar ; and to my knowledge, some trust- 
ing to that very declaration, sold their estates at what they thought a 
high price, and brought themselves to utter ruin. 

I cannot help requesting Congress to attend to the state of those persons 
who held the loan-offi.ce certificates which dtew interest on France; they 
are all, without exception, the firmest and safest friends to the cause of 
America; they were in general the most firm, and active, and generous 
friends. Many of them advanced large sums of hard money, to assist you 
in carrying (on the war in Canada. None of them at all put away even 
the loan-office certificates on speculation, but either from a generous in- 
tention of serving the public, or from an entire confidence in the public 
credit. There is one circumstance which ought to be attended to, vis. 
the promise of interest-bills * on Europe were not made till the loth of 
September, 1777. It was said a day or two ago, that those who sent in 
cash a little before March ist, 1778, had by the depreciated state of the 
money, received almost their principal; but this makes but a small part 
of the money, for there were but six months for the people to put in the 
money, after the promise was made ; only the most apparent justice obliged 
Congress to extend the privilege to those who had put in their money 
before. Besides, nothing can be more unequal and injurious than reckon- 
ing the money by the depreciation either before or after the ist of March, 
1778, for a great part of the money in all the Loan offices was such as had 
been paid up in its nominal value, in consequence of the Tender laws. 

8 See the Jourtials, Apr. 18, June 4, 1780. 
4 See ibid., Aug. 3, Sept. 5, 1780. 



August, 1782 417 

This points you, Sir, to another class of people, from whom money 
was taken, vis. widows and orphans, corporations and public bodies. 
How many guardians were actually led, or indeed were obliged, to put 
their depreciated and depreciating money into the funds — I speak from 
good knowledge. The trustees of the college of New Jersey, in June, 
1777, directed a committee of theirs to put all the money that should 
be paid up to them, in the loan-office, so that they have now nearly invested 
all. Some put in before March, 1778, and a greater part subsequent to 
that date. Now it must be known to every body, that since the j>ayment 
of the interest bills gave a value to these early loans, many have continued 
their interest in them, and rested in a manner wholly on them for support. 
Had they entertained the slightest suspicion that they would be cut off, 
they would have sold them for something, and applied themselves to other 
means of subsistence ; but as the case now stands, you are reducing not an 
inconsiderable number of your very best friends to absolute beggary. Dur- 
ing the whole period, and through the whole system of continental money, 
your friends have suffered alone — the disaffected and lukewarm have aJ- 
ways evaded the burden — have in many instances turned the sufferings 
of the country to their own account — have triumphed over the whigs — 
and if the whole shall be crowned with this last stroke, it seems but reason- 
able that they should treat us with insult and derision. And what faith 
do you expect the public creditors should place in your promise of ever 
paying them at all ? What reason, after what is past, have they to dread 
that you will divert the fund which is now mentioned as a distant source 
of payment? If a future Congress should do this, it would not be one 
whit worse than what has been already done. 

I wish. Sir, this house would weigh a little, the public consequences 
that will immediately follow this resolution. The grief, disappointment 
and sufferings of your best friends, has been already mentioned — then 
prepare yourselves to hear from your enemies the most insulting abuse. 
You will be accused of the most oppressive tyranny, and the grossest 
fraud. If it be possible to poison the minds of the public, by making this 
body ridiculous or contemptible, they will have the fairest opportunity of 
doing so, that ever was put in their hands. But I must return to our 
plundered, long ruined friends; we cannot say to what their rage and 
disappointment may bring them; we know that nothing on earth is so 
deeply resentful, as despised or rejected love — whether they may proceed 
to any violent or disorderly measures, it is impossible to know. We have 
an old proverb. That the eyes will break through stone walls, and for 
my own part, I should very much dread the furious and violent efforts 
of despair. Would to God, that the independence of America was once 
established by a treaty of peace in Europe; for we know that in all great 
and fierce political contention, the effect of power and circumstances is 
very great; and that if the tide has run long with great violence one way, 
if it does not fully reach its purpose, and is by any means brought to a 
stand, it is apt to take a direction, and return with the same or greater 
violence than it advanced. Must this be risked at a crisis when the people 



418 Continental Congress 

begin to be fatigxied with the war, to feel the heavy expence of it, by 
paying taxes ; and when the enemy, convinced of their folly in their 
former severities, are doing every thing they can to ingratiate themselves 
with the public at large. But though our friends should not be induced to 
take violent and seditious measures all at once, I am almost certain it will 
produce a particular hatred and contempt of Congress, the representative 
body of the union, and still a greater hatred of the individuals who com- 
pose the body at this time. One thing will undoubtedly happen; that it 
will greatly abate the respect which is due from the public to this Ixxly, 
and therefore weaken their authority in all other parts of their proceedings. 

I beg leave to say. Sir, that in all probability, it will lay the foundation 
for other greater and more scandalous steps of the same kind. You will 
say what greater can there be? Look back a little to your history. The 
first and great deliberate breach of public faith, was the act of March 
i8th, 1780, reducing the money to forty for one, which was declaring 
you would pay your debt at sixpense in the pound — But did it not turn ? 
No, by and by it was set in this state and others at seventy-five, and finally 
set one hundred and fifty for one, in new paper, in state paper, which 
in six months, rose to four for one. Now, Sir, what will be the case with 
these certificates ? Before this proposal was known, their fixed price was 
about half a crown for a dollar of the estimated depreciated value; when 
this resolution is fairly fixed, they will immediately fall in value, p)erhaps 
to a shilling the dollar, probably less. Multitudes of people in despair, and 
absolute necessity, will sell them for next to nothing, and when the holders 
come at last to apply for their money, I think it highly probable, you will 
give them a scale of depreciation, and tell them, they cost so little that 
it would be an injury to the public to pay the full value. And in truth, 
Sir, supposing you finally to pay the full value of the certificates to the 
holders, the original and most meritorious proprietors will in many, per- 
haps in most cases, lose the whole. 

It will be very proper to consider what effect this will have upon foreign 
nations; certainly it will set us in a most contemptible light. We are 
just beginning to appear among the powers of the earth, and it may be 
said of national, as of private characters, they soon begin to form, and 
when disadvantageous ideas are formed, they are not easily altered or 
destroyed. In the very instance before us, many of these certificates are 
possessed by the subjects of foreign princes, and indeed are in foreign 
parts. We must not think that other sovereigns will suffer their subjects 
to be plundered in so wanton and extravagant a manner. You have on 
your files, letters from the Count de V^rgennes, on the subject of your 
former depreciation; in which he tells you, that whatever liberty you take 
with your own subjects, you must not think of treating the subjects of 
France in the same way ; ^ and it is not impossible that you may hear 
upon this subject, what you little expect, when the terms of peace are 
to be settled. I do not in the least doubt that it may be demanded that you 

^ See Vergennes to John Adams June 20, 1780, to Franklin June 30, and to Adams 
again June 30 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 805, 827, 828) ; also these Letters, vol. V.. 
pp. 476, 478, 490, 497, 509- 



August, 1782 419 

should pay to the full of its nominal value, all the money as well as 
loan-office certificates, which shall be found in the hands of the subjects 
of France, Spain or Holland, and it would be perfectly just. I have 
mentioned France, etc. but it is not only not impossible, but highly 
probable, that by accident or danger, or both, many of these loan-office 
certificates may be in the hands of English subjects. Do you think they 
will not demand payment? Do you think they will make any difference 
between their being before or after March ist, 1778? And will you 
present them with a scale of depreciation? Remember the affair of the 
Canada bills, in the last peace between England and France — I wish we 
could take example from our enemies. How many fine dissertations have 
we upon the merit of national truth and honour in Great Britain. Can we 
think without blushing, upon our contrary conduct in the matter of 
finance? By their punctuality in fulfilling their engagements as to interest, 
they have been able to supjx^rt a load of debt altogether enormous. Be 
pleased to observe. Sir, that they are not wholly without experience of 
depreciation: navy debentures and sailors' tickets have been frequently 
sold at an half, and sometimes even at a third of their value; by that 
means they seem to be held by that class of men called by us speculators. 
Did that government ever think of presenting the holders of them, when 
they came to be i)aid, with a scale of depreciation? The very idea of it 
would knock the whole system of public credit to pieces. 

But the importance of this matter will be felt before the end of the 
war. We are at this time earnestly soliciting foreign loans. With what 
face can we expect to have credit in foreign parts, and in future loans, 
after we have so notoriously broken every engagement which we have 
hitherto made ? A disposition to pay, and visible probable means of pay- 
ment, are absolutely necessary to credit ; and where that is once established, 
it is not difficult to borrow. If it may be a mean of turning the attention 
of Congress to this subject, I beg of them to observe, that if they could 
but lay down a foundation of credit, they would get money enough to 
borrow in this country, where we are. There is property enough here; 
and, comparatively sj^eaking, there is a great number of persons here 
who would prefer money at interest to purchasing and holding real estates. 
The ideas of all old country people are high in favour of real estate. 
Though the interest of money, even upon the very best security there, is 
from four to four and a half, four and three quarters, and five per 
centum ; yet when any real estate is to be sold, there will be ten purchasers 
where one only can obtain it, and it will cost so much as not to bring 
more than two, two and a half, and at most three per centum. 

It is quite otherwise in this country, and indeed it ought to be otherwise. 
To purchase an estate in the cultivated parts of the country, except what 
a man possesses himself, will not be near so profitable as the interest of 
money ; and in many cases where it is rented out, it is so wasted and worn 
by the tenant, that it would be a greater profit at the end of seven years, 
that the land had been left to itself, to bear woods and bushes that should 
rot upon the ground, without any rent at all. Any body also may see, 
that it is almost universal in this country, when a man dies leaving infant 



420 Continental Congress 

children, that the executors sell all his property to turn it into money, 
and put it in securities for easy and equal division. 

All these things, Mr. President, proceed upon certain and indubitable 
principles, which never fail of their efifect. Therefore, you have only to 
make your payments as soon, as regular, and as profitable as other borrow- 
ers, and you will get all the money you want; and by a small advantage 
over others, it will be poured in upon you, so that you shall not need 
to go to the lenders, for they will come to you. 

578. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Phl'a Aug: 5th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

[Franks has arrived] with [a long letter from Jay] ^ being a [sequel 
of] the [insulting] de[lays disappointments] and [tergi]ver[sations 
which form] the [history of] his [mission.] To make our [mortificati]on 
[complete he] was [finally suflfered] to [protest t]he [bills] of Congress 
[tho' t]he [amount did] not [exceed twenty] five thousand [sterg.] The 
[blame of this seemed] justly to [fall] in [part on France] who probably 
meant to make that [display of her importance] to the [U. S.] This 
circumstance with some other [passages] in [Jays letter] which cannot 
be here recited, were [fresh leaven to] the an[tigallic ferment] and [re- 
vived the motion] lately mentioned to you. It [was again susp]end[ed 
by an adjournment] but will be [renewed and pressed] to a [decision.] 
From the [present temper] of [congress] I infer that the [decision] if 
not [reversive] of the [power given to France] in the [negotiation of 
peace] will [denote such] a degree of [discontent and distrust as] will 
greatly [impair the confidence] on the [side of our ally] and may [if dis- 
covered inspire] the [enemy with new hopes] from a [protraction of the 
war.] It is very probable that this [affair will] eventually be [adjusted 
on] some [middle ground.] The [venom against France] will not be 
[assuaged] with [out some] such [expedient.] 

We are still without official information both from Mr. Adams, rela- 
tive to the negociations with the States General, and from Doc'r Franklin 
relative to advances made by the British Ct. at Versailles towards a 
general negociation. That such advances have been made may be inferred 
not only from private reports, but from repeated paragraphs in European 
papers. Whether they be sincere or insidious may be another question. 

Augst. 6th. A letter of the 14th of May has come to hand from Mr. 
[Jay] ® in which he says that he is [called to Paris by Doctor Franklin.] 
This [call can only be in his] capacity of [minister for peace] and in 
consequence of a [prospect if not commencement of negociations.] He 
says nothing on the subject himself, but refers to [intelligence] which he 

[578]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081. 

2 See no. 572, ante. Bracketed words in this paragraph are written in the '' Lovell " 
cipher ; in the addition of Aug. 6 the " official " cipher is used. 

3 Jay's letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 417. 



August, 1/82 421 

takes for granted would previously [arrive] from [Paris.] He con- 
gratulates Mr. [Livingston on the acknowledgement] of our [indepen- 
dence] by the [United Provinces.] This is the first official evidence of 
that event. 

The Committee as a member of which you prepared a certain report 
was yesterday [augmented to five and filled up.] * The present composi- 
tion [of it promises a speedy and favorable report.] The [middle states 
are] rendered apparently very [ductile] by [their fears] of a [coalition 
between the eastern and southern in a change] of [the instructions for 
peace.] 

Mr. [Montgomery] has given [notice to Congress] of his [intention 
to call for the report] on the [case of Vermont and to] lay before them 
such [information as he has acquired.] ''.... 

You will be able to distinguish the paragraphs in which each cypher 
is used without my specification of them. 

579. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[August 5, 6, 1782.] 
Monday, August 5th. 

The superintendant of finances sent in a long letter which was read, 
stating the necessity and advantage of borrowing money towards the 
current expences of the war ; the impossibility of doing this or establishing 
public credit without solid funds for the payment of the interest of the 
money already borrowed as well as of what may be wanted in future, 
pointing out three funds in addition to the 5 per cent on imports and 
prizes, i a tax of a dollar per 100 acres on all land ; 2 a poll tax of a 
dollar per head on all males, paupers and soldiers excepted, above [16] 
and under [60] ; 3 an excise on spirituous liquors, which with the impost 
duty he estimates may amount to 2 millions of Dollars. He then obviates 
the objection that may be raised against granting these funds, warns 
Congress against placing any immediate dependence on back lands, and 
concludes with an estimate of the debt already contracted and an earnest 
exhortation to come to some speedy decision.^ 

Another letter from the superintendant was read enclosing estimates 
of the supplies wanted for the year 1783, amounting to eleven millions 
of Dollars, viz — 

For the War Department 8,106,648.10 

For the Marine Department 2,500,000.00 

Civil List 181,214.38 

Contingencies 212,137.42 



11,000,000.00 



< See no. 599, note 2, post. 
'■' Cf. no. 598, post ; see also no. 576, ante. 
[579]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 83. 

2 The letter of the superintendent of finance, dated July 29, is in the Journals, 
Aug. 5. See nos. 569, 577, ante, no. 606, post. 



422 Continental Congress 

Out of these estimates by proi)er arrangements which he hopes will take 
place he apprehends there may be a saving to the amount of two millions; 
and therefore he proposes only to call for 9 millions, and if the funds 
pointed out in the foregoing Letter be granted or others equally productive 
he proposes that of this 9 millions four should ht borrowed and five 
raised by taxes within the year. He states the necessity of attending to 
the navy and presses an early decision on these matters. 

These two letters with the papers enclosed were referred to a grand 
Com'tt appointed on the 22 July.'^ Some private business was then dis- 
patched after which 

Mr. Bland moved — " That the instructions given on the 15 June 1781 
to the Com'tt for negotiating a treaty of peace be reconsidered and com- 
mitted. This was seconded by Mr. Jackson, but as the day was too far 
spent it was agreed that the discussion of the subject should be deferred 
till next day and an adjournment was called for and agreed to.* 

August 6. 

The delegates for Pennsylvania yesterday informed Congress that 
the commander of the French fleet, which was now off the Capes of 
Delaware, had sent up a message that if the ships in the harbor were 
ready to put to sea he would afford them a convoy from the Coast ; that 
the merchants and the State desirous of improving this opportunity were 
willing to make an attempt on Bermuda if the French admiral could send 
with them some frigates, and therefore they moved that a Com'tt might 
be appointed to confer with the minister of France on the subject. This 
was refused but it was intimated to the Secretary for l^'oreign Affairs 
that he should confer with the minister and report. In consequence of 
this the Secretary for Foreign Affairs this morning reported " that he 
had conferred with the minister of France on the expediency and practica- 
bility of making an attempt on the island of Bermuda — that he had related 
to him what he had learned with respect to the present strength of the 
island and the security the possession of it would give to our commerce 
and that of France, and desired to know whether the Marquis De 
Vaudreuil had any orders that would prevent his undertaking this expe- 
dition or any object with which it would interfere. 

That the minister replied that the operations of the fleet or the propriety 
of detaching any part of it must in some measure depend on the motions 
of the enemy — that he did not know that the marquis had any orders 
that would interfere with the plan mentioned — that he knew he had several 
objects advantageous to the United States, the execution of which he 
would concert with General Washington. The minister wished that this 
plan might be concerted with him, that if it should appear more advan- 
tageous than others which the Marquis had in contemplation he might 

^ Morris's letter transmitting the estimates for 1783, dated July 30, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 636. See also an extract from his Diary, ibid., p. O38. 

* See the Journuts, Aug. 5 ; cf. the motions of Lee and Jackson July 24, Root and 
Lee Aug. 8, Madison and Witherspoon Aug. 8, and those of Witherspoon and Madison 
June 17, Rutledge Aug. 2, and Lowell Aug. 2. See also Thomson's Notes, Aug. 2, 3, 7. 8, 
15, 16, 20, and no. 572, ante, nos. 585, 588, 593, 597, post. 



August, 1782 423 

take measures to carry it into effect. He observed farther that as this 
conquest would be on account of the U. S. it would be necessary to furnish 
it with an American garrison. 

That he (the Secry. for Foreign Affairs) desired to know whether 
troops might not be spared from those on board the fleet to perform 
this service for the U. S. in case they should find it inconvenient to send 
a part of their own army. 

That the minister replied that the whole land force in the fleet was too 
inconsiderable to admit of a reduction, that they were designated to act 
as marines and for the security of the fleet in case they took a post 
to refital, that he concluded with wishing that the desire of Congress 
on this subject should be referred to the general, who upon conferring 
with the Marquis de Vaudreuil would be best able to judge of the 
expediency. 

This report being read, Mr. Bland moved that the conference with the 
minister of France reported by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be re- 
ferred to the Commander in chief to take order if he thinks the measure 
alluded to expedient and not interfering with other operations of greater 
importance that have been concerted or may be effected. 

This brought on a debate. 

Mr. Lee was against referring it in the first instance to the Gen'rl; it 
was one of those cases mentioned in the treaty which required a previous 
Convention to settle the compensation. If it was undertaken without such 
a convention the French might conquer it for themselves or demand such 
a compensation that could not be granted. That the General could not 
settle the compensation, because it must be in money and the General 
had no right to appropriate money. 

Mr. Duunc was against referring the report to the General because it 
would hold up the object in too strong a point of view. When the matter 
was first introduced it was only mentioned as an object that might be 
adopted in case the fleet was going off the coast, either on their return 
to Europe or the W'est Indies. In this light he would have no objection 
against referring it to the General. That if the fleets staid any time on 
the coast there were other objects of far greater importance, such as the 
attack of N. York. He was therefore for committing it that it might 
be represented in the light in which it was first introduced. Mr. Jackson 
was of the same opinion, thought there were several other objects which 
required greater attention, mentioned — an attempt on Halifax or the 
reduction of Penobscot. He was for committing. 

Mr. Rutledgc thought that the motion was well guarded. He had no 
objection against accompanying the reference with a letter to explain the 
views of Congress, but was against committing. 

Mr. Clark was against committing and against referring unless the 
words *' to take order " were exi>unged and the words " to report " were 
inserted. 

Several others spoke on the occasion. Xt length the (juestion for com- 
mitment was put and passed in the negative. 



424 



Continental Congress 



On the question for referring it to the Com'r in chief, the yeas and 
nays being required by Mr. Clark — 



No. 



New Hampshire, 


Mr. 


Oilman, 


No. 


Massachusetts, 


Mr. 
Mr. 


Osgood, 
Jackson, 


No. 
No. 


Rhode Island, 


Mr. 
Mr. 


Cornell, 
Howell, 


No. 
No. 


Connecticut, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Root, 

Huntington, 

Dyer, 


No. 
No. 
No. 


New York, 


Mr. 
Mr. 


Duane, 
Scott, 


No. 
Ay. 


New Jersey, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Clark, 

Condict, 

Witherspoon, 


No. 
No. 
No. 


Pennsylvania, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Montgomery, 
Smith. 
Clymer, 
Wynkoop, 


Ay. 
Ay. 
Ay. 
Ay. 


Delaware, 


Mr. 
Mr. 


McKean, 
Wharton, 


Ay. 
Ay. 


Maryland, 


Mr. 


Hanson, 


Ay. 


Virginia, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Madison, 

Bland, 

Lee, 


Ay. 
Ay. 
No. 


N. Carolina, 


Mr. 
Mr. 


Williamson, 
Blount, 


No. 
No. 


S. Carolina, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Rutledge, 
Ramsay, 
Izard. 
Middleton, 


Ay. 
Ay. 
No. 
No. 


Georgia, 


Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 


Telfair, 

Jones, 

Few, 


No. 
No. 
No. 



: }- 



No. 



■Divided. 



No. 



Ay. 



'Ay. 



Ay. 



No. 



Divided. 



I-No. 



So it passed in the negative.'' 

The Committee consisting of Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Duane, Mr. Madison, 
Mr. Osgood and Mr. Montgomery appointed " to revise and consider the 



° See the motion of the Pennsylvania delegates, in the Journals, Aug. 5. The pro- 
ceedings Aug. 6 are not recorded in the Journals. Cf. no. 331, ante. 



August, 1/82 425 

instructions from Congress to Mr. Jay and to report if any and what 
alterations or additions should be made therein " reported the following 
resolution : 

" That the minister plenipotentiary at the court of Spain be instructed 
in case any propositions be made to him by the said Court for a treaty 
with the U. S. to decline acceding to the same until he shall have trans- 
mitted them to Congress for their approbation ; unless the treaty proposed 
be of such a tenor as to render his accession thereto necessary to the fulfil- 
ment of the stipulation on the part of the U. S. contained in the separate 
and secret article of their treaty with his most Christian majesty, in which 
case he is to conclude such a treaty on the first requisition of his Catholic 
majesty. 

" That Mr. Jay be at liberty to leave Spain and go into any other 
part of Europe whenever the state of his health may require it." 

This report being called for and read, 

Mr. Lee moved that the latter part of the first resolution, " unless the 
treaty etc." to the end, be struck out. He observed that Congress were not 
bound by that secret article, as Spain had refused or declined to accede. 
That she had no right to the indulgence mentioned. 

Mr. Montgomery called for the secret article, which was read, and in 
which a power is reserved to Spain of acceding to the treaties of com- 
merce and alliance with France at any time she may think proper. 

Mr. Lee said any time meant a reasonable time, that reasonable time 
had been allowed and she has absolutely refused and therefore Congress 
is no longer bound. 

Mr. Jones seconded his motion. 

Mr. Montgomery was of a diflferent opinion. The terms of the secret 
article were express that Spain should have liberty to accede when she 
thought proper. That she was to judge of the time and that the U. S. 
were bound to admit her accession, 

Mr. Izard called for a letter of Mr. Jay wherein he mentioned that the 
Count de Florida Blanca declared that the court of Spain would not agree 
that the treaties between them and his M. Christian Majesty and the 
U. S. should be the foundation of a treaty between the U. S. and Spain. 

This letter not being at hand, 

Mr. Duane arose and observed that we had nothing to do with Spain. 
The secret article was made with France. She on account of the strict 
connection between her and Spain stipulated and reserved this privilege 
to Spain. We have solemnly agreed to it and pledged our faith to France 
to receive her accession and facilitate the means to it whenever she thinks 
it a proper time. Can any thing Spain has yet done justify our violating 
our faith to France? Because Spain has offended shall we break with 
France and so soon violate the first treaty made with us ? 

Mr. Ramsay is against the amendment ; had rather America should lose 
its existence than its faith and honor. 

Mr. Madison is also against the amendment ; grants that there is some 
weight in the observation of his colleague with regard to the time of 
Spain's accession. That the design of France was to engage Spain to 

31 



426 Continental Congress 

enter into the present war and guarantee the indei)endence of the U. S. 
agst. G. B, Should she decline acceding until the conclusion of the war 
she ought not to be entitled to the benefit of the alliance or the future 
guarantee of the U. S. for her American possessions. He was not for 
striking out the paragraph or for limiting the time without the consent 
and concurrence of France. 

Mr. Root spoke on the same side. 

Mr. Bland thinks a treaty with Spain of no advantage to the U. S. If 
she wants a treaty let her sue for it and let Congress judge of the terms. 

Mr. Lee. Gentlemen had mistaken his meaning. He did not mean to 
violate the engagements entered into by the secret article ; no man could 
be more averse to such a measure than he. He only meant that we should 
not shew too great a desire to enter into an alliance with Spain, which 
would be the case if the paragraph stood. Spoke of the interested views 
of Spain. 

Mr. Witherspoon observed that some gentlemen had under rated the 
services of Spain. She had done much. She had entered into the war 
with the common enemy. We had derived as much advantage from her 
exertions as if she had agreed to the treaty of alliance, for in that case 
she would have had a right to prosecute the war in such way as she 
thought proper and might have undertaken the siege of Gibralter etc 
and would have been justified in so doing. Besides this she had aided us 
with money, opened her ports and admitted us to trade to Havannah. He 
is for retaining the clause ; it gives a dignity to the report and will place 
our conduct in the fairest point of view. We are not perfectly satisfied 
with the reception our minister has received ; we will not teaze Spain with 
solicitation; but we will leave her to judge of the time and when she 
thinks it proper we will be ready to comply with our engagements. 

Mr. Rutledge. Concurs in sentiments with those who think we are 
bound by the secret article, and therefore will be against the present 
amendment but reserves the liberty of moving as he shall move to strike 
out the words " in which case " to the end, because it goes too far as he 
will show at a proper time. 

Mr. Clark, before he gives an opinion on the amendment wants to 
know the meaning of the report ; apprehends it is only calculated to repeal 
the instruction given respecting the navigation of the Mississippi; if that 
is the design he is for speakng out plainly. However he will be against 
the present amendment. 

Question put, shall the words stand, lo states in the affirmative, Georgia 
against it. 

Mr. Rutledge then moved and was seconded by Mr. McKean to strike 
out the words " in which case " etc. to the end. He observed by the secret 
article that a right was reserved to Spain not only to accede to the treaties 
of amity and commerce and of alliance at any time she thinks proper, but 
also to propose one analogous to them founded on the principles of equality, 
reciprocity and friendship, that in either case we were bound to admit 
her and in the latter had promised to endeavour in good faith an adjust- 
ment of the points in which the King of Spain may propose any alteration. 



August, 1^82 427 

That this latter case supposed and necessarily required deliberation and 
discussion and therefore that part of the instructions was improper. The 
words were accordingly struck out and the resolution with the amendment 
passed N. C. D.^ 

580. David Howell to Moses Brown.^ 

Philada. 6 Augt. 1782. 
Sir, 

. ..." I pray you to mention me to my friends and to communicate 
to as many as you may see fit the Substance of this Letter. You may also 
inform them that I am fully of opinion that few if any States in the 
Union will comply with the late revenue recommendations of Congress. 
Several States have had them under consideration, Some have partially 
complied. Their acts I propose to send to the State as soon as they may 
come to hand, to the end that you may not be imposed upon in regard 
to the doings of other States as you was last year. Notwithstanding the 
promptness and boasting of Pennsylvania it will appear that our State 
has contributed more to the cause than they have in every point of view — 
in money, men, loan[s and] Specifics — and another fact will also app[ear] , 
that State, in the first Stages of the war, when m[oney] was of value 
reed, more out of the Treasury th[an] any other, (I trust) in the Union. 
With wh[at] ill grace then have they set themselves to villify oth[ers]. 



581. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 6th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We received the Letter your Excellency did us the honor to write the 
27th ult.' 

The Committee to whom your Excellency's letter, touching the garrisons 
of York and Gloucester was referrd, being pressd by us for their report, 
informd Congress, that they waited for some arrangements, which the 
Secretary at war was making on that subject, in order to compleat their 
report. These we understand to be, the dissmission of those garrisons, as 
soon as the f rench Stores are removd ; which they state as the reason for 
Count Rochambau's having desired to have them established. We shall 
attend to the interest of the State when the Report appears.' 

All possible enquiry shall be made respecting Mr. Linctot.* 

« See the Journals, Aug. 2, 6, 7, and nos. 572, 578, ante, 585, 587, post. 
[580]! R. I, Hist. Soc., Moses Brown Papers. 

2 In an omitted passage Howell speaks of the probable movement toward a general 
peace. 

[581 ]i Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 The governor's letter is in Official Letters, HI. 281. 

s See nos. 561, 570, ante, 589, post. 

* Maj. Geoflfrey Linctot, an ally of George Rogers Clark. See Wisconsin Hist. 
Colls., XL 105, XVHL 212, and passim; also Illinois Hist. Colls., VHL (George Rogers 
Clark Papers), Passim. 



428 Continental Congress 

Tho no official accounts have been receivd of the evacuation of Savannah, 
yet it is not doubted; and it is expected that of Charles-town will soon 
follow. Advices from Europe make it probable, that a negociation for a 
general Peace has commencd ; but on what terms, or with what probability 
of succeeding we are yet to learn. 

We expected instructions from the general Assembly, on the Fishery, 
tite admission of Vermont into the union, the western cession and the 
navigation of the Mississippi. But we have not receivd any. 
We have the honor to be with the most perfect respect 
Yr. Excellency's most Obedt. and most Humb'e Servts. 

A. Lee 
J. Madison Jr. 

P. S. Upon enquiry we find that Mr. Morgan '^ was the only continental 
Agent for Indian Affairs; and that the Officers here know nothing of 
Mr. Linctot. 

Theo'k Bland except [ ?] that part marked with a dash underneath 

having already voted on that Question. ° 
A Lee. 

582. Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 6th, 1782. 
Dear friend. 

As I was in Virginia when Mr. Lowell arrivd here, it was some time 
before I receivd your favor by him. It gives me a good deal of concern 
that we are so soon to lose that Gentleman, his integrity and abilities 
rendering him an ornament to Congress. 

Every thing from England seems to announce a real disposition to 
peace. But it is very surprising that by six or seven opportunities from 
France, we have not receivd a line from our minister. Not even by Major 
Frankes who came as a special Messenger. And what is yet more astonish- 
ing, we have not a word from Mr. Adams relative to the late important 
proceedings in Holland. I am apprehensive, his Dispatches were sent thro 
France; and were stopt there. This profound silence on subjects so inter- 
esting together with the perilous and humiliating situation we are in 
touching the Negociation for Peace, I own alarm me. I am very much 
inclind to think that France will be for protracting the war, or for turning 
the chief advantages of it to herself and to Spain. Mr. Jay's last Letter " 
suggests strong suspicions of that Court, and we have put ourselves shame- 
fully and entirely in her power as to the conditions of Peace. 

'^ Col. George Morgan, chosen agent for Indian affairs in the Middle department 
Apr. ID, 1776. 

* The underscored phrase is the admission af Vermont into the union. The letter 
bears the governor's endorsement, " to be laid before Ass." 
[582] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Jay's letter of May 14. See no. 578, ante. 



August, 1782 429 

Spain appears to have been acting a part as silly as it is selfish ; and 
to be covering the weakness of her Councils, by the insincerity of her 
conduct. Some spirited measures will be taken respecting that Court: 
merely because bravado in one instance, is some consolation for servility 
in another. For our interests seem out of the question in that quarter, 
She being no ways desirous of treating with us. 

I am of a Committee appointed to inspect the department of Mr. Morris. 
Mr. Duane is the Chairman.^ Such a choice seemd to point out that Con- 
gress did not mean the inspection shoud be productive of public good. 
Nor have I any reason to think it will. All the Monies of the U. S. ought 
to go into the Treasury and be issued from thence, the Treasurer being 
a chosen and sworn Officer and giving security for his fidelity. Mr. Morris 
has began to deviate from this line by putting half the Monies of the 
Public into the hands of his quondam Clerk, where he may not only have 
a more certain use of them for his private purposes, but be coverd in 
every thing he does. Shoud this manouvre pass muster, the whole will 
soon go into the same channel, and the Institution and checks of a treasury 
be rendered entirely useless. I am apprehensive that it will not only pass 
uncorrected, but receive the collateral approbation of an allowance to this 
•Swanwick for his services. The accumulation of Offices in this man. 
the number of valuable appointments in his gift, the absolute controul 
given him over all the Revenue officers, his money, and his art; render 
him a most dangerous man to the Liberty of this Country, as his excessive 
avarice does to the Treasure of the public so much in his power. Our 
funds in France are in hands equally rapacious and less responsible. This 
ravenous spirit prompted Dr. F. to do what amounted to an absolute 
robbery. It is this. Col. Laurens had obtained a million and a half of 
livres from the french Court, to bring over hither for the support of our 
credit. It was deposited in Specie at Amsterdam and by the order of Col. 
Laurens to be brought by Major Jackson in the 6\ Carolina. When Col. 

^ The committee was appointed July 2, pursuant to a resolve of June 17, but several 
changes of personnel were made : one on Nov. 21, another Dec. 19, and another Apr. 23, 
1783. The following extract from the Diary of Robert Morris, dated Aug. 29, gives 
some indication of the activity of the committee : 

" Mr. Duane, Arthur Lee, Abraham Clark, and Samuel Osgood, a committee of inquiry, 
came this morning and proceeded in their business. They desired me to make out an 
account of all the moneys that have come into my hands and those which I have paid. They 
asked the reasons for employing Mr. Swanwick, and proceeded in other parts of their 
inquiry until the hour for going to Congress arrived. They inquired into the reasons for 
appointing receivers of continental taxes in each State, and Mr. Clark expressed doubts 
of my authority to make those appointments. I therefore produced the acts of Congress 
of the 3d of November, 1781, which satisfied him on that point. I informed the committee 
that my reasons for making new appointments, in preference to employing the loan officers, 
were, first, the loan officers have not settled their accounts with the United States, and 
some of them have long accounts depending ; secondly, although some of them may be fit, 
all are not; thirdly, had the money paid by the States, for the current expenses of the year, 
been put into the hands of the loan officers, the people entitled to the interest on loan-office 
certificates, issued by these gentlemen, would have been very clamorous for payment. They 
would not have entered into or admitted the distinction of moneys granted for revenue or 
for current expenses of the year." Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 676. 

See also Morris to Washington, Aug. 29, 30, Sept. 9 (ibid., V. 676, 679, 714), Morris to 
Congress Sept. 9 (ibid., p. 714)1 and the Journals, Sept. 10, 14. Although not named in 
Morris's memorandum above, McKean was also a member of the committee. See no. 583, 
Post. 



430 Continental Congress 

L. h[ad] saild, Dr. F. by threats and orders prevails on Majr. Jackson 
to g-ive up the money, and has it remitte[d] to him at a loss to the U. S. 
of 19500 livres, beside [s] the disappointment and embarrassment of our 
Finances here. This Transaction will I ha[ve] no doubt pass also un- 
punishd and uncensurd. 

Your friends in Virginia were well when I left them, and remember 
you with affection. My respects to Mrs. Adams and remembrances to 
G^nl. Ward and all our friends. 

583. Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams.^ 

Dear Sir, 

.... The subject you mention in your favor of the 19th September 
last is now likely to be taken into full consideration, I mean an American 
Navy.* It is very much the conversation out of doors, and appears to be 
popular. The great losses lately sustained by the merchants from the 
too numerous captures by the enemy, engages the whole mercantile interest 
in the measure ; in short, every thing seems not only to invite but to de- 
mand an immediate attempt to establish one. Money alone appears to be 
wanting to make a beginning : The acknowledgement of our Independence 
by the Dutch affords a dawn of hope respecting that matter. There is 
a large Committee appointed to devise ways for the re-establishment of 
national credit, and for the procuring money on Loan, of which I am a 
member. If we can obtain an undisputed title to the Western lands, that 
belonged to the Crown of Great Britain, and have been conquered by the 
blood and treasure of the United States, as a fund to borrow upon ; and 
can by a land and poll tax, or otherwise, obtain sufficient sums for the 
payment of the interest until one year after a peace, or until these lands 
can be sold for the purpose of discharging the principal, I am not without 
hopes of getting as much money in the United Provinces of the Nether- 
lands and amongst ourselves, as would answer our present purposes and 
build a dozen ships of war such as the Carolina; which construction would 
render the British frigates in a great degree useless in this country from 
the inferiority in strength, and be the cheapest with respect to both men 
and money. The Superintendant of Finance is very well inclined to these 
proceedings and will contribute all in his power to their furtherance,^ 

Congress is at present composed of virtuous men, and were it not for 
some diversity of opinions respecting the Fisheries and Western Lands 
there would be more harmony in that Body than I have heretofore ob- 
served. This will be an important year. May God direct and over-rule 
all our Councils to the establishment of an honorable and lasting peace, 
and to the happiness of the good people of the United States in particular 
and of mankind in general. 

[583]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (addressed to Adams "at Boston 
favoured by the Hono'ble Mr. Lowell") ; Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers. IL 74 (draft, 
dated Aug. 5). 

2 Adams's letter is in Writings, IV, 262. 

3 See no. 582, ante. 



August, 1782 431 

My expressions respecting the Spaniards etc. would have been more 
guarded, but that this will go by Mr. Lowell, and will therefore get safe 
to hand 

Philadelphia, August 6th 1782, 

584. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Phila. August 7th, 1782.^^ 

Sir, 

We have reed, no information respecting the negociation for peace, 
said to be carrying on in Paris, but through the channel of British papers. 
Great tumults have taken place in New York among the Tory and 
refugees in consequence of the advices from England and the measures 
taken by Sir Guy Carlton in respect to them. 

The garrison from Savanna have arrived at New York ; unfortunately 
for us they had not been intercepted by the French fleet, which they very 
narrowly escaped. Some additional instructions relative to the terms of 
peace are preparing by Congress to be sent to our ministers in Europe. 



585. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[August 7-9, 1782.] 
Wednesday, August 7th. 

Mr. Rutledge moved for an addition to the instructions which passed 
yesterday which was agreed to and the instructions as amended and finally 
agreed to are as follows : 

" Resolved, That the minister plenipotentiary at the Court of Spain 
be instructed to forbear making any overtures to that court or entering 
into any stipulations in consequence of overtures which he has made, and 
in case any propositions be made to him by the said Court for a treaty 
with the U. S. to decline acceding to the same until he shall have trans- 
mitted them to Congress for their approbation ; unless the treaty proposed 
be of such a tenor as to render his accession thereto necessary to the 
fulfilment of the stipulation on the part of the U. S. contained in the 
separate and secret article of their treaty with his most Christian majesty. 

" That Mr. Jay be at liberty to leave Spain and to go into any other 
part of Europe when ever the state of his health may require it." ^ 

[584]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 373, 

- The Massachusetts delegates, Samuel Osgood and Jonathan Jackson, wrote to 
Governor Hancock Aug. 7 that they had that day had an interview with the minister of 
France at his request, relative to two Frenchmen charged with disorderly conduct in 
Massachusetts and haled before the judicial authority of the state. The French consul 
and the commodore in the harbor of Boston had called in question the right of the Massa- 
chusetts tribunal to exercise authority in the case; but the minister "is in Opinion that 
neither the Consul nor the Commodore have any Right to interfere in this Matter, and he 
appears to be well satisfied with the Proceedings hitherto made, by the Authority of 
Massachusetts against those Frenchmen ". Mass. Arch., CCIV. 226. 

1585]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 92. 
2 Cf. nos. 572, 576, 579, ante, 586, 587, post. 



432 Continental Congress 

The Com'tt for retrenching the expenditures of the United States in 
the several departments having reported a plan for arranging the army, 
in which it was proix)sed the troops of each state should be formed into 
complete battalions of not less than 500 rank and file by draughting the 
junior into the senior regiments, that no more officers be retained than 
what were necessary to command the regiments and that the suix;rnumerary 
officers should retire on half pay until called into service or be employed 
in the staff department. When the paragraph respecting the retiring 
officers was under debate, 

Mr. Montgomery thought if the officers were liable to be called into 
service they ought to be allowed their full pay, as they could not enter 
into business or make solid arrangements for their future support and 
subsistance. 

Mr. Clark thought that the burthen of the half pay should be thrown 
ujxjn the states which were deficient in their number of men and prepared 
an amendment to that purjwse. The amendment appearing in the light 
of a substitute was not admitted whereupon he moved and was seconded 
by Mr. Root to strike out the whole paragraph. 

Mr. Root was of opinion that according to the Articles of Confedera- 
tion Congress ought to fix the number of troops necessary, assign to the 
States their respective quotas and call upon them to furnish those quotas, 
and that each State would be obliged to furnish its troops with the proper 
number of officers or would be answerable for the deficiency. 

Mr. Dyer. Of all the evils attending this war that of the half pay was 
never foreseen or thought of by the States. Having spoken for some 
time against a half pay establishment, he then undertook to obviate Mr. 
Montgomery's objections and to shew that it was just and reasonable and 
what no officer could complain of to allow men whose services were not 
wanted to retire on half pay until called again into service; but when the 
war was over all half pay should cease. On the question the paragraph 
was confirmed by eight States and the arrangement was agreed to by 
the votes of nine States,^ 

August 8th. 

After the house had passed a vote for reinforcing the garrison at 
Fort Pitt with 300 militia from Pennsylvania and Virginia and decided 
on a report respecting two Canadians.* 

Mr. Lee arose and reminded the house that there was a business before 
them of the greatest importance ; that the interest, the honor and the safety 
of these States were so much concerned that he could not be easy nor 
stand justified to himself or his constituents until he had done everything 
in his power to bring it to determination. He therefore moved 

" That the instructions given on the 15 June 1781 to the ministers 
plenipotentiary for negotiating a peace be reconsidered." This was 
seconded by Mr. Bland and some other members. But Mr. Root rising 

■^ With regard to the committee on reducing expenditures see no. 550, note 4, ante ; 
d. no. 618, post. 

* The Canadians were Joseph Traversie and Dominique I'Eglise. See the 
Journals. 



August, 1782 433 

and expressing a desire that the motion might be expressed in such terms 
as to avoid all debates concerning the effects of a reconsideration, he 
moved " That a Com'tt be appointed to revise and consider the instructions 
given to our ministers for negotiating a peace with Great Britain, and 
report what alterations ought to be made therein." 

Mr. Lee said he wished only for a fair discussion of the subject and 
to avoid every difficulty and debate arising from forms and therefore 
withdrew his motion and seconded that of Mr. Root. 

Mr. Rutledge is resolved to adhere strictly to the principles of the alliance 
with France, and to shew her all the respect and confidence which one 
nation would shew to another. He had full confidence in her magnanimity, 
but is doubtful whether Congress had power to surrender themselves 
into her hands. The case is delicate ; he does not wish to give an opinion ; 
he may upon mature deliberation. The Com'tt think it proper not to alter 
the instruction. It deserves consideration. He is therefore for appointing 
a Committee; if upon the most mature deliberation the Com'tt shall be 
of opinion that any alterations should be made they will report what they 
think proper; if they are of a contrary opinion they will say nothing 
about them. He found by looking over the journals that instructions had 
been given respecting a treaty of commerce and that afterwards these 
were withdrawn and repealed and nothing farther done on the subject. 
He thought the Com'tt to be appointed should be instructed to take this 
matter into consideration and report what was proper to be done. 

Mr. Williamson said he had listened with the greatest attention to the 
arguments offered He had examined the instructions given. He did not 
think them of so dangerous a nature as was represented. The independence 
of the States and the principles of the alliance and treaty of commerce 
were fully secured. These were made ultimate, and not to be given up 
on any account. The matters in which the ministers were ultimately to 
be governed by the opinion of France were only what respected disputed 
boundaries, the fisheries and other matters which might come into dis- 
cussion at the treaty. 

Mr. Rutledge. The boundaries were everything; what are the States? 
They must have boundaries. Is France to say what those boundaries 
shall be and must we submit ? 

Mr. Lee differs in opinion with the gentleman from North Carolina, 
it is not sufficient that the indej^endence of these States is secured. But 
he doubts whether even that is secured by the instructions. He is afraid 
of the accompaniment. That we shall be so circumscribed in our bounda- 
ries that our independence will be a nugatory independence. France in 
making a treaty will be governed by her own interest and from her long 
and close connection with Spain and prefer it to ours. Is it wise, is it 
proper to give a nation the absolute disposal of our affairs that is under 
the influence of two interests which she is bound to consult in preference 
to that of these States ? This unlimited confidence will render us despicable 
in the eyes of France and make her less attentive to our rights. We have 
been informed by a minister of France that Spain has large claims on 
the lands beyond the mountains. Her conduct shews that she means to 



434 Continental Congress 

support her claim to that Country. She wishes to confine us to the lands 
lying below the heads of the waters falling into the Atlantic. We are 
told that she thinks she has a right to possess herself of all to the west- 
ward. And shall we submit it to France, her old friend and ally, whether 
her claims shall be confirmed and we be excluded from the possession 
of that Country? Besides the power and instructions we have given will 
be dangerous to France and render her suspected by the other nations 
of Europe. Her language to the other powers of Europe has been that 
she entered into the war to support our independence; that we were left 
at liberty to grant the same indulgence and privileges to other nations 
that were granted to her. What will the other nations of Europe think 
when at the treaty of peace they find her entrusted with the whole, the 
absolute disposal of our affairs ? Will they not become jealous ? Will they 
not think she has deceived or means to deceive them? The instructions 
are also dangerous to the United States. It is essentially giving up the 
independence of these States and becoming dependents on the minister 
of France. For notwithstanding what is said in the former part of the 
instructions respecting independence and adherence to the principles of 
the treaties, as the clause comes afterwards by which our ministers are 
bound to govern themselves ultimately by the advice and opinion of 
France he is strong in the opinion and thinks he will be warranted by 
the rules of construction and the judgment of all men that this supersedes 
the former : and shall this be suffered to come in doubt ? He is for binding 
the minister to pay the utmost respect and place the utmost confidence 
in France, to take no steps without consulting her. Thus everything will 
be done that can and ought to be done. Can any friend of France desire 
more? Can any gentleman in this house wish to continue to her a power 
that will be ruinous to our independence, dangerous to herself, expose 
us to the contempt and scorn of all the nations of Europe, and bring upon 
both her and us their jealousy and perhaps their resentment? 

Mr. Madison grants that the instructions given are a sacrifice of national 
dignity. But it was a sacrifice of dignity to policy. The situation of affairs 
and circumstances at the time rendered this sacrifice necessary. Nothing 
essential is given up, nor did it render our situation less precarious than 
it was before ; nay he was persuaded that this mark of confidence gave an 
additional security to our interests as the Court of France must be sensible 
that the odium of unequal or hard conditions will now rest wholly on her. 
At least he was sure that the instructions given did not weaken that se- 
curity. Our interests are as safe in her hands now as they were before 
or as if the ministers were left wholly to their discretion. Our ministers 
may still, notwithstanding the instructions given, state and assert our 
claims and contend with the utmost earnestness for our rights, and it is 
only in the last extremity when all their pleas, all their reasoning and all 
their most earnest endeavours prove ineffectual that they are ultimately 
to govern themselves by the advice and opinion of the Court of France ; 
and must not this have been the case if the instructions had never been 
given? France has voluntarily bound herself by the treaties she has 
entered into with us to secure and guarantee our independence and 



August, 1/82 486 

sovereignty absolute and unlimited as well in matters of government as 
commerce. What indication has she given of any alteration of sentiment 
or conduct towards us ? It is her interest as well as policy to secure the 
affections of the people of these States and forever separate us from G. 
Britain. She can never think us formidable to her while we continue 
absolutely independent, nor will she ever object to our enlarging our 
boundaries or increasing our commerce and naval power unless we give 
her reason to suspect a want of confidence in her and a disposition to 
reunite ourselves with her ancient enemy. In that case interest and policy 
will both unite and induce her to keep us as weak as possible. Whether 
withdrawing our confidence at this critical moment will not give just 
grounds of suspicion and jealousy he leaves gentlemen to determine. There 
was a passage in Mr. Jay's letter lately read which made a strong im- 
pression on him; he did not know whether it made the same on others. 
He meant that passage which mentioned the fears and suspicions occa- 
sioned by the late change in the British administration, lest the men now 
in office who had always professed themselves friends to America and 
had in such severe terms condemned the war might influence the councils 
and conduct of the Americans. The withdrawing the instructions given 
on the 15th June, 1781, added to what has passed with regard to Spain, 
will increase that jealousy. 

Let us consider how it will operate on Great Britain. Tired with the 
war and disappointed in all her attempts to separate us from France, 
there is reason to think there are serious thoughts of peace, but flushed 
with her late success and flattered with the hopes of rising dissentions 
and jealousies between us and the other belligerent, will she not be en- 
couraged to prosecute the war with new vigour and try by redoubled 
eflForts to reduce us to her power ? 

But it is said our dignity is stained, and that we must revoke the instruc- 
tions in order to wipe oflf that stain and restore its lustre. But will this 
do? Will it repair our loss of dignity in the eyes of the nations of Europe 
to convince them we are a people unstable in our councils and measures, 
governed wholly by circumstances, abject and profuse of promises when 
in distress and difficulties, but who veer about on a change of circumstances 
and on whose promises and professions no reliance can be placed? In a 
word, continued he, I am persuaded that a change in the instructions will 
not add to our security. I am persuaded that it will give umbrage to our 
ally, and by a seeming act of ingratitude or of diffidence awaken her 
suspicions and jealousies, and abate her zeal in our favour. I am persuaded 
that the umbrage and jealousy which this measure will excite will be 
prejudicial to us and will give encouragement to our enemy to prosecute 
the war. I am persuaded it is now too late to alter, and that withdrawing 
our confidence will not cure the wound given to our national dignity. For 
all these reasons I shall be against touching the instructions given. But 
if any member thinks that anything farther can be done to secure to the 
United States the several objects claimed by them. I shall have no ob- 
jections to that, it being well understood that no encroachment is to be 
made on the instructions given, but thev are to remain in their full force. 



436 Continental Congress 

I shall therefore move that the motion before the house be post|x>iiecl, and 
if that is carried I shall then move — 

That a Com'tt be appointed to take into consideration and report 
to Congress the most advisable means of securing to the United States 
the several objects claimed by them and not included in their ultimatum 
for peace of the 15th day of June 1781. 

I now move that the consideration of the motion before the house be 
postponed. 

Mr. Witherspoon seconded the motion. Said that if he had been agst. 
the instructions at the time they passed, he would now from circumstances 
be against altering them. But he would remind gentlemen that the passing 
the instructions of the 15 June 1781, against which exceptions were now 
taken, was only the least of two evils which Congress were reduced to 
a choice of. A difference in sentiment had arisen between the Count de 
Vergennes and Mr. Adams respecting the use the latter thought he ought 
to make of the discretionary powers with wch he was intrusted. This 
dispute was maintained by Mr. Adams with a pertinacity that gave just 
offence more especially as it must be allowed and Congress were sensible 
he was wrong. Besides this Mr. Adams entered into another dispute with 
Count de Vergennes on a subject which had no immediate connection with 
his mission. These disputes had given such offence that Congress were 
under the necessity either of recalling him or passing the instructions. 
They chose the latter as the least injurious to their national dignity. He 
was satisfied at the time and is still satisfied that it did not lessen our 
security. The Court of France by her treaties with us was bound only 
to maintain our independence absolute and unlimited as well in matters 
of government as commerce. These being secured she had a right to 
judge whether she would continue the war for other objects claimed by 
us, in the same manner as we had to judge whether we would continue 
the war on her account for objects not contained in the treaty. Our 
ministers were not restrained from urging everything they thought proper 
to obtain what we wished or desired. They could contend to the last 
and if obliged to submit they could enter their protest. Could they have 
done more if left quite at liberty? Congress adopted the only thing in 
their power to secure the rights of all the States. They added more mem- 
bers to Mr. Adams and those from different parts of the continent. This 
removed every suspicion or fear that the interest of one part would be 
sacrificed to secure that of another. He then touched upon the jealousy 
which a change in our instructions wd excite, the opinion that would 
be formed of our instability and possibly of our ambition. G. B. had taken 
great pains to impress the Courts in Europe with an opinion that we aim 
at conquest. France had even imbibed some suspicion of that sort and 
therefore her former minister had in a free conference with Congress 
urged the necessity of moderation. He concluded with observing that as 
the confidence placed in France was a mere compliment and not a giving 
up any real security, he should be against withdrawing it and should there- 
for vote for postponing. 

Mr. Rutledge said it was true France was bound to maintain the inde- 
pendence of the States but he wanted to know what were the States. He 



August, 1782 487 

did not enter into the war for himself or for those inhabiting the lands 
on the waters falling into the Atlantic, but for posterity ; for those who 
would hereafter inhabit the country beyond the mountains to the extent 
formerly claimed by the crown of Great Britain as belonging to these 
thirteen States. He would continue the war forever rather than be cir- 
cumscribed in narrower bounds. He should therefore be against post- 
poning. 

The question being put passed in the affirmative. 

Mr. Madison then proix)sed his resolution and was seconded by Mr. 
Witherspoon. 

Mr. Rutledge resumed the debate; he was against the motion as ex- 
plained. It is absolutely to ascertain our boundaries and define our other 
claims. He understood that the minister of France in a conference with 
the Com'tt who brought in the instructions of June 1780 [1781] had 
pressed them to fix the claims of the U. S. They ought to have done it ; 
as they did not then do it it ought to be done now. They had no business 
to suppose we had disputed boundaries. There were other matters that 
might come on the carpet in a negotiation for peace. We had withdrawn 
the instructions and powers formerly given respecting a treaty of com- 
merce with G. B. ; we should say something on that matter. 

He therefore would propose to postpone the present motion and if that 
was carried he would move — 

That a Com'tt be appointed to revise the instructions to the ministers 
plenipotentiary of the U. S. for negotiating and concluding a treaty of 
peace with G. B. and to consider and report if any and what instructions 
should be given to them respecting such treaty and for negotiating a treaty 
of commerce with G. B. The motion for postponing being seconded by 
Mr. Dyer, 

Mr. Witherspoon seemed to admit that the minister had desired the 
Com'tt to fix their boundaries ; that it could not be done so as to make it 
an ultimatum to the satisfaction of all the States. He observed that the 
happiness of the people on this side of the Alleghany Mountains was a 
sufficient object to induce them to enter into the war; that some of the 
States had their boundaries fixed and determined ; that the State he had 
the honor to represent was one of them ; that it had not entered into the 
war nor would it he believed be willing to continue it for the sake of 
boundless claims of wild uncultivated country ; more especially as it was 
a matter of dispute and will undoubtedly occasion much contention among 
the States to whom that country if ceded will of right belong that what 
relates to a treaty of commerce will come within the objects of the present 
motion; he is therefore against postponing it. 

Mr. Jackson wished to have an exposition of our rights made out and 
laid before the King of France, and that he should be informed nothing 
less will satisfy the people of this Country. 

Mr. Telfair. For his part he thinks it no matter who gives up our 
rights if they must be given up, whether the King of France or our 
ministers ; he is for fixing our boundaries to the Mississippi. As to our 
claims beyond that to the South Sea he would leave them to discretion. 
Something more was said but rather in the way of conversation. 



438 Continental Congress 

The question for postix)ning being put passed in the negative. On the 
question for agreeing to Mr. Madison's motion, the yeas and nays being 
required by Mr. Telfair — . . . /' 

The Com'tt was appointed consisting of Mr. Madison, Mr. Rutledge, 
Mr. Witherspoon, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Duane. 

Friday, Augst. p. 

This day a letter was reed, from Genl. Washington enclosing a copy 
of a letter to him from Guy Carleton and R. Digby dated New York, 
August 2, and in which they acquaint him " that negotiations for a general 
peace have already commenced at Paris and that Mr. Grenville is invested 
with full powers to treat with all the parties at war and is now at Paris 
in the execution of his commission ", that the ministers of G. B. are 
commanded " to direct Mr. Grenville that the independency of the thirteen 
provinces should be proposed by him in the first instance instead of making 
it a condition of a general treaty, however not without the highest confi- 
dence that the loyalists shall be restored to their possessions or a full 
compensation made them for what ever confiscations may have taken 
place," that Mr. Laurens has been enlarged and discharged from all en- 
gagements without any condition whatever, after which he declared of 
his own accord that he considered Lord Cornwallis as freed from the 
parole. " Upon this point they desire his excellency's sentiments or those 
of Congress." That transports have been prepared in England for con- 
veying all the American prisoners to this Country to be exchanged here, 
" that they are directed to urge the most speedy exchange." They con- 
clude with renewing the proposition that all exchanges of men of the 
same description being exchanged sailor and soldier be exchanged man 
for man against each other, with this condition annexed, that our sailors 
shall be at liberty to serve the moment they are exchanged and that the 
soldiers so received by them shall not serve in or against the thirteen 
provinces for one year. Advice being received at the same time that this 
letter as soon as written was communicated to the inhabitants of N. York 
and printed in hand bills and Congress having received no advices from 
their ministers abroad of what was passing in Europe, it was judged 
proper to refer the letter to a Com'tt that they might consider and report 
what was proper to be done. The Com'tt Mr. Lee, Mr. Witherspoon 
and Mr. Rutledge.^ 

The remainder of the day was spent in reading the proceedings of a 
general Court Martial on the trial of Major Genl. McDougal.^ 

5 The yeas and nays, being recorded in the Journals, are here omitted. With 
regard to these proceedings cj. the Journals, Aug. 8, and nos. 572. 579, ante, 593, 597, post. 

8 These proceedings are not recorded in the Joitrnals. The reading of Washing- 
ton's letter and the appointment of the committee are however mentioned in an editorial 
foot-note (p. 460 n.). A letter from John Taylor Gilman to President Weare, dated Aug. 8, 
says, " By Letters from his Excellency Genl. Washington receiv'd yesterday, are in- 
formed ", etc. (Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 85). Oilman's letter is probably erroneously 
dated. See also Madison to Randolph Aug. 9 (Writings. I. 223), the letter of the \^irginia 
delegates Aug. 9 (Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 263), and that of the Connecticut delegates 
Aug. 10 (passage omitted from no. 586, post). The letter of Carleton and Digby. Aug. 2, 
is in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 540. The committee's report is in the 
Journals, Aug. 12. See nos. 556, 566, ante, 588, 590, post. 

7 The court-martial of McDougall is not mentioned in the Journals Aug. 9. See 
however the Journals, Aug. 15. 



August, 1782 439 

586. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, August loth, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have passed a resolution reducing the army, a copy of 
which is inclosed. The agents for Pensylvania and Connecticut have agreed 
on the judges to determine the controversy between the two States : they 
are as follows {vis) Genl. Whiple of New Hamshire, Genl. Green of 
Rhod Island, Cheif Justice Brearly and Mr. Huston of the Jersies, Mr. 
Griffin and Mr. Jones of Virginia, and Govr. Rutlidge of South Carolina, 
any five to be a quorum." The appointment of officers in the army from 
Connecticut was objected to, because some of them were said to be ap- 
pointed in room of others who had retired, which wants explanation ; but 
since the late regulation we doubt whether any new appointments will 
take place. 

The memorial of the deranged officers in the Connecticut line for their 
half pay is postponed to the first Wednesday of Jany. next; ^ every de- 
partment is exceedingly distressed for want of money. The necessity of 
vigorous exertions by the State is every day more and more evident 



587. David Howell to William Ellery.^ 

Philadelphia 10 Aug. 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Notwithstanding my endeavours to qualify myself with the 
notices requisite both as to form and substance, to enable me to fill, with 
propriety, my present place, I find myself very deficient. It is not an easy 
thing for a new member to take up the business of Congress and proceed 
in it with consistancy and propriety 

I am informed that the Resolve concerning the German Prisoners is 
carrying into effect. The Ordinance for establishing a Supreme Court of 
Appeals in maritime causes has not had a 3d reading: nor is the vacant 
Seat in the Court filled as yet : my friendship to Mr. Marchant will lead 
me to serve him with pleasure as far as it shall be in my power.^ 

Not long since was read in Congress a Letter from Mr. Jay dated at 
Madrid. It contained upwards of 100 pages in Folio: being a journal 
of his proceedings from October 1781 to April 28 1782, including his 
negotiations with the Ministers at that Court — His Letters to Dr. Franklin. 

[586] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 375 (signed by Dyer, Root, and 
Benjamin Huntington). 

2 See no. 568, ante, and the Journals, July 19, 25, 1782, Jan. 8, 1783. The resolutions 
for reducing the army were adopted Aug. 7. 

3 See no. 6oi, post. 

[587] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 573. 

2 The vacancy had existed since the death of Titus Hosmer, Aug. 4, 1780. On 
Nov. 17 William Paca resigned, and the two vacancies were filled Dec. 5. See the Journals 
Nov. 21, 22, Dec. 2, 5, 13, and Madison's Notes of Debates Nov. 7, Dec. 5, ibid., XXHI. 844,' 
862 ; cj. no. 456, note 2, ante, and nos. 700, 708, post. 



440 Continental Congress 

answers, etc. etc. On the whole of it might have been written in Capitals 
PROCRASTINATION." Nothing definitive is [to] be expected soon 
in that Quarter. So entirely do they neglect us that Mr. Jay has been 
under the necessity, notwithstanding encouragement from them at sundry 
times of pecuniary assistance, of protesting bills for the pitiful Sum of 
£20,000 Sterlg. But Dr. Franklin found means to satisfy the bills soon 
after through the bounty of our great, good and generous Ally. 

By another Letter of May last, which is short, we are informed that 
Mr. Jay was going to Paris. What if Messieurs Adams and Laurens 
should join him and Dr. Franklin at I'aris and be perhaps at this moment 
settling preliminaries for a general pacification? The British have un- 
doubtedly made some advances. What is doing time will discover, " Timeo 
Danaos et dona ferentes " . The objects of Negotiation are various — To 
divide intrest. To procure Allies, or for jieace. The Britons wish for 
peace, but I fear they are not sufficiently humbld to accept of such terms 
as will be offered them. Should their terms have been concerted and 
approved of by the Empress, or any other northern Power, and be rejected 
by the Powers at war with them, tho' they fail of peace they may get 
allies and carry on this war with renewed vigour. God grant us an honor- 
able peace, or none at all ! 

It gave me great pleasure to find that you breakfasted with our illtistriotis 
General the friday morning after you left Philadelphia not only on ac- 
count of the mutual Satisfaction it must have afforded you both, but as 
it will tend to justify the attempts I made on a late occasion to remove 
an injurious aspersion thrown out against you in this regard. Your con- 
duct Sir, must silence your enemies and put them to confusion ; I am sorry 
to hear that either Judge Mowry should assert, or General Miller believe 
that you ever was concerned in such an infamous intrigue as you mention.* 
As I have no evidence of its existence, but every reason to believe that 
had it existed, you would have detested entring into it, I cannot doubt 
but on a thorough investigation and detection of this affair, in which I 
wish you good speed, your character instead of being injured will receive 
an additional lustre 

No official accounts have been received from the Hague further than 
the News Papers must have informed [you.] The Completion of treaties 
and the arrival of a Dutch Minister [ma]y be momentarily expected. 

588. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[August 12, 1782.] 
Monday, August 12. 

The Com'tt on the letter from Carleton and Digby made a report, where- 
upK)n Congress, in order to obviate an opinion that was prevailing of their 
having received overtures for a peace, directed the letter to be published 
and resolved that they considered the letter as mere matter of informa- 
tion, inexplicit as to the nature and extent of the independence directed 

8 See nos. 572, 578, ante. 
* See no. 627, post. 
[588]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 105. 



August, 1/82 441 

to be proposed. That as they have received no information on this subject 
from their ministers for negotiating a peace, no public measure can or 
ought to be taken upon [it] in its present form. They recommended it 
to the several States not to remit of their exertions for carrying on the 
War with vigor as the only effectual means of securing a safe and hon- 
orable peace. And as the British Commanders had heretofore always 
refused to settle a cartel under pretence that it would be in fact an acknowl- 
edgement of our independency, they resolved to put the British Com- 
mander's sincerity to the test and therefore directed Genl. Washington 
to propose to them the appointment of Commissioners to settle forth-with 
a general cartel for the exchange of prisoners, take care that the liquida- 
tion of accounts and settlement of the balances due for the maintenance 
of prisoners be provided for therein. The Com'tt proposed and reported 
that the General should be directed to empower his Commissioners to 
release Cornwallis from his parole, in return for the indulgence granted 
to Mr. Laurens. But Mr. Rutledge, one of the Com'tt, inveighed against 
this with so much warmth and indignation that it was rejected with a 
loud and general no from every part of the house.^ 

Nothing was said on the proposition for exchanging soldiers for sea- 
men, Congress deeming it inexpedient to touch upon that matter at present 
or to do anything that might serve as a pretext for refusing to settle a 
cartel: and apprehending, if a general cartel was established, provision 
might be made therein for the release of our seamen as well as for prevent- 
ing the capture of unarmed citizens." 



589. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 13th 1782. 
S'r, 

We have been honord with your Excelly's of the ist Augt. 1782. We 
have taken the liberty of conversing with the Secy, at War on that part 
of your letter, concerning the Works at York Town. That Gentn. ex- 
pressed his surprise at the misinformation, you must have receivd of 
his Conduct in the affair, and with a wish to undeceive you has favord 
us with a Copy of the instructions he gave concerning the Works together 
with a letter addressed to us on the Subject, both which, we have the 
honor of enclosing to your ExceH'y." 

2 See the Journals ; also no. 585, ante, and nos. 589, 590, post. The secretary at war, 
Benjamin Lincoln, wrote to Washington Aug. 14: "Since closing my public letter I 
have learned that the committee to whom your Exc'y letter was referred reported in favor 
of the discharge of Lord Cornwallis but it was violently opposed in Congress and among 
others by Governor Rutledge who was one of the Committee." Hist. Soc of Pa., Dreer 
Coll., Generals, L 59. See also no. 658, post. 

s See the committee report, also brought in this day, on Washington's letter of 
July 9 ; see also nos. 556, 566, ante, no. 590, post. 

[589P Va. State Lib., Kxecutive Papers (signed by Madison, Bland, and Lee) ; Cal. Va 
State Papers. III. 258. 

2 See nos. 561, 570, 581, ante. Harrison's letter is in Official Letters, III. 286; 
Lincoln's letter, Aug. 12, addressed to Colonel Bland, is in Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 260. 

32 



442 Continental Congress 

No Material event has taken place Since we had the Honor of writini? 
to your Excell'v by Express, when we informd you of a letter received 
from S'r Guy Carleton and Admiral Digby, directed to Genl. Washing- 
ton,« .... 

Congress has orderd this letter to be publishd with their sense on its 
contents, which we hope to have the pleasure of transmiting to your 
Excell'y in the Paper we shall herewith enclose. 

What may be the Issue of the negotiation for a Peace, which we have 
every reason to believe is now on the Tapis, we will not venture to predict. 
But we cannot help thinking that the Preliminary offer above mentiond, 
however it may be intended by England, will have a favorable effect on 
our affairs, as it seems to remove the Principal Barrier, which has hitherto 
prevented some of the powers of Europe from recognizing us as an 
Independent Nation, vis the Apprehension of giving Umbrage to England, 
by such an Interference, where by they wd have departed from their 
Neutral and Mediatorial Characters we doubt not of your Excel- 
lency's having receivd satisfactory accounts of the Evacuation of Savannah 
of which Congress receivd yesterday Authentic information.* 

P. S. Since writing the above find that the Publication therein men- 
tion [ed] , is not yet in the Paper but shall endeavor to procure a Copy of it."^ 

590. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Aug: 13th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I transmitted to you a few days ago by express the contents 
of a letter from Genl. Carlton and Admiral Digby to Genl. Washington, 
announcing the purpose of the British Court to acknowledge the inde- 
pendence of the 13 Provinces.- .... 

The motion for revoking the [power given to France has been made 
again and pushed with the] expected [earnestness] but was [parried and 
will] issue, I [believe in] an [adoption of your report] with a representa- 
tion thereupon to the [Court of France.] ^ 

The Controversy between Connecticut and Pennsylvania is in a promis- 
ing train for adjudication ; the agents hav'g agreed on the commissioners 
to whom it is to be submitted. 

3 See nos. 585, 588, ante. 

* Principally through a letter from General Greene, received Aug. 12. See the 
Journals (p. 464 n.) ; cf. no. 581, ante. 

^ Aug. 14 James Duane transmitted to Governor Clinton " the interesting Intel- 
ligence in the publick papers lest you should loose a moment of the pleasure which ought 
to be diffused on the prospects opening to our View ", and remarked : " The true point 
in which they are to be considered, is contained in the Act of Congress on the Letter from 
Sir Guy Carleton and Adm'l Digby, as we have no Intelligence from our Commissioners. 
It is daily expected and I shall not fail to transmit what may be in my power and without 
delay." Clinton Papers, VIII. 30. 

[590]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 223; Papers, I. 158. 

2 Letter of Aug. 9 {Writings, I. 223). See no. 585, note 5, ante. 

2 See no. 578, ayite, and no. 599. post. Bracketed words were written in the official 
cipher. 



August, 1782 443 

Among other means of revenue the back lands have on several late 
occasions been referred to, and at length recommended by a Grand Com- 
mittee to the Consideration of Congress. A motion for assigning a day 
to take up the report, was [negatived by a small majority.] The report 
has been [repeated] by the [committee] but a second experiment has not 
been [made in Congress.] Several of the Middle [states seem to be facing 
about. Maryland] however preserves its wonted [jealousy and obstinacy.] * 



591. John Rutledge to Horatio Gates.^ 
Dear General. [Philadelphia, August 14, 1782.] 

The resolution of Congress directing that an enquiry should be made 
into your conduct in the campaign of 1780, has this day been repealed 
by a vote of every state present (ten).^ The evidence before the com- 
mittee which gave such unanimity to the vote, came from men the most 
honorable and the most capable of judging. Gen. I. Huger, Gen. Stevens, 
Major T. Pinckney, and Col. Marion, etc.^ .... 

592. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

^. Philada. i5thAugst. 1782. 

In my Letter of the 8th Instt. I Mentioned that S'r Guy Carleton had 
Informed Genl. Washington that Adm'l Digby with himself were Ap- 
pointed Commiss'rs for making peace, and that the Commission was re- 
ceiv'd by a late Packett. It now Appears that, that Letter was Misunder- 
stood, it was from this Expression that they had received Information 
as Commiss'rs for making peace etc.^ .... our Prisoners are released 
from the Goals in England and Some of them have Arrived here, but 
have nothing Official from Europe respecting this matter.^ The Con- 
versation of the Day is a General Peace, but I fear the Enemy Intend a 
Separate One, first with Holland and then with America, but they will 
be much disappointed if they Expect a Seperate peace with America. 
Hope a few Days will give further Information in this business. 

The Enemy have Evacuated Savannah by which our Friends in that 
Quarter are much relieved. 

Congress have passed Resolutions for Reducing the number of Officers 
in our Army. Suppose they are Transmitted you by the Secretary at War. 

* See no. 569, note 3, ante, nos. 593, 597, 606, post. 
[591]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, II. 405 (copy). 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 14. In the omitted portion of this letter Rutledge sum- 
marizes the evidence. 

3Brig.-Gen. Isaac Huger, Maj.-Gen. Edward Stevens (Virginia militia), Maj. 
Thomas Pinckney (aide-de-camp to General Gates), and Col. (brigadier-general of 
South Carolina militia) Francis Marion. The inquiry had been ordered Oct. 5, 1780. See 
Gates to Washington Aug. 17, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), III. 528. 
[592]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 87. 

- See nos. 585, 589, 590, ante. Gilman transmitted with his letter the newspaper 
containing the letter of Carleton and Digby, etc. 

3 Cf. nos. 596, 604, post. 



444 Continental Congress 

593. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.* 

[August 15, 16, 1782.] 
Thursday, August 15th. 

The Com'tt appointed on the 8th to take into consideration and report 
the most advisable means of securing to the United States the several 
objects claimed by them, and not included in their ultimatum for peace of 
15 June, 1 78 1, reported as their opinion:"'' .... 

Mr. Bland objected to the first part, he wanted to see what the Com- 
mittee had prepared before he gave a vote for referring it to the Secretary 
for Foreign Affairs. 

Mr. Jones had no objection against the papers going into the hands 
of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but he should be ordered to rep>ort 
thereon, and not to transmit anything to the Ministers, for negotiating 
a peace until it had received the approbation of Congress. 

Mr. Madison said it was the design of the Com'tt that Congress should 
give no opinion or judgment in the matter. That the papers should go 
to our Ministers merely as information, not as instructions; that this 
would not be the case if Congress decided thereon, or even if the Secretary 
for Foreign Affairs laid before Congress what he proposed to transmit. 
For by the instruction of the office for foreign affairs papers going in 
that way from the Sec'ry for Foreign Affairs to our Ministers abroad 
were to be considered as acts of Congress and binding on the ministers, 
whereas the letters and papers from him to them which were not sub- 
mitted to the view or consideration of Congress were only to be regarded 
as mere private opinion and information, by which the conduct of the 
Ministers would be influenced no farther than their judgment directed. 

August i6th.^ 

Mr. Montgomery, one of the Committee to whom was referred a report 
of a Com'tt on instructions to the Delegates of Massachusetts respecting 
the fisheries, informed the house that Mr. Randolph, who had been the 
Chairman of the Com'tt, had collected a number of facts and observa- 
tions in support of the several Claims of the United States, not included 
in their ultimatum of the 15th June, 1781, that he had submitted them 
to the consideration of Mr. Carroll another member of the Committee; 
that Mr. Carroll had made sundry remarks and observations; that upon 
leaving Congress he had left Mr. Randolph's state of facts and observa- 
tions with him the only remaining member and had requested him not 
to lay them before Congress until he returned and had an opportunity of 
finishing his remarks and stating his objections ; that this was the reason 
why the Committee had delayed to report, but as the Committee which 
reported yesterday seemed to refer to Mr. Randolph's " facts and obser- 
vations," and sundry members had expressed a desire to see them, he 

[593]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 106. 

'^ The committee's report, which follows here, is in the Journals, Aug. 15 ; cf. 
nos. 572, 579, 585, ante, the entry under Aug. 16, below, and no. 597, post. 

8 The Journals contain no record of proceedings Aug. 16 (see however ibid. 
p. 481). 



August, 1/82 445 

had therefore laid them on the table with a report. The report was read 
in the following words : 

" The Com'tt to whom was referred the report on instructions to the 
Delegates of Massachusetts, report that they have collected facts and 
observations herewith reported to Congress, which they recommend to 
be referred to the Sec'ry for Foreign Affairs to be by him digested, com- 
pleted and transmitted to the Ministers Plenipotentiary for negotiating 
a peace for their information and use." 

The facts and observations reported by the Com'tt were then called for 
and ordered to be read.* .... 

When the Secretary had read to the end of the following clause, 

" Thirdly, that if the vacant lands cannot be demanded upon the pre- 
ceding grounds, that is upon the titles of individual States, they are to be 
deemed to have been the property of his Britannic Majesty immediately 
before the Revolution and to be now devolved upon the United States, 
collectively taken " (see the State of Facts and Observations, book A, 
p. 16, a/nte, p. 116) " he was interrupted by Mr. Bland, who moved, and 
was seconded by Mr. Lee, that the clause be expunged. This brought on 
a long debate, in which many members spoke. The members of those 
.States whose boundaries were fixed and determined supported the clause, 
those members whose States claimed territory to the Mississippi, or whose 
eastern boundary was undefined, opposed it. Mr. Madison observed that 
the clause was imported for the purpose of reconciling all the States 
to the report, that though he was satisfied there was no solid foundation 
in the argument, yet he saw plainly if the clause was struck out sundry 
States would object to the rest of the report and therefore he should be 
for its standing. But he thought it improper that any vote should be taken. 

Mr. Bland insisted on a vote and called for the yeas and nays. Here- 
upon it was observed that the whole debate was out of order; that the 
report was reading for information not for debate ; that the interruption 
and motion were improper and that no question could be taken until the 
whole was read through. To this it was answered that the objection should 
have been made sooner. To put an end to the debate an adjournment was 
called for and agreed to.* 

594. James Duane to Philip Schuyler/ 

Philadelphia i 6th August 1782. 
Dea/r General, 

.... You have been informed of a small provision made for Col. 
Ja. Livingston shortly after my arrival here. It is all I can at present 
procure for him.^ .... 

* The " State of Facts and Observations " is embodied in the Journals under 
Aug. 20. See nos. 597, 599. post. 

<* The reference, "ante, p. 116", is to the text in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Rev. Papers, I. In the text of the " State of Facts and Observations " as printed in the 
Journals, Aug. 20, the passage is found at p. 490. It is essentially repeated at p. 516. 

« See the entry under Aug. 15, above, and no. 597, post. 
[594] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 564. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 7, June 24; cj. ibid., Aug. 7, 10, 1781, Mar. 8, 1785, and 
May 8. 1786. 



446 Continental Congress 

I observe with pleasure the steps taken by our Legislature to aid the 
Finances and strengthen the general Government. They are spirited and 
wise. It was not till this day that they were officially communicated to 
Congress and they were immediately referred to a Grand Committee." 

Alass poor Tryon County! What uncommon Scenes of Calamity has 
she sustained: and what Evils may she not yet apprehend! believe me, 
Sir, I am distressed for her beyond Expression. Is it impossible to protect 
the scatterd Remains of this once flourish'g district? I once hoped it was 
not. Congress on the first Intimation chearfully supplied the new Levies 
with Cloathing and every thing promised by the original Stipulation; so 
that they are in all respects on an equal Footing with the Continental 
Battalions. They have also called for an Estimate of what will be neces- 
sary for the Oneidas and being resolvd to reward their Fidelity and 
encourage their Zeal and Exertions against the common Enemy. If any 
thing further can be done it ought not to be neglected. To support our 
Fellow Citizens in that exposd Frontier is a first Duty.* .... 

595. The South Carolina Delegates to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia August 17th 1782. 
Sir, 

We have received a Letter from Governor Mathews informing us, 
that Genl. Greene had Orders from your Excellency, in Case Charlestown 
should be evacuated, to put the Troops under his Command in Motion 
and join the main Army, and that the Council of South Carolina were 
unanimously of Opinion, with the Governor, that the withdrawing those 
Troops would be attended with great Danger to the State — therefore 
enjoining us, in the most positive Manner, to use our utmost Exertions, 
with Congress, and your Excellency, to obtain a Countermand of the 
Orders. 

We think it proper to make the Application immediately to you, instead 
of moving the Matter in Congress, as the Measure proceeded wholly from 
your Excellency, and We are satisfied that your Attention extends, equally, 
to each of the united States. 

The particular Condition of Carolina is so fully described in Governor 
Mathews's Letter, that We think it sufficient to transmit to your Excel- 
lency, (and therefore inclose) an Extract of such part of it, as relates to 

3 There is no record of proceedings Aug. i6 in the Journals, but it is noted 
(p. 470 n.) that a letter from the governor of New York, dated Aug. 4 and transmitting 
resolutions of the New York legislature of July 21 and 22, " on the present situation of 
affairs, for augmenting the powers of Congress ", was read in Congress Aug. 15 and 
referred to a grand committee ; that the grand committee was discharged Apr. 28, 1783, and 
the business referred to a committee of five. Concerning these resolutions, which advocated 
the calling of a federal convention to deal with the question of enlarging the powers of 
the Confederation, see Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 37-39. Cf. nos. 615, 618, 
post. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 20, and no. 598, post. It would appear that this part of 
the letter was written not earlier than Aug. 20. 

[595]^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers (in the writing of John Rutledge and 
signed by Rutledge, Izard, Ramsay, Middleton, and Gervais). 



August, 1/82 44i:7 

this Subject, with one Remark, that the Militia are in general unarmed, 
and the State is unprovided with Artillery or Ammunition. 

We are persuaded that the Governor's Reasons will induce your Excel- 
lency, either to revoke the orders sent to Genl. Greene, or to give him 
discretionary power to keep, or leave, such a Number of Troops, in that 
Country, as, in his Opinion may be requisite. 

We request to be favoured with an Answer as soon as convenient, that 
We may communicate to Governor Mathews, by an opportunity which 
will quickly offer, the Result of our Sollicitation.^ 

596. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin).^ 

Extract. Philadelphia, 19th August, I783[i782.] 

Sir, 

It is our duty to inform your Excellency that the sending our prison- 
ers to America at this Juncture is not by any means a clear proof of 
benevolence, it may with equal probability be passed to the Acct. of cun- 
ning : for the enemy wish and expect to get regular Soldiers in exchange 
for those people, many of whom are neither Soldiers nor Sailors.^ There 
is certainly a disposition in the present English Ministry to excite among 
the people of America some desire of a Separate peace. And we appre- 
hend that nothing but vigorous and persevering exertions on our part to 
convince the enemy of our ability to continue the leaden argument will 
compel them to make those offers of peace seriously which 'tis probable 
they are now making insidiously. 

597. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates/ 

[August 20, 1782.] 
Tuesday, August 20th. 

The State of Facts and Observations was called for and read through." 

And the report of the Com'tt being amended to read : That the facts 

and observations reported by the Com'tt be referred to the Secretary for 

Foreign Affairs to be by him digested completed and transmitted to the 

2 An extract of the letter from Governor John Mathews, in the writing of Rutledge, 
is in the Washington Papers under the conjectural date July. Washington replied to the 
delegates Sept. 2. On Sept. i he asked the secretary at war to take the sense of Congress 
upon the matter, which that official did Sept. 6 {Journals, p. 553 n.). The committee to 
which the matter was referred reported, Sept. 9, some resolutions drawn by Rutledge, in 
conformity to the wishes of the South Carolinians. Washington wrote to Greene concerning 
the matter Sept. 23 {Writings, ed. Ford, X. 84, ed. Sparks, VIII. 347). The letter to the 
secretary at war is in the same volumes, at pp. y^ and 340, respectively. See further 
no. 612, post, and the Journals, Oct. 11. 

[596]! A^. C. State Recs., XVI. 863 (signed, " Hu. Williamson, Wm. Blount"). 

2 Cf. no. 592, ante, and no. 604, past ; see also the letter of the Virginia delegates 
Aug. [27], Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 283. A letter from the delegates Aug. 18 is in 
N. C. State Recs., XVI. 398. 

[597]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 142. 

2 See no. 593, ante, nos. 599, 603, post, and the Journals, Aug. 20 ; cf. the Journals, 
Sept. 5, 6, 25, and nos. 611, 641, 658, 668, 675, post. 



448 Continental Congress 

ministers plenipotentiary for negotiating a j>eace for their information 
and use. Motion was made by Mr. Lee, seconded by Mr. Bland, to amend 
it further by inserting, after the word committee, " except the following 
passage " 3 That if the vacant lands as before recited and except the follow- 
ing passage vis. " But if the vacant lands etc." to " the common labours of 
the United States" inclusive (see Facts and Observations).^ 

Mr. Lee supp>orted the motion by observing, that the sup[Kjsition was 
groundless and the reasoning upon it fallacious ; that the claim to the 
western territory rested solely on the titles of individual states. That 
Congress had no authority but what it derived from the States. The States 
individually were sovereign and independent, and uix)n them alone de- 
volved the rights of the Crown within their respective territories. Could 
the sovereignty of the Crown of G. B. devolve on the V. S. in Congress 
assembled, before such an assembly existed? What authority is there for 
that supposition; where is the sovereignty of the United States derived? 
Is it in the Confederation? Is it in the Treaty of Alliance? Does it really 
exist? Shall we put an argument in the mouths of our Ministers which 
they may use to their own advantage. It is well known that one of our 
Ministers is interested in the decision, having a Claim to some of the 
lands in question. That one of the Ministers of our Ally is likewise 
interested. If our Claim is supported solely on the titles of the States, 
they will be cut off from their intentions; if on the supposition that the 
rights of the Crown devolve on the United States collectively taken, their 
plea will be strengthened. 

Mr. Witherspoon wished to have a question and the opinion of Con- 
gress without any further debate. The reasoning in the facts and obser- 
vations went to this, that the Ministers in supporting our Claims to the 
Western territory, should first urge the titles of the several States. But 
if they failed in this they were then to urge the argument in the Clauses 
now excepted against. Whereas the spirit of the amendments was that 
if our Claims could not be supported on the former ground they were to 
be relinquished and given up. 

Mr. Lee replied that the amendment was to take away an argument 
which our Ministers might use to their own advantage, an argument which 
was groundless and fallacious ; he called upon any gentleman to shew what 
foundation there was for it. None had attempted this. The reason was 
because it was not in their power. The Ministers ought to rely on solid 
argument This was to be found only in the titles of the States. If they 
were confined to these they would urge them with force, and he had no 
doubt they would prevail. 

Mr. Witherspoon said if there was any doubt that our Ministers would 
be unfaithful, let them be changed. If Mr. Franklin, whom the gentleman 
alluded to, was interested, let him move for his recal, he would second 
him. The facts and observations, as they now stood, required that the 

3 The passages in the " State of Facts and Observations " here referred to are 
found on pp. 490 and 516 of the Journals. The insertion proposed by Lee and Bland may 
perhaps be clarified if stated as follows: " except the following passage [vis.] '3 That if 
the vacant lands' (as before recited), and except the following passage [viz.] 'But if the 
vacant lands ', etc. to ' the common labours of the United States ' inclusive." See also 
no. 593, ante. 



August, 1782 449 

Ministers should in the first place urge the titles of the several States : 
if these prevailed the end was obtained, and the argument in question 
would not be brought forward. But if arguments drawn from old Char- 
ters. Charters granted at a time when the extent and limits of this country 
were without Charters and Titles interfering one with another whose 
limits were so extravagant that it was thought proper to curtail them in 
a former treaty, if arguments from this source should be found to have 
no weight with the mediating powers and other powers in Europe, and 
this he believed would be the case, would any Gentleman wish to preclude 
our ministers from using an argument which would have weight, an argu- 
ment drawn from general security, the force of which had been admitted 
in former treaties, and would be admitted by every disinterested power 
of Europe. The several States were known to the powers of Europe 
only as one nation under the stile and title of the United States. This 
nation was known to be settled along the Coasts to a certain extent ; if any 
European power was admitted to establish colonies or settlements behind 
them, what security could they have for the enjoyment of peace? What 
a source of future wars ! Was not this the principal argument urged by 
G. B. against France at the breaking out of the last war? Whether the 
uncultivated wilderness on the frontiers should belong to one state or 
another was a matter of little concern to the European powers. The only 
argument that would weigh with them was whether it was necessary for 
the security of the United States that other nations should be excluded 
from that country, and particularly G. B., the enemy of these States. He 
should therefore be against the amendment. 

Sundry other gentlemen spoke and the amendment being insisted on 
and notice given by Mr. Bland that he meant to call the yeas and nays, 
which would bring the whole of the facts and observations upon the 
journals, by which means Congress would be under the necessity either 
of resisting the whole or of amending and making them an act of Con- 
gress, so that they would go as instructions and not merely as information, 
which was the thing intended; a motion was therefore made that the 
report be committed. And the motion for commitment being seconded, 
and having by the rules of the house a preference, was put and carried 
in the affirmative. 

The Com'tt chosen were Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Duane, Mr. Witherspoon. 
Mr. Howell and Mr. [Montgomery].* 

598. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 20th August 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellency's dispatches of the 5th Instant I had the honour to 
receive three days since ; and have once more an occasion to express my 

*The personnel of the committee is recorded in the Committee Book. See the 
Journals, p. 534 "-. also pp. 471, 523-524. No record has been found of a report made by 
this committee. Cj. Madison's Notes of Debates, Dec. 30, in the Journals, XXIII 872 
[S9^V Clinton Papers, Will. 3Z- 



460 Continental Congress 

grateful sense of your kind attention to my personal Concerns. I can 
only lament that the Sum I am in advance for my support here, incon- 
siderable as it is in itself, is so necessary for the Accommodation of my 
Family, that the delay of a reimbursement leaves me in a situation little 
short of actual distress 

Col. Hamilton's Talents qualify him eminently for a seat in Congress, 
and his Appointment is a strong proof of the discernment of the Legisla- 
ture. I am doubly pleased with it, as it may facilitate the Accomplish- 
ment of my wishes to be once more united to my Family after a separation 
of more than seven years. 

The Measures taken by our Legislature to aid the Finances, and 
strengthen the system of Continental Government, will do them the most 
permanent Honour. The Act, on the last Subject, is under the considera- 
tion of a grand Committee; and the dispatches for the States transmitted 
thro' their Delegates. 

I hope, with your Excellency, for substantial benefits from Mr. Mont's 
(Montgomerie) present Sentiments, whenever Congress shall be prevailed 
on to resume the Vermont business : ^ but the critical state of our publick 
afairs strongly opposes the Determination we have a right to expect. It 
seems to be a general wish, that a decision should be suspended until we 
can form a Judgement of the Views of the present British ministry which 
are involved in no small obscurity. The first Intelligence from our own 
ministers will unravel them. The Act which the Vermont (people) have 
presumed to pass, must injure them in the opinion of their best Friends 
in Congress; tho' I fear it may fall with a heavy weight on the Towns 
which retain their Attachment to our State. 

I feel most sensibly for our fellow Citizens in Tryon County. While 
the Enemy remain posted in Force at Oswego, we have nothing to expect 
short of total Desolation of the scattered remains of that once flourishing 
district. I do not trust myself with Reflections on this Subject which 
may be ill founded. I hope to enclose with these dispatches, an Act of 
Congress to give our new Corps the full benefit of the former Resolution 
in their favour. A report is made on the principles I wished and steps 
recommended for the more comfortable support of our faithful Indians.' 

We daily expect Mr. L'hommedieu, when Mr. Scott will proceed home- 
ward, his subsistence money being already expended. He will give your 
Excellency every Information in which I may be deficient. For the news 
of the day be pleased to be referred to Mr. Livingston 

2 See nos. 576, 578, ante, 614, 628, post. 

8 Aug. 21 Duane wrote to Clinton : " I have now the pleasure to transmit the Act 
of Congress in favour of our new Levies and the Oneidas which this moment receivd the 
Sanction of Congress. The Destitute Condition of the Southern Army in the Article of 
Cloathing was an Obstacle which we happily surmounted" (N. Y. State Lib., Clinton 
Papers, no. 4725 A). The act is in the Journals, Aug. 20. See also ibid., Sept. 24, and 
no. 594, ante. 



August, 1/82 451 

599. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Phila'e Aug: 20th, 1782. 
My dear Frietid, 

In my last I informed you that the [motion to rescind the controul 
given to France over the American ministers had been parried and] would 
probably [end in an adoption of your report.] ^ It was [parried by a 
substitute so expressed as to give a] committee sufficient [latitude in re- 
porting without implying] on the part of [Congress a design to alter past 
instructions.] The composition of [the committee appointed according 
well with the object of the substitute, a report was made that the exposi- 

l599]^L>l>rary of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 226 (extract); 
Papers, I, 160 (extract). 

2 See nos. 578, 590, ante. The statement of " Facts and Observations " reported by 
a committee Aug. 20 and recorded at length in the Journals was drawn up by Randolph 
before his departure in March (see no. 484, ante). The report itself mentions some pro- 
ceedings on the subject not otherwise recorded in the Journals. These proceedings origi- 
nated in the presentation to Congress, Nov. 17, 1781, of an act (Oct. 27, 1781) of the legis- 
lature of Massachusetts relative to the question of the fisheries, which was referred to a 
committee consisting of Lovell, Carroll, and Madison. The Journals contain no record of 
the proceedings Nov. 17, but an endorsement of the reference is found on the Massachusetts 
document (see the Journals, p. ii22n.), and the date is also given in the report of "facts 
and observations". On Dec. 12 the committee made a report, which was recommitted. 
A report from this committee, stated to have been made Jan. 8, 1782, is embodied in the 
statement of " Facts and Observations ". Again the Journals make no mention of this re- 
port, but do record (Jan. 8, 1782) an unsuccessful motion made by William Ellery, seconded 
by Richard Law, " That it is now expedient that Congress should enlarge their ultimata 
for concluding a treaty of peace ". According to the report of Aug. 20 the report offered 
Jan. 8 was on Jan. 22 referred to a new committee, consisting of Carroll, Randolph, and 
Montgomery. The Journals record, under Jan. 22, some resolutions relative both to the 
fisheries and to the question of boundaries, but do not mention the appointment of this 
new committee. It was this committee that, on Aug. 16, reported the facts and observations 
which it had collected. The proceedings of that day are not found in the Journals, but 
are set forth in Thomson's notes of that date (no. 593, ante). Moreover, the Committee 
Book records that on Aug. 5 Duane, Williamson, Osgood, and Madison were " added to 
Mr. Montgomery" on the committee, "vice Carroll and Randolph" (Carroll and Ran- 
dolph were both absent ; the latter having left Congress in March ) . Madison mentions in 
his letter of Aug. 5 (no. 578, ante) that the committee "was yesterday [augmented to five 
and filled up] ". According to the Committee Book the report of " Facts and Observations " 
was on Aug. 20 recommitted to Rutledge, Duane, Witherspoon, Howell, and Montgomery. 

Meanwhile there had been other proceedings touching the instructions to the peace com- 
missioners on the subject of boundaries. On June 17 there was an unsuccessful motion by 
Witherspoon, seconded by Madison, for the appointment of a committee to prepare instruc- 
tions to the ministers plenipotentiary for negotiating peace, " the better to enable them to 
support the several claims of the United States not included in their ultimatum ". Then, 
on July 24, Arthur Lee made a motion for a reconsideration of the commissions and instruc- 
tions of June 15, 1781 (see nos. 562, 563, 565, 571, ante). On Aug. 2 there was a motion by 
John Rutledge for the appointment of a committee to report a revision of the instructions 
to Jay ; and such a revision was reported Aug. 6 by a committee differing from that ap- 
pointed Aug. 5 on the Massachusetts matter only in the substitution of Rutledge (who was 
chairman) in place of Williamson. On the same day with Rutledge's motion (Aug. 2) 
Lowell of Massachusetts offered a motion, apparently meant to extend to the whole of the 
instructions for negotiating peace, and on Aug. 5 there was a motion by Bland, seconded 
by Jackson of Massachusetts, for a reconsideration of the instructions. A similar motion 
was made Aug. 8 by Jesse Root, seconded by Arthur Lee, but this motion gave place to a 
new motion by Madison, seconded by Witherspoon, essentially the same in character as that 
which they had offered June 17. Madison's motion prevailed, and a committee, consisting of 
Madison, Duane, Rutledge, Jackson, and Witherspoon, was appointed for the purpose. 
This committee brought in a report Aug. 15, the outcome of which was that the matter 
was turned over to the committee on the Massachusetts act. The latter committee, as 
already stated, brought in its report Aug. 16. The proceedings from Aug. 2 to 20 are 
recorded somewhat at large in Thomson's Notes. 



452 Continental Congress 

tory report] should be [referred to the secretary] for [foreign affairs] 
to be [by him revised and transmitted to the ministers in Euro|x; and that 
the latter] should [communicate so much thereof as they] might [judge 
fit to his M. C. M. representing to him, etc.] 

[In this train the business was going on smoothly] each of the [opposite 
parties seeming to concur] from a [fear of something more distant] from 
[their wishes, when] ^ 

Mr. L 1. [The reading of] the [arginnent in favor] of [boundary 

drawn] from the [federal source] present [ed to Bland] a [snake in the 
grass.] This [jealousy was sup] port [ed by Lee by] suggestions [which 
pointed to Franklin.] The [arguments used by] these [gentlemen] raised 
[up the advocates] for the [federal pretensions] and the [merits of this 
question] were [altercated] with a [warmth which ended] in [an ad- 
journment.] Nothing could have been more [fatal to the rejxDrt than] 
to [connect this dispute] with it in the [mind of Congress] and I have 
no longer any [hope of its success] I rather [surmise that a new struggle] 
will [ensue] a [gainst the obi]no[xio]us [clause.] 

I am at a loss to account for the impenetrability of the cypher in my 
late letters, of which your favor of the 6th instant complains.* .... 

The stigma on " some of the U. S." contained in the preamble of the 
ordinance agst. collusive captures is a typographical erratum. It s'd have 
run " some of the citizens etc." ° 

I differ from Mr. L. ^ in opinion that the Cession of Va. will be ac- 
cepted. The repugnance to it seems indeed to have in some degree sub- 
sided, owing perhaps to a change of Members in Congress, and a cooler 
view of the subject, but in its present form I cannot think it will at this 
time obtain a sufficient number of votes. 

Upon what authority was the condemnation of the flag vessel included 
in the decree agst. the contraband merchandise ? ^ 

2 Up to this point Madison had used the official cipher, but changes to the 

Lovell cipher, as indicated by " Mr. L 1 " at the beginning of the next paragraph. The 

text is however continuous, the word " when " to be read with the passage which follows. 

* Randolph wrote to Madison Aug. 6 : " Three clauses in your late favors are im- 
penetrably locked up from me. I can discover, however, that you have fallen into the just 
key-word, as I am able to make out by this supposition the name of a certain gentleman, 
who probably has been zealous in the late business of finance. But farther than this I cannot 
go, and must therefore beg you to explain the mode, in which you have managed the 
cypher." Library of Congress, Ac. io8i : Letters of Edmund Randolph. 

Randolph had succeeded in reading " Doctor Lee" in the letter of July i6 and had made 
one or two other efforts to solve the cipher passages but had failed. It would appear there- 
fore that the passages written in the " Lovell " cipher were never read by him. Madison 
explains in this letter of Aug. 20 the mode in which he had employed the cipher, but, as he 
himself acknowledged in his letter of July 16, the cipher was " extremely tedious and liable 
to errors ". He made numerous errors, and the consequence of a single error in using 
this type of cipher is that the reader is inevitably led astray until the error is corrected. 
For an explanation of this cipher see no. 555, note 2, ante. 

° Randolph had written (Aug. 6) : " In the paper of Nicolson and Prentis of 
Aug. 3 you will find a curious preamble to your ordinance against collusive captures. 
' Some of the united States ' are charged with carrying on the illicit trade. Can this be 
correct?" The reference is to the ordinance of July 17; but the word used is "in- 
habitants ", not " citizens ". The paper referred to by Randolph was the Virginia Gasette 
and Weekly Advertiser, published at Richmond. 

* Arthur Lee. 

7 In his reply, Aug. 30, Randolph says : " Her passport was considered as in- 
volving a condition, not to transgress the limits assigned her, nor to counteract the laws of 



August, 1782 453 

I am not able to add a syllable to what I have heretofore written on 
the subject of Pacific negociations. The silence of our Ministers in Europe 
is amazing, unless a miscarriage of their despatches be the cause of our 
not hearing from them. The Minister of France is in the same suspense 
as Congress. We have not yet reed, even a line from Mr. Adams notifying 
the resolution of the States Genl. in his favor, an event which we cannot 
suppose he would be backward to communicate. I inclose you from the 
Freeman's Journal of the 7th inst. a very curious letter from that Gentl'n 
to his friend Mr. Searle which was taken with the Vessel from which 
the latter escaped in the Bay of Delaware and published in N. Y.* .... 

600. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Vugst. 2 1st 1782. 
Sir, 

The Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 6th Instt. I received 
by Post the 19th (with the Inclosures). Permit me to assure you Sir that 
I have a gratefuU Sense of these favours. 

we are now in the same State of Uncertainty resj^ecting affairs in 
Europe, as when I wrote you last, which was by Mr. Storer the 15th 
Instt. have no Intelligence from our Commissioners there, for several 
Months past, are in Anxious Expectation of what may be the issue of 
the present Situation of Political affairs. ■ .... I shall be out of Money 
in a few Days. I do not know that I could sell a Bill if I was to Draw 
one on the State, and am very unwilling to make the Experiment as 1 
think it would be Injurious to the state, suppose, as hard Money is scarce 
in New Hampshire, that Bank Bills might be more Easily obtained there 
than Money. I should be glad to have some Bills sent me as soon as possible 
after you receive this, as I Shall probably be out of Money before your 
Letters will reach me. I Shall not Attempt to draw any Bills on the State 
untill 1 hear from you, If I can ix>ssibly avoid it."* 1 Inclose you a paper 
of this day. 



the U. S. by the dififusion of British manufactures." In a letter of July 18 he had written: 
" The ship was indeed acquitted upon the principles of law. But I fear, that the chasm in 
the testimony, by which her acquittal was effected, did luA proceed from her innocence, so 
much as from the non-attendance of a witness." Library of Congress, Ac. 1081. See also 
Randolph's letter to Bland July 19, in Bland Papers, II. 85. 

* Adams's letter to James Searle, printed in Freeman's Journal of Aug. 7 (taken 
from the Royal Gazette of July 10), is dated Dec. 26, 1781. What Madison found to be 
" curious " was probably a paragraph in which he remarks, " The secretaryship for the 
mission to Versailles, I am convinced will never be filled up while the present minister 
lives ", with further comment on that office and the mission. 
l6oo]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 88. 

2Gilman wrote to Josiah Bartlett the same day: "While a variety of Reports 
Respecting matters of great Importance are Circulating we are Intirely destitute of 
authentic Information, the last accounts from any of our Commiss'rs in Europe was of the 
28th April" (Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, II.). Gilman was slightly in 
error. Jay's letter of May 14 had been received Aug. 5 or 6. See no. 578, ante, 

3 Writing to Weare again Aug. 28 Gilman said, "I am now almost 'Destitute of 
Money ". Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 89. 



454 Continental Congress 

6oi. David Howell to Welcome Arnold.^ 

Philadelphia 23 Aug. 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I will suppose you have either never received, or had no leisure to answer 
my two former Letters and on this footing undertake to write you a third. ^ 

You will no doubt be anxious to hear something about peace. It is the 
general wish, and I may add that of Congress too, while at the same 
time a manly firmness in persevering in our just claims and in our military 
operations so necessary to vindicate them will mark their character in this 
as well as in all former stages of the contest. 

Nothing has yet transpired officially about the negotiation on foot. 
Private Letter from Paris June 28 mentions that Plenipotentiarys from 
the belligerent powers were in close consultation at Paris and it was 
expected that a general pacification would take place. I need not assure 
you of my disposition for peace on good terms. 

A reduction of the Salaries of our foreign Ministers is in Contemplation 
and has been agitated in Congress this day. They have at present the 
enormous Sum of £2500 Sterling per Annum. 

You will soon be informed of your appointment as one of the Seven 
judges to determine the long subsisting controversy betwixt Connecticut 
and Pennsylvania respecting the Lands on the Susquehanna : The Court 
are Mr. Whipple of N. H. Mr. Welcome Arnold of R. L and P. P."* 
Messieurs Brearley and Houston of N. Jersey, Messieurs Jones and Griffin 
of Virginia and a Mr. Nelson. All the judges were appointed by the 
mutual choice and agreement of the parties by their Commissioners. I 
hope you will not decline serving, as you will thereby not only disoblige 
the parties who have chosen you but your Friends who undertook to 
recommend you. It is a very high trust. It will at least make you known 
in the World. The allowance will be ten dols. per day in full.* 

At the moment of my writing this letter you are as I suppose at So. 
Kingston deliberating about 5 per Cent. I hope you will not adopt it. You 
will thereby raise money for some States who will not raise any for you 
nor even for themselves. 

It is in contemplation to order a Contl. Tax of 1,200,000 Dols. to pay 
the intrest of the funded debt for 1783.® This will be constitutional and 
in my opinion much better than the Impost ; but should that be adopted, 
this will probably be laid aside. We wait the result of your present de- 
liberations with impatience. Georgia has not yet agreed to the Impost. 



[601 ]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 One of these is no. 573, ante. 

3 See no. 569, note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 12, 14, 23, and no. 486, ante. 
° See no. 606, post. 



August, 1782 455 

602. Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton/ 

D'r S'r, 

Genl. Washington has sent Lippencut's trial to Congress, which is now 
reading.^ 

The General in his Letter to the President seems to think that no re- 
taliation should take place. Probably this will produce a Debate, which 
though not agreeable will be of importance. Nothing else of consequence 
that I know of. I think it likely that Lippencut's Affair will be committed, 
so that if you are not well enough to come to Congress today, you may 
notwithstanding be present at the decision of the question. 

Augt. 26th, 1782. 

603. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.* 

Philada. Aug: 27th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the i6th came duly to hand yesterday. The hints which 
it gives with regard to merchandizes imported in returning flags, and the 
intrusion of obnoxious aliens through other States, merit attention. The 
latter subject has on several occasions been mentioned in Congress, but 
I believe no Committee has ever reported a remedy for the abuse. A 
uniform rule of naturalization ought certainly to be recommended to the 
States. Their individual Authority seems if properly exerted, to be 
competent to the case of their own Citizens 

The report touching the unpopularity of [General G.] " was perfectly 
new to me. It may nevertheless be true. The letter reed, yesterday from 
the Govr. is silent as to the appointment of the Commiss'rs to treat with 
the Southern Indians 

Congress re'd yesterday a letter from Genl. Washington inclosing one 
to him from Carlton with the proceedings of the Ct. Martial in the case 
of Lippencut.^ .... Genl. W. seems to [lean to the side of compassion] 

[602] 15*. C. Hist, and Geiieal. Mag., XXVII. 74- 

2 Washington's letter of Aug. 19 (IVritings, ed. Ford, X. 69, ed. Sparks, VIII. 
336). See nos. 493, 525, ante, 603, 612, 668, post. 

[603]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. io8i ; IVritings, I. 226; Papers, I. 161. 

2 Here and in two instances below (where the words are in square brackets) the 
official cipher was used. In the printed texts the cipher at this point, " 554. 308 ", remains 
untranslated. The cipher should have been 544. 308, the first number meaning General, 
and the second standing for the letter G. Madison's remark is made apropos of the follow- 
ing passage in Randolph's letter of Aug. 16 to him: 

" Have you ever heard in Philadelphia a report which has been whispered here, and 
the truth of which I cannot assent to, concerning the [unpopularity of General Green 
with his army?] It is supposed to have arisen from [a dispute with an officer] of [rank; in 
which words of intemperance and abuse fell from the mouth of] this [prudent man]. Noth- 
ing could have occasioned [this unguarded conduct] but an unparralleled and as-yet- 
incredible revolution in [his temper. I know him personally and] from hence I argue the 
impossibility of the event should it be true, and some future occasion call for a repetition 
of the [sufferings of his army under hunger and nakedness, their former fortitude] may 
yield to the impressions of [discontent]." Randolph was using the official cipher. Library 
of Congress, Ac. 1081 : Randolph Letters. 

3 See no. 602, note 2, ante. Concerning the attitude of Clinton and Carleton in the 
Lippincott case see Sparks's note to Washington's letter. 



466 Continental Congress 

but [asks the direction of Congress.] What that will be may perhaps be 
communicated in my next. 

The consideration of your territorial [report has been resumed.] The 
expedient which was meant to conciliate both sides proved, as often hap- 
pens, a means of widening the breach. The Jealousies announced on the 
side mentioned in my last, were answered with reciprocal jealousies from 
the other, and the [report] between the two was falling to the ground 
when a committment as a lesser evil was proposed and agreed to.* .... 

As I do not find that any of my letters in which Mr. L s cypher 

was used have miscarried, I inclose you a key exactly copied from mine. 
If it arrives safe, and unlocks the past letters, it may be of future use, 
you will observe and inform me whether the seal of [the letter] ' obviates 
all suspicion of its having been opened 

604. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[August 27, 28, 1782.] 
Tuesday, August 2jth. 

The Com'tt of the week, viz. : Mr. Oilman, Mr. Clark and Mr. Hunt- 
ington having reed, a petition signed by a number of inhabitants of a 
tract of Country called Kentuckev reported that it should be read and 
filed.=» 

The reading was first called for, and the purport of the petition was to 
state that the petitioners had, at the risk of their lives, settled a tract of 
country westward of the Allegheny Mountains on the waters falling into 
the Ohio, that the State of Virginia had lately granted large tracts of land 
within that district without any condition of settlements, that she had 
undertaken to form them into Counties and claimed jurisdiction there, 
that being removed above 8ckd miles from the seat of Government, it 
could not be exercised with justice and energy ; that they were in danger 
of losing their rights, if they must go to Richmond where the Supreme 
Court sat and there contend with the last Grantees ; that they have taken 
an Oath of Allegiance and considered themselves subjects of the United 
States and not of Virginia, that the Charter under which Virginia claimed 
that Country, had been disolved; that in consequence of the dissolution 
the Country belonged to the Crown of G. Britain and that by the revolu- 
tion the rights of the Crown was devolved on the United States, and 
therefore praying Congress to erect them into a separate and independent 
State and admit them into the federal Union. 

Mr. Lee was surprized that the Com'tt had not explained in their report 
the nature of the petition, as they ought to have done, as that might have 
prevented its being read. The countenancing such petitions was an insult 
to the State of Virginia. As the petition had been read, the only thing 
now to be done was to refer it to the State of Virginia. The petitioners 

* See no. 599, ante. 

* The words " [the letter] " are not in the manuscript. Concerning Randolph's 
difficulty with the cipher see no. 599, note 4, ante. 

1604]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 145. 
2 See the Journals, Aug. 27, and nos. 607, 689, post. 



August, 1/82 457 

were subjects of that State, if they suflfered grievances they should apply 
to the legislature of that State for redress, and not to Congress. What 
right had Congress to interfere? that the rights of the Crown devolved 
upon Congress was a groundless, an extravagant and idle supposition. 
Could they devolve on Congress before it had an existence? Congress 
derived its power from the Confederation, it had no right but what the 
Confederation gave it. The United States individually were in existence 
before Congress was. They were sovereign free and independent and 
retained all the rights of sovereign free and independent states, except 
what they voluntarily gave to Congress by the Confederation. That the 
rights of the Crown to the vacant Lands within the bounds of any state 
could not devolve upon Congress but on the individual state within the 
bounds of which the lands lay. 

Mr. Madison supported the propriety of referring the paper to the 
legislature of Virginia. The State he said had already taken measures 
to redress some of the grievances complained of. The legislature had 
divided the Country into Counties, they had established Courts, appointed 
judges, and brought justice to the doors of the petitioners. He was sensi- 
ble that they were far removed from the seat of Government ; that the 
time would come when the people in that Country must be divided into 
separate jurisdictions. The Constitution of the State had provided for 
that event; but the Legislature of Virginia and not Congress were to 
judge when that would be proper. The dissolution of the Charter did 
not break the social Compact among the people. The Charter was an 
agreement between the King, the proprietors, and the people. Though 
the King, by the dissolution of the Charter, might succeed to the rights 
of the proprietors, the rights of the people remained entire, and the king 
had no right to cut them into separate Governments without their consent. 
He doubted whether the present petition expressed the sentiments of the 
people in that district ; he apprehended there were few if any of the natives 
of Virginia among the number of the petitioners. That the paper read 
should be referred to the Legislature of Virginia that they might enquire 
into the facts and determine what was proper to be done. As to the 
supposition that the right of the Crown devolved on the U. S. it was so 
extravagant that it could not enter into the tho'ts of any man. li the 
right of soil devolved why not the right to the quit rents and confiscated 
estates. 

Mr. Williamson observed that the petition involved a question of a 
very serious nature ; that no doubt a time would come when it would be 
discussed : that whenever it was discussed it would be attended with most 
serious consequences, and he apprehended the sword alone would decide. 
He wished it might be put off a long time, and not revived in our time, 
nor in the time of our children or their grand children. 

Mr. MQKean was sensible it was a question of a very serious nature — 
that it must be discussed. He was not for putting off the discussion to so 
distant a period. He was not for leaving it to posterity. He was willing 
to face it with all its consequences, and hoped it would be decided before 
the present war was concluded. If the people of Kentuckey have taken an 
Oath of Allegiance to the U. S., he will take them by the hand. He is 
33 



458 Continental Congress 

not afraid of Virginia. He hoj^es no State in the union will ever be so 
great as to give laws to all the rest, nor that any will be suffered to acquire 
so much power that the others cannot controul it. 

Mr. Clark wants to be informed more particularly res^^ecting the con- 
duct and views of Virginia with regard to that western country, and what 
the meaning of the provision is of the Constitution of the State. He 
understands that they have it in contemplation to form the western country 
into distinct subordinate governments and to send out lieutenant gover- 
nors to rule them. This will be going on the plan of Great Britain with 
regard to her former Colonies, and must bring on another revolution, 
which will be attended with convulsions and break the peace of the union. 
If he is rightly informed, that plan is already in part adopted and is one 
of the grievances complained of by the people and the foundation of the 
present petition. He is apt to be jealous, but he thinks it right to be 
jealous in such a case as this. He wishes for full information. 

Mr. Howell observed that the right to the western Country was ve.sted 
in the Crown of Great B. That by the proclamation of 1763 the King 
had prohibited his Governors from granting lands beyond the heads of 
the waters falling into the Atlantic; that by that proclamation reserved 
to himself the right of pre-emption; that the Crown of England claimed 
and had always exercised the right of setting off new governments — that 
both these rights devolved on the United States. Congress had acted 
upon the former when they passed the resolution recommending it to 
the states who claimed the western Country, not to make any grants of 
unappropriated lands. See [the Journals] Oct. 30, 1779, in opposition 
to which the State of Virginia made grants of which the present petition- 
ers now complain and the nth Article of the Confederation provides for 
the exercise of the latter right by the words " no Colony shall be admitted 
into the union until such admission be agreed to by nine States." This 
is not to be confined to Colonies then or now in existence, but extends to 
any future Colony that may at any time be established or formed. 

Mr. Witherspoon began by observing that one of the gentlemen from 
Virginia said it could not enter into the thoughts of any man that the 
rights of the Crown devolved on the United States. He supposed he in- 
tended that only as a figure in rhetorick, not as an assertion that would 
be admitted. It certainly could enter into the thoughts of men and had 
actually entered into his thoughts, and it had entered the thoughts of the 
petitioners and into the thoughts of very many sensible men at the begin- 
ning of the present Controversy. The western uncultivated and unap- 
propriated lands belonging to the Crown were considered and spoken of 
early in the controversy as fund for discharging the debts that might be 
contracted in the war by the U. S. It would appear a strange whim if a 
sentiment which occupied and engrossed the minds not only of speculative, 
but of illiterate men and of the bulk of the inhabitants of many of the 
States had not some solid foundation to rest on. For his part he thought 
it founded on truth, on justice, on the nature of things, and was warranted 
by the I^ws of Society. This controversy was begun and the war was 
carried on by the united and joint efforts of the thirteen States. By their 



August, i'j82 459 

joint exertions and not by those of any one State the dominion of Great 
Britain was broken, and consequently the rights claimed and exercised 
by the crown devolved on all, and not any individual State. Why should 
one State reap more advantage than another. He admitted the consequence 
that not only the right of the unappropriated soil but also of the quit-rents 
and confiscated estates devolved on the U. S. As to the quit-rents it seemed 
to be the general opinion that they should be no longer collected, but that 
each man should enjoy the portion of land he was possessed of, clear 
of all incumbrance of quit-rents, and therefore they were not made an 
object with respect to confiscated estates; they were too inconsiderable 
to excite attention. Had a major part, or even one-half of any State joined 
the enemy, and their estates thereby became confiscated, he apprehended 
it would have been a matter of serious discussion whether they should 
belong to the U. S. or be appropriated to the sole benefit of the other half 
of the Citizens of the State. 

With regard to the powers of Congress, or of the U. S. collectively 
taken, they could not be exactly defined in the articles of Confederation. 
Cases would arise for which no previous provision could be made. These 
came under and were decided by the great law of necessity, which was 
admitted as a law of nations. It might happen that a State would grow 
so powerful and so ambitious as to be dangerous to the other States in 
the union. In such a case the law of necessity and of self-preservation 
might compel the others, by a sovereign act of authority, to abridge the 
power of that State, and even to divide it into two or more distinct and 
independent States. He would not undertake to say that the petitioners 
were within or without the bounds of Virginia, or that it would be proj^er 
or improjjer to grant the prayer of the |)etitioners ; but he saw no impro- 
priety in letting the petition remain on the files of Congress, and should 
therefore vote in favor of that question. 

Mr. Williamson insisted there was nothing before the House in which 
a question could proi)erly be taken ; that the bulk of the names to the 
petition which had been read api)eared to be signed by one or two hands : 
they might be forged. No body could say that the signers or the persons 
whose names were written lived on the lands in question, that therefore 
the paper should be dismissed. This brought on a new debate, and at last 
an adjournment was called for and agreed to. 

Wednesday, August 28th. 

A flag-ship having arrived at Philadelphia with prisoners from For- 
tune Prison in England, the Captain represented to the agent of marine 
that on the passage the prisoners had compelled him to furnish them 
with a larger allowance of provisions than the rules of the victualing 
office and his instructions warranted, and therefore he demanded to he 
paid for the extra allowance. The agent of marine having communicated 
this matter to Congress and requested instructions, his letter was referred 
to a Com'tt consisting of Mr. Duane, Mr. Howell and Mr. Izard, who 
reported this morning a state of facts as it appeared to them, and recom- 
mended that the accounts of the Captain be referred to the agent of marine 



460 Continental Congress 

for liquidation and payment. It was urged on the part of the Com'tt the 
honor of the nation was concerned; that the Captain, relying on the se- 
curity of a flag and the honor of the American prisoners, had entered into 
a contract with Government to carry the prisoners to America; that in 
making his Contract he relied on furnishing them during the voyage with 
a certain quantity of provisions, daily, the same that was allowed to 
British soldiers on board of transports; that he had been compelled to 
give more, and that the loss would fall upon him; that he might have 
complained of the violation of the flag and demanded a reparation, which 
could not have been denied; but that he contented himself with only de- 
manding pay for the extra allowance, and that this ought to be granted. 

Mr. Rutledge thought the honor of the nation no way concerned. What 
mighty stain would it be on the honor of the nation that a number of men 
who had been for many months confined in prison and half starved, which 
was the case, should, when they had the power and when by a freer air 
and more exercise they found their appetite restored, compel the Captain 
to increase their allowance of provisions. He did not see the propriety 
of paying money when the enemy refused to settle with us and pay what 
they owed for the maintenance of their prisoners in our hands. Besides 
it should be considered that many of those who were now returned were 
militia of North and South Carolina, and had been, contrary to faith and 
justice, sent to England and kept confined, when by the Cartel settled 
between Greene and Cornwallis they ought to have been at liberty and in 
their own country. That in strict justice the enemy ought to return them 
entirely at their own expense. But he did not desire this. He was willing 
that justice, strict justice should be done. He wanted no favours, he would 
receive none from the enemy. He was for accounting with the enemy 
not only for the extra allowance but for the whole quantity of provisions 
issued to the prisoners during the voyage. For this purpose he had no 
objection against granting the captain a Certificate for the quantity of 
provisions served out to our people on the voyage, and that the amount 
should be charged to us and admitted in the general settlement; but he 
was against paying any money until the general account was settled. 
Several other members spoke on the occasion, and at last the report was 
recommitted.^ 

The matter being over, Mr. Smith arose and begged leave to call the 
attention of the house to a clause in the Ceremonial established with 
regard to foreign ministers. He meant that which regulated the visits 
between members of Congress and foreign ministers. He found it was 
differently understood by different members; some thought it was the 
duty of the minister to make the first visit, and that they were bound not 
to pay him a visit or accept his invitations to dinner until they had received 
his visit. Others did not consider themselves so bound. Hence arose a 
distinction among the members ; while some held an intercourse with the 

8 The matter appears to have come before Congress Aug. 26, through a letter of 
Robert Morris as agent of marine, dated Aug. 23. The transport was the Symmetry, 
Capt. Francis Maxwell. The report of the committee here said to have been brought in 
Aug. 28 is placed in the Journals, in accordance with an endorsement on the report, under 
Aug. 27. Cf. Morris to Sir Guy Carleton Aug. 20, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 670. 
See also nos. 592, 596, ante. 



August, 1/82 461 

minister and were constantly seen at his table and entertainments, others 
where wholly secluded. For his part he thought the minister's entertain- 
ments and invitations were too frequent and that it would comport more 
with the dignity of Congress if the members were seldomer seen at his 
table. But he saw no reason why one should not be there as well as 
another and that there should be one rule of conduct for all. He therefore 
desired the sense of the house on the clause. 

Mr. Lee thought it highly proper to establish a rule. The republic of 
Venice had a law by which every member of the Senate was prohibited 
from dining with or being entertained by a foreign minister. This was to 
prevent all suspicion of being under undue influence. He did not mean 
that Congress should adopt such a rule. It was proper that the etiquette 
of visits should be settled. 

The Ceremonial being read it appeared that the clause had a reference 
only to the visits of ceremony paid after the first public audience of a 
minister. 

Several members treated the matter as trifling, and not deserving further 
attention. 

Mr. Bland thought a Ceremonial should be settled that members might 
know their place; for this purpose he would move that a Committee be 
appointed. 

Mr. Lee seconded his motion. Gentlemen might despise etiquette as 
they pleased ; but it was so important as to be attended with very serious 
consequences. Every civilized nation had found it necessary to settle it. 
We should not affect to be wiser than all the world. 

Mr. McKean observed that we might soon expect more ministers from 
foreign Courts, it was therefore the more necessary to settle the line of 
condlict to be observed toward each of them separately and to whom 
a preference should be given when together. 

Mr. Williamson made a florid harangue on the occasion and mentioned 
the house contrived with several doors and the round table at Aix-la- 
Chapelle where the ministers of several powers met to settle the peace 
of Europe.* 

Mr. Clark, composing his countenance to more than usual gravity, to 
give more poignancy to his accustomed sarcasms, wondered that gentle- 
men should call in question the importance of the subject or oppose the 
appointment of a Com'tt. He wanted to see the report and should there- 
fore vote for a Com'tt. 

After many learned arguments and fine speeches it was resolved, That 
a Com'tt be appointed to revise the Ceremonial respecting foreign ministers 
and to report the proper alterations and additions to be made thereto. 

The members chosen : Mr. Lee, Mr. Izard and Mr. Williamson." 

* Williamson's allusion is to the treaty of Ryswick (1797). 

^ The resolve for the appointment of the committee is in the Journals, Aug. 26. A 
report was brought in May 6, 1783, and recommitted. Another report, brought in June 10, 
was adopted June 11. See the Journals, p. 531 n. 



462 Continental Congress 

605. James Lovell to Wiluam Whipple/ 

Boston August 30th, 1782. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The day after I left Philadelphia was assigned for taking up 
Vermont affairs on which occasion doubtless New Hampshire ought to 
be represented but in my own opinion they had better remain unrepre- 
sented than join to forward measures which your State seems to be 
brought into; one of your late delegates I believe, made a kind of bargain 
with N. Y, delegates for the division of that country, on what personal 
and public terms 1 know not, but I think public j>eace, safety and honor 
concur in rendering any such bargain abortive and, a little while since 7 
out of 8 of the Members of Congress thought so too." .... 

606. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Alexander Martin).^ 

Philadelphia, 2nd September, 1782. 
Sir, 

You know that the eighth article of the Confederation says that the 
quota of each State in bearing the expence of the War shall be fixed ac- 
cording to the value of all located Lands and their improvements in those 
States respectively. The small States whose lands are valuable and much 
improved with Towns, etc., wish to throw the expences of the War on 
lands at large by the hundred Acres without regarding the quality or 
buildings. They would lay this beside the 5 per cent. Tax and an excise 
on Spirits and a Poll Tax. Many pretty reasons are given for this kind 
of Land Tax as that it will prevent frauds and perjury in valuing Lands 
and improvements and save a great deal of trouble. That it will operate 
as an agrarian Law in making large Land holders dispose of their Lands 
and occasion the Country to be well settled. 

All these arguments which are not without force we are obliged to 
answer for by one short argument, vis : considering the sm.allness of our 
Towns and the great tracts of broken barren and piney Lands in North 
Carolina, we should, on this plan, be charged with near double the quota 
of public Debt that should in Justice fall to our share. 

Therefore we are not bound in Justice to consent, nor are we bound 
in honor, because the Confederation expressly fixes another mode. 

In our public Letter you are informed by Mr. Blount and myself that 
we should certainly oppose the report of the Committee with this explana- 
tion. I hope you will approve our determination. Should we, supported 
as we shall be by the Southern States, be able to carry a Recommendation 
for Taxes, to fund and pay our Quota of the National Debt according 
to the Confederation, it would certainly give you and every lover of the 

(605] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 713. 

2 Lovell obtained leave of absence Apr. 15 and doubtless took his departure Apr. i6 
(see no. 477, ante). The committee report on Vermont was taken into consideration Apr. 17. 
See nos. 478, 479, 483, ante. The New Hampshire delegate to whom Lovell alludes was 
evidently Samuel Livermore, the only member from New Hampshire at that time. 

f6o6]> N. C. State Recs.. XVL 406. 



September, 1782 463 

State great pleasure to find that our State was among the first in adopting 
an honorable and just measure. Most States in the Union have their annual 
Elections in the Autumn and of course their Session for the more weighty 
business of Government is on the beginning of Winter." 

Congress will doubtless fix their plan and send on their recommenda- 
tions before that time, and as this scheme is to comprehend the payment 
of all past and future debts, you will not wonder that we are solicitous 
that the Assembly should meet, especially when you add the separate con- 
sideration, that it may be proper for our State to determine what is best 
to be done with the vacant Lands. ^ 

607. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Dear Sir. P"'"' ^'P''' 3<'- '782. 

.... Another [fjetition from Kentucky] has been [received by Con- 
gress] contending [for the right of Congress to create new states and 
praying for an exertion of it in their behalf.] A [Copy will be sent] to 
[the Governor] by [the Delegates.] Mr. [Lee moved that the original] 
should be [referred to him by Congress. The debate] which [ensued] 
was terminated by [an adjournment, and] has not [been revived.] " 

General Washington writes to Congress that Carlton had concurred 
in the proposition for a general Cartel so far as to appoint a Commiss'r 
for that purpose. There is little probability however that he has authority 
to settle such a cartel on the principles which Congress had in view, namely 
those of a national convention. It was thought by some that this would 
put to the test the sincerity of their professions on the subject of inde- 
pendence.' .... There are it seems {three letters in the ixj.st-office from 
Carlton to the Governor | which do not [apj)ear to have been licensed] 
nor is it [known how they got into that channel. The curiosity of people 
on this point is in]con[ceivable.] * . . . . 

608. John Witherspoon, Proposed Resolves.^ 

^ T^r , ,T [September 6, 1782?] 

1st. R[esolved] ^ ^ » / i 

4[th]."^ That in order to remove all doubts and jealousies which May 

exist in the States respecting the claims of individuals or Companies 

2 The grand committee on the means of supporting pubhc credit, appointed July 23, 
made a prehminary report July 31, recommending the cessions of western lands, and to this 
committee was referred, Aug. 5, a letter from the superintendent of finance, dated July 29, 
discussing at large the question of credit and taxation. The letter is in the Jourtials, Aug. 5, 
and in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 619 (found also in A'^. C. State Recs., XVI. 357, but 
there printed as if addressed to Governor Martin ) . The committee brought in a further 
report Sept. 4. See the Jourtials, Aug. 30, Sept. 4, 6, 10, 14, 16, 18, 25, Oct. i, 10, 18, and 
nos. 611, 615, 618, 632, 652. 658, post; cj. nos. 569, 572, 579, 583, ante. 
" See no. 658, post. 
[607]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 229; Papers, I. 163. 

2 The bracketed words are in cipher (official). The Kentucky petition was 
presented Aug. 27. See the Journals, also no. 604, ante, and no. 689, post. With regard to 
the earlier petition see the Journals, Aug. 23, 24, 1780. 

3 Washington's letter, dated Aug. 28, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 338. 
* See no. 635. post. 

[608]^ Library of Congress, Witherspoon Papers. 

2 The first three of the four propositions in this document are identical with the 
first three resolutions offered by Witherspoon Sept. 6, 1782. This fourth proposition con- 



464 Continental Congress 

of Men by purchase from the Indians of any of the lands within the 
cessions ^ Be it declared That all purchases and Deeds from any Indian 
or Indians or from any Indian Nation or Nations for any land within 
the cessions which have been or shall be made for the use and benefit 
of any private person or persons whatsoever, and Royal grants within such 
ceded territory inconsistent with the chartered rights, laws and customs 
of the States making such cessions shall be deemed and taken to be 
absolutely void and of no effect. 

609. John Witherspoon, " Speech in Congress on a Motion for 
Paying the Interest of Loan-Office Certificates." ^ 

[September 9, 1782.] ^ 
Mr. President, 

I must entreat the attention of the house, while I endeavour to state 
this subject with as much brevity and perspicuity as I am master of. It 
is not easy to forbear mentioning, yet I shall but barely mention, the 
distressed and unhappy situation of many of the persons concerned in the 
public loans. I shall also pass by their characters, as whigs and friends 
to the American cause. I shall pass by the services which many of them 
have rendered, in their persons, by their friends, by their purses, and by 
their prayers. These are affecting considerations, which ought not, and 
which I am confident will not fail, to have their weight with every member 
of this house. Let us then, leave these topics altogether, and let us confine 
ourselves to the duty and interest of the United States in their present 
situation, when the care of their affairs is committed to us who are here 
assembled. 

Public credit is of the utmost moment to a state which expects to sup- 
port itself, at any time; but it is all in all in a time of war. The want 
of it defeats the wisest measures, and renders every department torpid and 
motionless. It cannot be denied, that by many unhappy, if not unwise 
measures, public credit among us has been reduced to the lowest ebb, first 
by a monstrous and unheard of emission of paper money ; next by an act 
of bankruptcy, reducing it to six pence in the pound ; then by a table of 
depreciation.^ There remained but one thing which preserved us some 
degree of respectability, that the promises made to lenders of money 

tains in part the language of the latter part of Jones's resolution of Sept. 6, 1780, and the 
idea reappears in the seventh of the Virginia conditions in the Journals of Apr. 18, 1783. 
See no. 611, post. The four resolutions offered by Witherspoon Sept. 6 reappear, with 
slight alterations, Sept. 25. 

s The word " cessions " was substituted for " territory to be ceded ". 
[609]^ Works of John Witherspoon, IX. 117. 

2 It seems altogether probable that Witherspoon is here addressing himself to the 
proposition offered by a committee Sept. 9 and. with slight emendations, adopted later 
the same day, directing the superintendent of finance to give immediate orders to the 
commissioners of the several loan offices to issue no more bills of exchange for the payment 
of interest become or becoming due on loan-office certificates since March i. This was the 
culmination of a discussion that had gone on intermittently since May 24. See the speech 
placed under Aug. 5 (no. 577, ante). 

8 The "act of bankruptcy" was of course the act of Mar. 18, 1780; the "table of 
depreciation " was adopted June 28, 1780. 



September, iy82 465 

before a certain period, had been kept for three years; but now as the 
last and finishing stroke, this also is broken to pieces, and given to the 
winds. 

Let not gentlemen cry out as before, why distinguish these people from 
other public creditors ? I do not distinguish them by asking payment for 
them alone ; but I distinguish them, because their circumstances and disap- 
pointment give a new and disgraceful stroke to the credit of the United 
States. I distinguish them, because I hope that their sufferings and com- 
plaints may induce us to take some step towards the payment of all. 
Strange it is to the last degree, that this comparison should seem to set 
gentlemen's minds at ease — because great injury has been done to one 
class, therefore the same may and ought to be done to another. In this 
way it would be very easy to rid ourselves of both, and to say, why all 
this noise about loan-office certificates? have not all the receivers of 
continental bills suffered as much or more than they, and had the immense 
sum of two hundred millions sunk in their hands? — If this would be a 
good answer in one case, it certainly would in the other. Now is it proper 
or safe in our present situation, to refuse all kind of payment to the public 
creditors in this country, so numerous and so variously circumstanced? 
Let us examine it a little. 

We are now endeavouring to borrow, and have the hope of borrowing 
money in Europe. Is this way to succeed? Is it not possible, is it not 
highly probable, that our treatment of our creditors here, will soon be 
known there? Nay, are not some of our creditors interested in this very 
measure, residing there? Must not this repeated insolvency neglect and 
even contempt of public creditors, prevent people from lending us in 
Europe? I am sorry to say it, but in truth I do believe that it is their 
ignorance of our situation and past conduct, that alone will make them 
trust us. I confess, that if I were at Amsterdam just now and had plenty 
of money, I would give what I thought proper to the United States, but 
would lend them none. 

It is to be hoped, that in time truth and justice will so far prevail, that 
our posterity will see the necessity of doing their duty; but at present 
we seem but little disposed to it. By making some payment to the public 
creditors immediately, and prosecuting the measures already begun for 
further security, we should obtain a dignity and weight abroad, that would 
procure money wherever it could be found. 

Let us next consider the effect upon our credit at home. It has ever 
been my opinion, that if our security were good, and our credit entire, 
so that obligations by the public would be turned into money at any time, 
at par or at little less, we should find no inconsiderable number of lenders. 
Every thing of this kind proceeds upon such certain principles as never 
to fail in any instance of having their effect. From the general disposition, 
that prevails in this new country, real estate is less esteemed, and money 
at interest more, that is to say comparatively speaking, than in the old. 
Now, whatever success we may have in Europe, I am persuaded we should 
still need, or at least be much the better of loans at home, which are in 
their nature preferable to those abroad; and therefore whatever leads 
utterly to destroy our credit at home, does an essential injury to the public 



466 Continental Congress 

cause. Nay, though there were not any proper loans to be expected or 
attempted at home, some trusting to pubHc credit would be necessary, to 
make those to whom we are already indebted patient, or at least silent for 
some time. To this may be added that annihilating public credit, or rather 
rendering it contemptible, has an unhappy influence upon every particular 
internal temporary operation. People will not seek your service, but fly 
from it. Hence it is well known, that sometimes stores and ammunition 
or other necessaries for the army, have stood still upon the road till they 
were half lost for want of ready money, or people who would trust you, 
to carry them forward. 

We must now go a little further, and say, that if this proposition is 
inforced, it will be a great hindrance to the payment of taxes, and raising 
the supplies which must be called for from the states. I do not insist upon 
what has been already mentioned, that the payment proposed would enable 
many to pay their taxes ; because, though that is certainly true with respect 
to those who shall receive it, and though it is admitted they are pretty 
numerous, yet in my opinion, it is but a trifle to the other effects of it, 
both in the positive and negative way. It would give dignity to the public 
spirit, and animation to the people in general. It would give the people 
better thoughts of their rulers, and prevent murmuring at public persons 
and public measures. I need not tell this house how much depends in a 
free state, upon having the esteem and attachment of the people. It is 
but a very general view that people at a distance can take of the manage- 
ment of men in public trust; but in general it is well known, they are 
abundantly jealous, and as ready to believe evil as good. I do not speak 
by guess, but from facts, when I tell you that they say, we are now pay- 
ing prodigious taxes, but what becomes of all the money? The army, say 
they, get none of it, being almost two years in arrear. The public creditors 
say they get none of it, not even interest for their money. This was told 
me by the county collector of Somerset county, New Jersey, who was not 
a contentious man, but wished to know what he ought to say to the people. 
Now this small payment, as it would be very general, would be much 
talked of; and I am persuaded, for its general good influence, would be 
worth all, and more than all the sum we shall bestow. I have heard it 
said in some similar cases, you must sometimes throw a little water into 
a pump, in order to bring a great deal out of it. 

Now, on the other hand, what will be the consequence of a total refusal ? 
You have told the public creditors, that you have no money in Europe to 
draw for. They will very speedily hear of this loan in Holland. They are 
sufficiently exasperated already ; this will add to their indignation. They 
really are already sore ; their minds will be rankled more than ever. They 
are looking with an evil eye upon some new men coming into play, and 
thinking themselves unjustly and ungratefully used. I believe they are 
not so much without principle, as to turn their backs upon the public 
cause ; but a spirit of faction and general discontent, upon such plausible 
grounds, may do it essential injury. They may combine to refuse their 
taxes; and if any such unhappy associatfon should be formed, it would 
.spread ; and many from a blind attachment to their own interest, would 



September, 1782 467 

pretend to be ujx)ii the same footing, though they have no concern in the 
matter: and if this disposition should become general, it would put an 
entire stop to all our proceedings. This discouraging prospect is not merely 
founded on conjecture. I have been told that there have already been 
meetings for entering into concert for refusing to pay taxes. Is it possible 
we can, in our circumstances, more profitably employ the sum mentioned 
in the motion, than in giving satisfaction to a deserving body of men, 
and in preventing evils of so alarming a nature. 

It is possible, Sir, that some are comforting themselves with their own 
sincerity and good intentions; that they ultimately resolve to pay all 
honourably ; that they have taken, and are taking measures to prepare for 
it. A sum of money is called for on purpose to pay the interest of the 
public debts ; and the five per cent, impost is appropriated to the same 
purpose. But, Sir, it will take a considerable time before the most speedy 
of these measures can bring money into the treasury; and in the mean 
time the late step of refusing to draw bills, has given such a stroke to 
loan-ofiice certificates, that their value is fallen to a very trifle — the spirits 
of the people are broken — a gentleman told me the other day, I see the 
loan-office certificates are gone, as well as all the rest of the money. The 
inevitable consequence will be, that hard and irresistible necessity, or in- 
credulity and ill humour, will make them part with them for a mere 
nothing; and then the greatest part of them by far will really be in the 
hands of speculators. When this is notoriously the case, I shall not be 
at all surprised to find that somebody will propose a new scale of de- 
preciation, and say to the holders, you shall have them for what they were 
worth and generally sold at, at such a time. Past experience justifies this 
expectation, and no declaration we can make to the contrary, will be 
stronger than that of Congress in the year 1779, that they would redeem 
the money, and that it was a vile and slanderous assertion, that they 
would suffer it to sink in people's hands.* I know particular persons also, 
who by believing this declaration, lost their all. Now, if this shall be 
the case again, public faith will be once more trodden under foot ; and the 
few remaining original holders of certificates will loose them entirely, 
being taken in connection with those who purchased them at an under 
value. 

610. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. Sep'r 10, 1782. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's favors of the 23 and 30 Ulto. were reed, yesterday.- 
Not recollecting that any resolutions of Congress declaratory of their 
ultimate sense with regard to confiscations, have been published, we appre- 
hend that some mistake must have led to your remarks on that subject. 

* See particularly the circular letters of Jan. 13, May 26, and Sept 13 1779 
l6io]' Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Eland, Madison, and Tones) ; Cal 
Va. State Papers. III. 296. 

2 The governor's letters are in Official Letters. III. 303, 311. 



468 Continental Congress 

The Journals of Congress for 1779 are not yet compleated. As soon as 
they are you shall be furnished with a copy. The propriety of applications 
to the British Commander for a restitution of slaves having never been 
agitated in Congress, it is impossible for us to inform you with certainty 
in what light such a Step would be viewed by them. We can only say that 
in general, all separate and partial transactions between individual States 
and the Enemy are considered as disaccording with the Spirit of the 
confederacy, that a solicitation of favors from the Enemy at this juncture 
may not be very politic ; and that there does not appear to us any sufficient 
evidence that the application in question if made would be attended with 
success ^ 

611. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 
My dear Sir, Philada. Sep'r loth, 1782. 

The loss of the French 74 in Boston Harbour presented an occasion 
which was embraced by Congress, of making a small requital to their 
Ally for his benevolent exertions in behalf of the U. S. They have directed 
the Agent of Marine to replace the loss by presenting in the name of the 
United States the ship America to the Chev'r de la Luzerne for the service 
of his M. C. M. The States were unanimous in this vote. The [dissenting 
members were Bland and Jones of Georgia.] 

Independent of the motive of Gratitude, it was [certain that our re- 
sources could not launch the Ship before the winter ; that before the Spring 
she would be scarcely worth launching: that it was prudent therefore to 
dispose of her and more so by gift to France than by sale to either France 
or Spain.] ^ 

The report of the Grand Committee " that the western lands if ceded 
to the U. S. would be an important fund etc." was the subject of the 
deliberations of Congress on thursday and friday last; After the usual 
discussion of the question of right, and a proposal of opposite amendments 
to make the report favor the opposite sides, a turn was given to the debate 
to the question of expediency, in which it became pretty evident to all 
parties that unless a compromise took place, no advantage could ever be 
derived to the U. S. even if their right were ever so valid. The no. of 
States interested in the opposite doctrine rendered it impossible for the 

^ In an omitted passage the delegates speak of the act of Congress in consequence 
of the loss of the Magnifique. See nos. 611, 612, post. 

[611 ]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 231 ; Papers, I. 166. 

2 Bracketed words are written in cipher. Madison had mentioned the accident to 
the French ship in his letter of Sept. 3 (no. 607, ante). See the Journals, Sept. 3. Robert 
Morris recorded in his Diary Sept. 3 : " This day I requested a committee of Congress 
for a conference. Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Osgood, and Mr. Madison were appointed, and I pro- 
posed to them to present the seventy-four gun ship, America, to his most Christian Majesty, 
who has lately lost Le Magnifique, a seventy-four gun ship, in the harbor of Boston. The 
committee were unanimously of opinion with me that this unfortunate incident afforded 
Congress an opportunity of showing a mark of the sincerity of their attachment to their 
ally, by enabling his minister to continue the force of his fleet at a time when it could not 
otherwise be done. Besides the propriety which there is in showing this mark of attachment 
and gratitude to his most Christian Majesty, I have several other strong and pointed 
reasons which induced me to propose and always to support this measure. The want of 
money in our treasury to fit, equip, and man this ship is amongst the number." Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 678 n. See also Luzerne to Livingston Sept. 5, ibid., p. 695. 



September, 1/82 469 

title of the U. S. ever to obtain a vote of Congress in its favor, much 
less any coercive measures to render the title of any fiscal importance; 
whilst the individual States having both the will and the means to avail 
themselves of their pretensions, might open their land offices, issue their 
patents, and if necessary protect the execution of their plans; without 
any other molestations than the clamours of individuals within and with- 
out the doors of Congress. This view of this case had a manifest effect 
on the most temperate advocates of the federal title. [Witherspoon] 
moved a set of resolutions, recommending to the States which had made 
no cessions to take up the subject, and to the States whose cessions were 
not entirely conformable to the plan of Congress, to reconsider their acts; 
And declaring that in case of a compliance of the several States claiming 
the back lands, none of their determinations with regard to private property 
within their cessions shall be reversed or altered without their consent, 
except in cases falling within the 9th article of the Confed'n. On this 
motion the report was postponed and these resolutions committed. The 
report of the Committee on the last article will probably determine the 
ultimate sense of Congress on the pretensions of the companies. 

Every review I take of the Western territory produces fresh conviction 
that it is the true [policy of Virginia'] as well as [of the U. Ss. to bring 
the dispute to a friendly compromise.] A separate [government cannot 
be distant, and] will be an [insuperable barrier to subsequent profits.] 
If therefore the decision of the State on the [claims of the companies] 
can be [saved] I hope [her other] conditions will be [relaxed.] ' . , . . 

We are still left by our Ministers in the most painful suspence with 
regard to events in Europe 

612. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (John Mathews).^ 

Philadelphia September loth 1782. 
Sir, 

Your favour of the 15th ulto. by Mr. Sansum was safely deliver'd 
by him on the Evening of the 7th instant ; the Accounts you give us of 
the Circumstances inducing the beleif of an approching Evacuation of 
Chs Town are very agreeable, and we sincerely hope that an Event so 
much to be wished for, either actually has been or very shortly will be 
carried into Execution." 

We have the pleasure of inclosing you the certified Copy of a resolution 
of Congress obtain'd yesterday agreeable to your request respecting the 
Continuance of Genl. Greene in the Southern Department with the Troops 
under his Command, till the further Orders of the Commander in Chief ; 
also a resolve referring the matter to the General who we doubt not will 

8 See Witherspoon's propositions in the Journals, Sept. 6, and the resolutions (the 
same with only slight modifications) reported by the committee Sept. 25; cj. no. 608, ante. 
For the further course of the matter see nos. 658, 668, 671, 675, post. 
[6ia]i5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 77. 

2 A letter from Governor Mathews to Arthur Middleton, Aug. 25, with continua- 
tions Aug. 29 and Sept. i {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 69), mentions his public 
letters to the delegates by (John) Sansum and gives an account of matters in and about 
Charleston. A letter of June 26 from Mathews to Middleton is ibid., p. 67. 



470 Continental Congress 

upon due Consideration direct ev'ry necessary Step for establishing the 
Tranquillity and Safety of the Southern States. 

Congress have determined upon a Demand of 1200000 Dollars from 
the States, (to be raisd immediately by such Taxes as may be judged 
by the States proper and effectual) for paying the Interest due on L. O. 
Certificates and other publick Debts when liquidated. 

The Resolves are ordered to be forwarded by the S. I. F'inance together 
with Copy of the Estimate of the domestic Debt. There being no fund 
in Europe for payment of the Interest due on L. Off. Certificates since 
1st March last, the S. I. Finance was. by a Resolve yesterday, directed to 
order the Commissioners of the L. Offices in the Several States to issue 
no more Bills of Exchange for Interest which hath or may become due 
since that date." 

In consequence of the loss of the Magnifique in Boston Harbor, Con- 
gress, to express their sense of the generous Exertions of his most Ch. 
Majesty have directed the Agent of Marine to make a Tender of the 
America the 74 gun Ship now in New Hams, to Mons. la Luzerne for 
the Service of his Majesty, which has been accepted.* 

The British Genl. and Adml. have agreed to nominate Commissioners 
for settling a General Cartel, but from Circumstances we have no Expecta- 
tion of its taking place soon. The Trial of Lippencut has been forwarded 
by Genl. Carleton to Genl. Washington, who transmitted it to Congress 
where the matter lies Committed.^ Nothing of moment has occurred since 
our last by Mrs. Mathews ; we still remain without any Official Intelligence 
respecting our Affairs in Europe, nor have we any News of importance 
except what may be contained in the papers inclos'd. 

P. S. We inclose your Excellency a Copy of Genl. Washington's Letter 
to us, and also the Copy he wrote to us of his Letter of the i8th March 
last to Genl. Greene.^ A Letter reed, from the Genl. two Days ago men- 
tions his having had Intelligence from New York of the sailing of Five 
Transports some days before under Convoy of the Warwick, having on 
board fifteen hundred of the Foreign Troops said to be bound to Halifax. 

By Hey ward September loth, 1782 ^ 

613. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

^^. Philada. Septr. nth 1782. 

.... I Inclose you Copy of a Resolution of Congress respecting the 
Ship America. I Likewise Inclose a Paper of this day by which you will 
be informed of the late Change in the British Ministry. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 9, and no. 609, ante, nos. 614, 615, 618, post. 

* See no. 611, ante. 

^ See nos. 602, 603, ante, no. 668, post. 

« See no. 595. ante, and no. 625, post. 

' This doubtless should have been "September 17th". Thomas Hey ward was the 
bearer of letters Sept. 17, including a copy of this letter of Sept. 10. The text from which 
the letter was printed in S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag. is probably that copy. See nos. 622, 
623, post. 

[613]' Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 91. 



September, 1782 471 

It appears at present that they are much Elated with their success in 
the West Indies and the accommodation of their affairs with Ireland. 
What their present Intentions are time must Determine 

P. S. Since finishing m}^ Letter dispatches have been receiv'd from 
Mr. Adams. The accounts from Holland are very agreeable and in some 
particulars (which I am not at liberty to mention) Exceed Expectation " — 
have not time to add as the Mail is just closing. 

614. John Taylor Oilman to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada., Sept. nth, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You will see by the News Papers, accounts of the late Change 
in the British Ministry ; what will be the Consequence time must Deter- 
mine. I am still of opinion that the Enemy have Hopes of making a 
separate Peace with us, but, if this is the case, they must be Disappointed. 
Our Independence, and the Alliance with France, must go Hand in Hand. 
I believe it may be depended on, that abt. 1500 Troops have lately sailed 
from New York, said to be for Halifax ; what their next destination may 
be, I cannot say, perhaps a Plundering Expedition. 

A Resolution has lately |>assed, respecting Interest on Loan Office 
Certificates, which suppose you will see, by the time this reaches you." 
Genl. Washington has removed Head Quarters to Verplanck's Point. 
The French Army from the Southward marched through this City a 
few days since — are now in the Jerseys. Twelve States are now repre- 
sented in Congress. 

It was expected that Rhode Island would have passed the Impost act, 
but their Assembly broke up a few Days since, without doing it.' Nothing 
done, or likely to be done respecting Vermont affairs, or the Western 
Lands. 

It is so long since we had any accounts from our Ministers in Europe, 
that whether they are Dead or living I cannot say 

615. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 11, 1782. 

A Ship arrived here last Evening from Holland, which Place she left 
the 28th of July: she is loaded with Goods on Account of the United 
States to the amount of Thirty Thousand Pounds Sterling.- 

.... Congress have for some Time been employed in devising Modes 
for establishing Funds in the different States on General Principles, for 

2 See nos. 614-616, 618, 620, 621, post. 
{tii\^ Hist. Magazine, VII. 52. 

2 See nos. 609, 612, ante, 615, 618, post. 

3 See no. 601, ante, nos. 620, 621, post. 
[615]! Clinton Papers, VIII. 37. 

2C/. nos. 613, 614, ante, 618, 620, 621, post. 



472 Continental Congress 

the Payment of Interest on Moneys which now are or hereafter may be 
loaned : a Land Tax is talked of, and also a Poll Tax, but as all the states 
must agree, when we consider, that the 5 pr. Cent act is not yet complied 
with, I have not much reason to expect the several States will readily 
adopt this, if it should be recommended; it is agreed for the present to 
raise 1,200,000 for the Payment of Interest of Money loaned and for 
the Interest of debts due from the United States : the Inhabitants of each 
state to be paid their Interest out of the Monies to be raised in the State 
to which such Inhabitants shall belong or when the Money was loaned. 
The Quotas of the States as agreed on are different from the last Quota 
in respect to each other. Connecticut is 133,200; New York 54,000; New 
Jersey 66,000/ 

The Resolutions of our Legislature recommending the Convention, will 
not I believe have the Effect that many Gentlemen expected, as but very 
few States seem disposed to grant further Powers to Congress,* and tis 
said some of the States will not adopt the Act of Congress of [blanki ' 
for fixing the Quotas for past exj>enditures otherwise than is directed 
by the Confederation; however, the Documents our Committee may pro- 
cure probably hereafter may be of use to the State. 

616. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin).^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. i-ith, 1782. 
Sir, 

Your favor of the 20th LTlto., came to hand the Qth Instant." It is the 
only Letter we have received from your Excellency since our arrival here, 
tho' the Interest of the State induces us to wish that we could inform 
Congress concerning the progress made in filling up the Continental Bat- 
talions and other incidents that are said to have happened there. To instance 
a single one, it is reported that the Indians have been annoying the frontier 
and that a party of Militia are sent out against them. At this very instant 
Pennsylvania is pressing Congress for Continental Troops to join their 
Militia in an expedition against the Indians on their frontier, the whole 
to be at the Continental expence.^ We shall hardly think it our duty to 
oppose this measure, but if we knew that our Militia was employed in 
similar services we should certainly avail ourselves under the precedent 
of that vote to claim the whole of our expence on the Indian expedition 
as a Continental service. 

^ See no. 606, note 2, ante. 

* See no. 594, ante, and no. 618, post. 

^ The reference is probably to the act of Nov. 2, 1781. See the Journals, Apr. i, 
1782; cf. nos. 376, 455, ante. 

[616]^ N. C. State Recs., XVI. 410 (extract, signed by Williamson and Blount). 

2 Governor Martin's letter of Aug. 20 is in A^. C. State Recs., XVI. 402. 

8 See the Journals, Sept. 5, 13 ; also Pa. Arch., first sen, IX. 626, 630, 635, 636, 
638-642; cj. no. 653, post. 



September, 1/82 473 

617, Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates/ 

[September 16, 17, 1782.] 
September i6th. 

A Letter having been reed, on the nth from H. Laurens dated at 
Amsterdam the 30th May last, wherein he gives an account of his im- 
prisonment and sufferings in the Tower of London, of his release and 
of the steps leading to it, and of his subsequent conduct ; of his informing 
Doct. Franklin from Ostend that he declined acting as one of the Com- 
missioners for negotiating a peace, and of his intention to return to 
America after having visited his relatives in the south of France, a motion 
was made by Mr. Rutledge that Congress should come to a Resolution 
not to accept his resignation. This was referred to a Com'tt consisting 
of Mr. Duane, Mr. Madison and Mr. Rutledge, who next morning. 

September i/th. 

reported two resolutions which were immediately read and agreed to by 
Congress. The first was to this effect, that Mr. Laurens be informed that 
the reasons which induced Congress to appoint him one of their ministers 
for negotiating a peace still subsist, and therefore Congress cannot dispense 
with his services. And the other was to this effect, that the ministers of 
the United States for negotiating a peace be instructed, each of them, upon 
receiving information of the time and place of opening the negotiations, 
immediately to give notice thereof to the rest in Europe in order that 
they may attend.^ 

618. John Taylor Oilman to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada. Sept. 17th 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

After I had wrote my Letters of the nth Instt. official accounts from 
Holland as late as 13th July were Received by the Arrival of a Vessell 
in this Harbour, I Just noted this in my Letter to the Hon'ble the Presi- 
dent of the State and Mentioned that those accounts were very agreeable 
Especially in some particulars which I was not then at Liberty to Mention.'* 
This Vessell is One of Three which was Loaded in Holland with Cloath- 
ing etc. on account of these United States, which was purchased and 
Expected would have brought here some Considerable time past, but was 
delayed by Vile Mismanagement, are informed that another of these 
Vessels is Arrived at Boston by which Supix)se you have the accounts 
of the United Provinces acceding to our Independance, if you have not 
you will see them by the News-Papers. The particular Circumstance 
which I had Reference to in my Note in the President's Letter is the 
Negociation of a Loan in Holland. Mr. Adams informs that he has 
Opened a Loan for 5,000,000 Guilders (Equal to about 1,875,000 Dol- 

[617]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collectioiu: Revolutionary Papers, I. 154. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 16, 17, 20, and nos. 621, 624, 626, 631, post. Laurens's 
letter to Congress May 30, 1782, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 454. 
[618]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL, 1779-1790. 

-See nos. 613-615. ante, 620, 621, post. Concerning the question of "vile mis- 
management" see the Journals, Nov. i. 

34 



474 Continental Congress 

lars), this Loan, is going forward as fast as can be Expected, about one 
fourth part of the Money was Ready when these accounts came away. 
This will be of great service to us and I doubt not but it will be better 
managed than some Loans have heretofore been. 

. , . . ^ You have undoubtedly seen the Resolutions for Reducing 
Officers in our .\rmy, and those other Resolutions Respecting Interest 
on Loan Office Certificates. 

Congress have agreed to call on the several States for i ,200,000 Dollars 
to pay the Interest of Domestic Debts, the plan is not yet Compleated 
but it is Intended that Bills be Drawn on the Several States for their 
proportions of this sum and that the Holders of public securities within 
Each State shall be Intitled to payment out of the Monies Raised in such 
State before any others are paid, perhaps this Tax will not be agreeable 
to the Ideas of some, but what can be done better ; the Resolution to prevent 
Drawing Bills was absolutely Necessary at the time it passed, as we did 
not then know of any fund on which we had a Right to Draw, and it is 
my Opinion 111 policy to pay the Interest of Domestic Debts by foreign 
Loans.* I Suppose you have the Resolutions of N. York (passed some 
time Since) with Respect to Holding a Convention for the purpose of 
Considering the Articles of Confederation etc. That those Articles are 
Deficient and Imperfect in some degree must be allowed, but the Query 
is whether their is any, the least probability that a Convention would make 
any material alterations for the better, which would probably be agreed 
to by the Several States; I Suppose our IJegislature will be adjourned 
before this Reaches you. I Should Imagine that they have not come to 
any determination on this matter.^ You will Observe by the Resolutions 
for Reducing the Officers etc. that they are to Retire agreeably to former 
Resolutions which gave Half Pay. perhaps this will not be agreeable to 
our Legislature, but their was no other alternative, they would have been 
Continued drawing whole Pay, Subsistance etc. if this had not been 
done the saving which will be made by this Reduction is Calculated at 
about 700,000 Dollars pr. Annum. ^ 

In Two of my Letters to the Hon'ble the President of the State I wrote 
Respecting Depreciation etc. due to the Army for the Years 1780 and 81. 
I have not had anything in Answer therefore Conclude my Suggestions 
on that Subject were not agreeable, but as I then thought, and Still think 
it to be an aflfair worthy the Serious attention of the State, I considered 
it as my Duty to mention it 

619. Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox.^ 

ry (^' Philada. 17 September 1782. 

It will not appear Strange to you that I have taken up my pen to write 
you on a Subject in which you are no otherwise personally concerned 

8 The omitted passage contains mainly conjectures with regard to peace negotiations. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 4, 10, 18, 28, Oct. i, 10, and nos. 606, 611, 615, ante, 
620, 621, 632, 652, 658, post. 

* See nos. 594, 615, ante. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 7, and nos. 576, 585, 586, anie. 
[619] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, X. i. 



September, 1/82 475 

than as a military person who always ought to have warm military attach- 
ments, yet I confidently presume none other than such as are perfectly 
consistent with our national safety and such as will always be circum- 
scribed within the limits of national expectation. I know too well your 
liberal sentiments both towards the Army and the civil confederacy not 
to suppose that you have formed ideas of both upon the soundest principles 
of national policy. Impressed with these favourable Sentiments, I need 
not ask your Candor when I explain to you the principle which governed 
their Committee and I trust Congress itself in adopting the late System 
for the adjutant General's departments. A system no otherwise com- 
plained of to my knowledge but as the pay and emoluments annexed to the 
several officers are unequal as is supposed to the duties required of these 
officers.^ 

The Confidence unavoidably reposed in their fidelity and the great 
necessity of punctuality and energy in the execution of the trust reposed 
seem to point out as is said pecuniary emoluments as the greatest security 
for the good conduct of the Officers in that department — or that they 
be rewarded by Military rank and promotion. The present Adjutant 
General ^ (against whose Abilities to execute or promptness in execution 
no imfriendly insinuation has to my knowledge ever been made) feels 
himself necessitated to leave his Office unless his pay and emoluments 
are increased or that he be rewarded with military Promotion. The pay 
and emoluments annexed to the Adjutant General by the last System are 
those of a Brigadier General, if not, it was certainly the views of the 
Committee that they should be the same, the number of Rations are 
particularly specified as well as the Sum for Subsistence. This seems to 
be complained of, But I think without the shadow of a reason, because 
Congress are so heartily disposed to gratify the Army in these matters 
which they can do without any additional expence to the public that if 
they will make their election and point out what will please them they 
may either draw all their Subsistence Money in specific Rations or other- 
wise as is most conveniant for them, this in the present mode of supply- 
ing the Army is a matter of so little consequence to the public that it 
may without any application to Congress be adjusted by the financier and 
Secretary at War. under that head there is no reason of complaint. 

The reason given why the pay and emoluments are an insufficient re- 
ward for the Services performed is soley because a Brigadier General 
executes them, and he receives no addition to his pay as a Brigadier 
General. But if a Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel, Commandant or Lieutenant 
Colonel they will severally have such an addition to their pay and emolu- 
ments as to make them equal to a Brigadier General. In this the main 
argument seems to be grounded, for if these are entitled to an additional 
pay then certainly the Brigadier General is equally so. I will not say this 
consequence is a true one, I think it is clearly otherwise, perhaps no one 

2 See the Journals, Aug. i. The report was drawn by Osgood. Cf. no. 698, post. 

3 Brig.-Gen. Edward Hand was elected adjutant-general Jan. 8, 1781, and re-elected 
Dec. 31, 1782. See the report of a committee of which Osgood was chairman, in the 
Journals, Nov. 18 (p. 733), and a letter of the secretary at war Dec. 22, in the Journals, 
Dec. 30. 



476 Continental Congress 

office in the Army has been so uniformly the same as to pay and Emolu- 
ments as that of the Adjutant Generals. It has always had annexed to it 
the pay and emoluments of a Brigadier General. The first officer that filled 
it had the rank of a Brigadier General, the subsequent ones, till the present 
had the pay and emoluments without the rank,* therefore from former 
precedents no argument can be raised in support of additional pay. It has 
been suggested that Colonel Scammell the late Adjutant General quitted 
the Office because the pay and emoluments would not support him. But 
from my intimate acquaintance with him I have good reason to believe 
he quitted the Office from a very diff^erent reason. It seems to be advanced 
that the quantum of Promotion in the Officer that fills the Office shall 
alone govern the quantum of reward without having any regard to Ser- 
vices. I do not recollect ever before to have heard this advanced as a 
rule for adjusting rewards, But otherwise that similar Services generally 
entitle to similar rewards. With respect to this Office I persuade myself 
Congress adopted the last rule and that let an Officer of which ever of 
the grades it is confined to fill the Office his necessary and unavoidable 
expence would be great as those of any other grade. Is the opinion founded 
in Justice that if a Brigadier General fills the Office and has no additional 
pay then a Lieutenant Colonel in the same Office ought not to have any ? 
I think the plain and natural construction of the resolution of Congress 
is that the pay and emoluments of a Brigadier General are a sufficient 
reward to induce the most confidential and best qualified Officers to under- 
take it except Major Generals, for no one can suppose that Congress ex- 
pected they would reduce their own pay by accepting the Office and the 
experience of six or seven years would naturally impress them with this 
Sentiment that notwithstanding a Brigadier General filled the Office with 
Approbation and esteem at present yet if it should be our Misfortune to 
have him removed therefrom on any account Congress had no certain 
reason to conclude that all the military Geniuses best qualified for that 
Office were confined to the Grade of Brigadier Generals but on the Con- 
trary that it might be possible that from three lower grades a person might 
be found better qualified in every respect to execute the duties of that 
Office than Brigadier Generals. The opinion may have been a presump- 
tuous on. But I believe it was really so. As to rewarding the services 
of the officers with Military promotion I believe very few officers in the 
Army would be willing to consent to it. It would be attended with so 
many apparent ill consequences to the peace of the Army that no Argu- 
ments need to be adduced in refutation thereof. That the pay and emolu- 
ments annexed to the Office are as great considering the duties as those 
annexed to a Brigadier General I will not presume to determine. I can 
safely conceive that the Office is highly confidential and of the utmost 
consequence to the peace and safety of the Army — the more so the more 
honorable. 

■* Gen. Horatio Gates was chosen adjutant-general, with the rank of brigadier- 
general, June 17, 177s; Joseph Reed, with the rank of colonel, June 5, 1776; Timothy 
Pickering, with the rank of colonel, May 7, 1777 (that is, he accepted the office on that 
date; it was offered him by Washington Mar. 30) ; and Alexander Scammell, with the 
rank of colonel, Jan. 5, 1778. Scammell was succeeded by General Hand, as mentioned 
in note 3, above. 



September, 1782 477 

But as I can easily conceive where a Brigadier General has no Brigade, 
when he can have no command in the Army unless in that Office rather 
than be idle and eat the bread of an impoverished and reduced country 
without rendering any Services therefore That duty as well as inclination 
would strongly urge him to accept of such an office with the pay and 
emoluments that have invariably been annexed to it.^ Surely General 
Hand will not presume to think that he is the only person that has filled 
that office with general esteem and Approbation, he will not surely pre- 
tend that his duties are more numerous and multiplied than those of his 
predecessors or that his expences are necessarily greater. If my informa- 
tion is good his duties are not so great and consequently I cannot conceive 
that his expences are necessarily greater so that I humbly conceive that 
Congress rather discovered a liberal than a contracted and penurious 
disposition, therefore the policy of it stands upon the broad bottom of 
generous principle. Neither can there be a charge of inattention : Surely 
the subject was very carefully and very fully examined. It was not hastily 
adopted it was several months under consideration and after much con- 
versation on it by the Committee they unanimously agreed. The only 
objections in Congress against it was that the pay and emoluments were 
too great. I think from the candid explanation every charge of inattention 
will be removed. How far it is destitute of respect or anything else I will 
not determine because if the Subject was carefully attended to, if it is 
founded on liberal principles which in my opinion is clearly the case, I 
have nothing to do with respect or defences in a public capacity farther 
than directed by my own judgment which I hope will ever be free and 
unconstrained. 

Thus Sir I freely opened to you my Sentiments on a subject which I 
find has been the cause of very severe strictures. If I am wrong in my 
opinion I hope to feel the weight of rational conviction which I must ac- 
knowledge I do not at present, forgive me dear Sir for having troubled 
you thus much and believe me to be with sentiments of the greatest esteem 
Dear Sir 

your most obed. Servant, 

Samuel Osgood. 

620. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philada. Sepr. [17?] 1782. 
Sir, 

The copy of sundry late resolutions of Congress herewith inclosed will 
inform your Excellency of the necessity they have been under of enlarging 
their requisitions on the States. This necessity has resulted in part from 
the perseverence of Rhode Island in declining to accede to the 5 Per Ct. 
impost.^ 

s Cj. the Journals, May 17, 1779. 
[620] 1 Pierpont Morgan Library, Signers of the Constitution, p. 106 (signed by Madison 
and Lee). 

- See nos. 612, 614, 618, ante, no. 621, post. 



478 Continental Congress 

Since our last a Ship has arrived at this place from Holland with a 
Supply of goods for the army amounting in value to upwards of £22,000, 
Sterl'g. The despatches brought by her contain an official notification 
of the reception of Mr. Adams by the States General, in quality of Minister 
Plenipotentiary from the U. States. They also inform Congress that 
some progress had been made towards a Treaty of amity and commerce 
between the two Republics ; and that in consequence of a contract entered 
into by Mr. Adams with a Mercantile House for the negociation of a loan 
of 5,000,000 of Guilders, upwards of i Million and a half had been 
subscribed, and upwards of i Million actually paid in. It was uncertain 
however to what amount the subscriptions would be continued.^ 

On Friday last two large French frigates with supplies of money etc. 
for the French army, and despatches for Congress and the PVench Minister, 
came into Deleware bay. Having no pilots on board, they got into a wrong 
channel, and proceeded in it till the appearance of a Superior enemy below 
rendered it impossible to return into the right one. In this perplexity they 
pushed forward and attempted to force their passage with the aid of the 
tide over the shoal which obstructed it. In the attempt one of them was 
successful and has since got up safe to Chester. The other stuck and was 
lost. The money etc. and despatches on board her were fortunately saved. 
It is said that the Capt. and crew have fallen into the hands of the Enemy. 
The despaches being not yet come up, we can say nothing of their 
contents.* 

[P. S.] The post is not yet come in from the Southward. 

621. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada., Sepr. [17?] I782.-' 
My dear Sir, 

My letters by a private hand subsequent to the last post have anticipated 
the chief intelligence from Holland which I had allotted for the post of 
this week.^ I have however one important article which at that date lay 
under an injunction of secrecy which has been since taken off.* .... 

3 See nos. 613-616, 618, ante, 621, 622, post. According to Robert R. Livingston 
Adams's letters were of dates from Apr. 19 to July 5. Probably most, if not all, of those 
of intermediate dates were received at this time. They are: Apr. 19, 23 (two), May 2, 16, 
•June 9, 14, 15, July 5 (two) — found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 315, 325, 326, 392, 
420, 482, 493, 495, 594, 595. See Livingston's letters to the President of Congress and 
others, Sept. 11-15, ibid., pp. 716-730. 

* Essentially the same account is in Madison's letter to Randolph (no. 621, post). 
In the delegates' letter of Sept. 24 (no. 630, post) it is stated that the British had floated 
the vessel that stuck, capturing a large quantity of merchandise. 

[621 ]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers, vol. L; Writings. I. 234; Papers, I. 170. 

2 The first part of this letter may have been written on the i6th, as an addition 
(see no. 620, note 4, post) bears the date September 17. 

8 These were two letters of Sept. 11, summarizing despatches just received from 
John Adams. They are in Madison Papers, I. 168; the second is also in Writings, I. 233. 
See no. 620, note 3, ante. 

* Madison here summarizes Adams's contract for a loan, mentions the stipulation 
that it was to be ratified by Congress, and states that Congress had ratified the contract 
accordingly on Saturday, Sept. 14. See the Journals, Sept. 14, 16. 



September, 1/82 479 

In addition to the preceding fund Congress have been led by a [despair 
of supplies from the States to sue] for a [further loan of four million 
dollars] for the [service of the] ensuing and [the deficiencies of the 
present, Years.] This [demand will be addressed] in the first instance 
to [the court of France. In case of miscarriage there, an experiment] 
will be made on the [liberality of our new friends.] * 

The Legislature of Rhode Island has broke up without acceding to the 
impost of 5 per ct. Congress have apportioned 1,200,000 Dollars on the 
States for the payment of interest to the public creditors. Virga. is rated 
somewhat lower in this requisition than in the last ; not however without 
complaints from some quarters. On these subjects you will have full 
information from Mr. Lee, who will set off in a few days he says for 
Virga. in order to be at the October Session 

622. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (John Mathews).^ 

September 17th 1782. 
Sir: 

For fear of Delay or Miscarriage, we have thought it necessary to 
forward to your Excellency by Mr. Heyward the above Duplicate of our 
Letter sent some Days ago by an Officer going to New London in Virginia, 
thence to be dispatched to you by Express.^ .... 

We have various Reports from New York, some of which give us hopes 
of an intended Evacuation — we are anxious to hear of that of C. Town, 
and wish to have it confirmed by Capt. Joiner whom we daily look for ; 
The Carolina is moved down the river, and apparently will soon have a 
Crew — The Commodore ^ will, we doubt not, acquaint you with particu- 
lars respecting her. We have inclosed the Newspapers, and have nothing 
farther to add than that we are 

Your excellency's Most Obedt. Servants, 

623. Arthur Middleton to Edward Rutledge.^ 

Philadelphia, Septr. 17th 1782. 
My dear Rutledge, 

By my friend Heyward I embrace an Opportunity of acknowledging 
the receipt of your favour by Mr. Sansum with many Thanks for the 
good Intelligence contained therein, and not without hopes that the flatter- 
ing prospect of an Evacuation will have taken full Effect before this 
reached you.^ .... 

'^ See the Journals, Sept. 14. Words in square brackets are in cipher (official). 
[622]! i'. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 25. 

2 No. 612, ante. See also no. 623, post. Omitted passages relate to the letters from 
Adams, peace negotiations, etc., and the stranding of the two French frigates. See nos. 620, 
621, ante. 

3 Commodore Alexander Gillon. 
[623115'. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., XXVII. 23. 

2 The letter referred to is no doubt that dated "Aug. 1782 ", ibid., p. 20. See no. 622, 
ante. In the passage omitted Middleton offers his congratulations on the " Belgic Declara- 
tion" (the acknowledgement by the Dutch government of the independence of the United 
States), and comments upon it. 



480 Continental Congress 

The Alterations in the British Cabinet may perhaps retard the Ad- 
vances towards a general Pacification, But I flatter myself their present 
Delirium will soon have a Crisis, and they will once more come to their 
sober senses ; one thing to me is next to certain, which is, that unless they 
close very soon, and be content to pocket their hopes and their Infamy 
the Price of Wickedness a Carte blanche will be the Consequence, and 
that once formidable and glorious People be sunk to the lowest pitch of 
weakness and Contempt ; were I to turn Prophet, I should not think much 
of hazarding a Prediction of the National Bankruptcy, the absolute sepa- 
ration of Ireland, probably that of Scotland and to crown the whole the 
Expulsion of the present Evil race of Geese Drivers,^ and all the Curses 
attendant upon those wars vulgarly called civil which lead to and are 
consequent of an entire Revolution in Governments — I am serious and 
write from reflexion. 

624. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada. Sepr. i8th 1782. 
Sir, 

.... By Letters from France of 29th June it appears probable that 
the Enemy Intended to proceed in a general Negociation for Peace, but 
that they had altered their Tone in Consequence of their success in the 
W. Indies and accomodation of their affairs in Ireland. But Still their 
is some probability that Negociations may be again on Foot. .... 

Dr. Franklin agreed to Liberate Lord Cornwallis from his Parole in 
Consequence of Mr. Laurens being released, but Expressly made this 
Liberation Subject to the Approbation or Disapprobation of Congress, 
what they will determine I cannot Say.^ .... 

The Councils of our Enemy must be greatly divided, their Finances at 
a Low Ebb, and I really Hope as they have been Blundering for many 
Years, they will soon Stumble upon that which appears to be their only 
true Interest Vis. Seriously Endeavour to obtain a General Peace ; If they 
are Determined to have Thirteen States under their Subjection, they may 
as well seek for them in the Moon, as Endeavour to regain these United 
States 

625. John Rutledge to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada. Sep. 18 1782. 
D'rSir, 

.... You will receive, by this opportunity, a duplicate of the resolves 
of Congress, passed abt. the ^ Instt., relative to the Southern Army. 

3 "The House of Hanover. A 'goose herd' is considered one of the most humble 
employments in Germany." Note in 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag. 
[624]! Mass. Hist. Soc., C 8l B 92. 

2 See Franklin to Livingston, June 25, 28, 29 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 510, 
525, 533), and the Journals, Sept. 16, 25, 26, Oct. 16, Nov. 22, 25, 26; also Madison's Notes 
of Debates, Nov. 22, 25 {Journals, XXIII. 852, 854), and no. 693, post. Cf. no. 617, ante. 
[625 ]i William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 The reference is to the resolves of Sept. 9, which were drawn by Rutledge. 



September, 1782 481 

It appeared to some of the Committee, that the most effectual Way of 
protecting Georgia and So. CaroHna might, perhaps be, by sending a 
Force into E. Florida, but, as that wd. be operating out of the U : States, 
and you might not think yourself at Liberty to do so with't special Leave, 
therefore the last Clause in the Resolves was added. I hope the Com- 
mander in Chief will give you a discretionary power of retaining such 
part of the Army as you think necessary for the Southern States. Being 
on the Spot, and fully acquainted with all Circumstances, you can judge, 
better than any one else, of that Point — and I wish that the Part so re- 
tained may not be inconsiderable; the Southern Army could not get here 
to do any Service this Campaign, if wanted for the next, they wd. arrive 
in Time, tho' they shd. not leave Carolina for several Months ; and that 
State and Georgia will be exposed to great and iminent danger (if the 
Army is removed) whilst the Enemy have such a Force, of Regulars and 
Tories, in E. Florida, as at present. 

I think there can be no danger that an Attempt to make a Coolness 
between you and the Governor will succeed. I am sure you will give no 
Cause for it, and he cannot be persuaded of the contrary. 

I never heard of the Matter you mention, respecting your Letter, of 
March last, to Congress. If such a Matter really happen'd, it must have 
been when I was in Virginia (Whither I went, on some publick Business, 
by desire of Congress, soon after my Arrival here.) However, it is not 
improbable, for People don't like to be told of their Faults.* .... 

626. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[September 19, 20, 1782.] 
September igth. 

The house having under consideration the report of a Committee re- 
specting the Commissioners or allowance to be granted to the late Jos. 
Trumbull, Com'ry Genl. for his services.^ 

Mr. Madison arose and informed the house that since the passing the 
resolutions of the 17th, he had come to the knowledge of a fact, which 
he wished to lay before Congress and on which he meant to ground a 
motion ; and as it did not admit of delay, the vessel that would carry those 
resolutions being on the point of sailing he wished the present business 
might be postponed and accordingly made a motion to that effect. This 
being agreed to, he then proceeded to inform Congress that he had a great 
respect for the character of Mr. Laurens and entertained a high opinion 
of his abilities and integrity, and had therefore given his hearty concur- 
rence and assent to the resolutions which passed on the 17th. But that 
since that time he had come to the knowledge of some matters, which 

3 On Apr. 20 a committee made an extended report on a letter from General Greene 
dated Mar. 11. Rutledge was then absent. With regard to the change of attitude toward 
Greene on the part of Mathews in the summer of 1780 see vol. V., p. 330 n. 
[626]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 155. 

2 See the Journals, July 24 (p. 415 n.), Aug. 13, Oct. i, 28, 1782, and Jan. 23, 1783. 
The Committee Book records that a second report was brought in Sept. 16 (see the 
Journals under Aug. 13, p. 465"-)- but the Journals do not record the consideration of the 
subject Sept. 19. 



482 Continental Congress 

induced him to think it would not be proixir, at least, for the present, to 
forward those resolutions or so much of them as respected Mr. Laurens. 
He would now state those matters to Congress, that they might judge. 
He had, he said, in his hand a pamphlet printed in London entitled " Parlia- 
mentary Register," and containing an account of the debates in the House 
of Commons from the month of Nov, 1781, to the latter end of Jan'ry, 
1782, among which were debates on a petition to that house from H. 
Laurens, a prisoner in the Tower, and that the petition was printed at 
full length. He then read the debates and the petition ; and then observed 
that though the evidence was not such as would, in a Court of Law, be 
sufficient to prove that Mr. Laurens had signed and presented such a 
petition, yet coming from such authority and with such concurring circum- 
stances, it was sufficient to raise doubts in this house, and a strong suspi- 
cion that it was genuine. That if Mr. Laurens did actually sign and present 
such a petition; he had thereby wounded the honor and dignity of the 
United States in such a manner that he was no longer fit to be entrusted 
with the character of a public minister, much less to be solicited to continue 
his services as the negotiator of a peace. He would not undertake to say 
positively that the petition was genuine, though he must confess that he 
could not altogether withhold his belief of its authenticity. He ref>eated 
again the assurances of his respect and regard for the man, his willingness 
to draw a veil over this part of his conduct, and to bury it forever in 
oblivion, but standing in the place he did, and feeling as he did for the 
honor and dignity of his country, he could not, consistent with his duty, 
forbear to move, " That the resolution of the 17th day of Sept., 1782, 
informing Mr. Laurens that his services as a minister plenipotentiary for 
negotiating a peace cannot be dispensed with by Congress, and so much of 
the other resolution of the same date as relates to Mr, Laurens, be not 
transmitted till the farther order of Congress," Lie would not give so 
much credit to the publication as thereon to ground a recall, his meaning 
was only to suspend the effects of a resolution, which he was convinced 
never would have passed had the matter now before the house been known 
to Congress. He confessed that if in fact the petition was not genuine 
a temporary injury would be done to Mr. Laurens' character, and in that 
case, as soon as the truth should appear, no man would be readier than 
he should be, by every act in his power, to wipe oif the stain and restore 
his character to its ancient splendor, and therefore would wish that the 
resolutions of the 17th, as well as that which might now be passed, should 
remain secret. But when he considered on the other hand in what light 
the conduct of this Congress would be viewed by, and what effect it might 
have on the powers of Europe if a man was pressed to continue in such 
a high confidential trust and office who had prostrated the dignity of his 
Country, wounded its honour, and as far as in him lay denied its sover- 
eignty and independence, all which must be admitted, if the petition is 
genuine, he trusted he would stand excused and that the house would 
agree to his motion. 

He then rei:>eated his motion, which was seconded by his colleague, 
Mr. Jones. The motion being read from the Chair. 



September, 1782 483 

Mr. Lee said that no sort of credit should be given to the publication ; 
that he knew the publisher of it to be an infamous person, who would 
publish anything sent to him that would make his pamphlet sell, and who 
would ruin the character of any man for five shillings. That for his 
part he did not believe the petition was genuine. That it was altogether 
incredible that ever Mr. Laurens wrote or signed such a petition. That 
it was known Mr. Laurens was a man of sense, of firmness and of integrity. 
That the petition which had been read was mean in sentiment and dic- 
tion, and altogether unworthy a man of sense, that it was wrote in so 
humiliating a stile that to suppose Mr. L. to be the author of it would 
be to suppose him devoid of all understanding. 

Mr. Dyer said he could not believe it to be true. If Mr. L, had ever 
written or signed such a petition he would certainly have taken notice of 
it in his letter; he would have palliated and excused the action. He 
would have said that in an unguarded hour when under the pressure of 
sufferings and reduced by sickness he was prevailed upon to set his hand 
to such a paper, which he is now sorry for. Nothing of this appears in 
his letter ; no mention is made of such a paper. He cannot think it there- 
fore genuine. 

Mr. Jackson is of the same opinion. H he thought it genuine, he would 
be not for suspending but for recalling him, and passing a severe censure 
upon him. 

Mr. Noble Wimherley Jones believes it is not genuine, thinks it would 
be cruel to pass a censure, which this wd be, upon a man of such a known 
and established character as Mr. Laurens, even if he did write it, it was 
not to be wondered at, considering how he was neglected and what he 
suffered. He should not be condemned unheard. 

Mr. Bland spoke against the motion, vilified the publication, said that 
if notice was taken of such publications no man's character would be 
safe ; it would be easy for our enemies to publish such things of any man 
and to raise dissentions among us. 

Mr. Clymer always understood that the Parliam-cntary Register was a 
paper of considerable authority. The first publisher, Almon, was noted 
for his attachment to the American cause. He supposed the present pub- 
lisher, who succeeded him, was actuated by the same principles. It is not 
to be supposed that he would ruin the character and reputation of his 
pamphlet by publishing a falsehood which could be so easily detected. 

Mr. Lee never heard that the " Parliamentary Register " was a paper 
of any authority. He wished the gentleman had shewn what authority it 
had. He knew it was an anti-ministerial publication, and supported by 
the minority for party purposes. 

Mr. Madison spoke again, professed the purity of his motives and his 
regard for Mr. Laurens' character; urged the probability of the petition 
being genuine, and his readiness to make every allowance and excuse for 
Mr. L's situation, but still persisted in the opinion that the dignity, honor, 
and interest of the U. S. required that Congress should agree to the motion. 

The question being eagerly called for by those who were opposed to 
the motion. 



484 Continental Congress 

Mr. Wright said it was a matter that required deliberation ; it was not 
to be decided in so hasty a manner ; that for his part he was determined 
to have the yeas and nays on the question when put, and he wished to 
have some farther time to consider the motion, and therefore moved to 
adjourn, which was seconded and agreed to. 

The petition is as follows : ^ . . . . 

September 20. 

The Journal of yesterday and the dispatches being read, Mr. Madison 
arose and called the attention of the house to the subject of his motion.* 
The objections started yesterday he observed were grounded chiefly on the 
want of authenticity, though something had ben said of the inoffensiveness 
of the petition, admitting it to be genuine. He admitted that the proofs he 
had adduced would not be sufficient to convict a man on a trial for his 
life; it is possible they might not even be admitted in a court of law; 
but in matter of policy and in examining the propriety of continuing a 
person in office, they might be adduced to that house, and would without 
doubt have due attention paid to them. The publication contains an ac- 
count of the proceedings and debates in parliament from day to day. It 
is made at the time and in the place where the transaction passed, and where 
any misrepresentation might be easily detected. The petition is introduced 
by a member whose name is mentioned. Debates ensue, the substance of 
which is given; the speakers named; an order passed and the petition 
inserted, not in substance but in the very words with the address and 
the date of time and place, and signed with the name of the petitioner. 
All these circumstances carry with them such marks of authenticity as 
can hardly be doubted. With regard to the matter of the petition he 
thought it unworthy a private citizen of the United States, but coming 
from a Public Minister vested with so high a character who had been 
President of that house to whom the representatives of the King of Great 
Britain had piaid homage, and who was then commissioned to represent 
the Sovereignty of these United States, it was altogether unjustifiable. 
It was not addressed to the Sovereign but to the Speaker and members 
of the House of Commons, whose authority we denied and whose usur- 
pations had compelled us to have recourse to arms. This petition is stated 
not as coming from a citizen of the United States but a native of South 
Carolina. What is this but indirectly relinquishing the Claim of Inde- 
pendence which we have so solemnly declared and pledged ourselves to 
maintain at the risque of our lives and fortunes? A denial of his public 
character and almost a direct submission and return to that allegiance 
he had abjured in a private citizen — such a step is unwarrantable in a 
public minister; it is highly culpable. It is no slight matter for a public 

8 These proceedings are not recorded in the Journals Sept. 19. See however the 
Journals, Sept. 20, Thomson's entry under that date, below, and no. 651, post. See also 
no. 617, ante. With regard to Laurens's imprisonment in the tower see Wallace, Life of 
Laurens, pp. 362-389. The petition (here omitted) is at p. 385. See also Laurens's address 
to Congress Dec. 20, 1781, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 67. A discussion of the episode 
is ibid., I. 582-584. 

* See the entry under Sept. 19, above. 



September, 1782 485 

minister to deny the Sovereignty of the Country which he is appointed 
to represent. What then must it be in the petitioner, who had been raised 
to the highest rank and held the first place in the Sovereign Assembly 
of these U. S. ? The manner in which this is acknowledged — " some time 
recognized by the British Com's in America by the stile and title of his 
Excy. H. L., President of Congress " — is too mean and contemptible to 
deserve animadversion. Let us now examine the Arguments used to induce 
the house to grant the prayer of the petitioner : " Your Representor for 
many years at the peril of his life and fortune ardently labored to preserve 
and strengthen the ancient friendship between G. B. and the colonies, and 
in no instance ever excited on either side the dissentions which separated 
them." Is not this almost in direct terms condemning the measures taken 
by his Country to maintain and defend their rights, " in opposing which 
he risqued his life and fortune? " To suppose he alluded to an opposition 
to the measures of Britain would be to suppose him guilty of the most 
manifest absurdity, and to insult the house to which he most respectfully 
prefers his humble petition. But the two following paragraphs puts it 
beyond all doubt in what manner he wished to be understood. " The 
commencement of the present war was a subject of great grief to him, 
in as much as he foresaw and foretold in letters now extant the distresses 
which both countries experience at this day." " In the rise and progress 
of the War he extended every act of kindness in his power to persons 
called loyalists and quietists as well as to British prisoners of War, very 
ample proofs of which he can produce." These are arguments addressed 
to the justice of the house to induce them on account of his merits to 
grant him an enlargement from his confinement. The arguments which 
follow, drawn from his ill state of health and sufferings in prison, are 
addressed to their humanity but the humility and tenor of the prayer, 
considering the character of the person who prefers it, deserves particular 
attention : " Therefore your Representer humbly prays your honors will 
condescend to take his case into consideration, and under proper conditions 
and restrictions grant him enlargement or such other relief as to the 
wisdom and benignity of your honors shall seem fitting." Taking it then 
for granted that the petition was genuine, or admitting a probability or 
even a possibility of its being genuine, he submitted it to the wisdom 
and candor of the house whether it would not be proper to suspend the 
forwarding the resolution of the 17th, and to agree to his motion. How- 
ever if any gentleman had any doubts or thought his motion too strongly 
pointed against Mr. Laurens, he had no objection against altering it so 
that the end he had in view might be attained. And therefore he would 
consent to vary it so as to take in both the resolutions passed on the 1 7th 
and leave Mr. L's name out of the motion. 

Mr. J. Jones said he seconded the motion as it was made yesterday. 
The motion was then read from the Chair in the words in which it was 
yesterday expressed, whereupon 

Mr. Rutledge arose, and after a short exordium, in which he expressed 
the delicacy of his situation and his feelings from an apprehension that 
what he might offer on the occasion might be attributed to an attachment 



486 Continental Congress 

to Mr. Laurens on account of his coming from the same State, and assured 
the house that his judgment was not biased by any personal attachments 
or local prejudices, but influenced solely by what he thought just and 
right, he entered on the subject, which he said he would consider in two 
points of view : 

1. With respect to the authenticity or genuineness of the petition, he 
said he would shew that no regard ought to be paid to the publication, 
and that there were the strongest arguments to believe that the petition 
there quoted was not genuine. 

2. But even granting that it was genuine, there was nothing contained 
in it to warrant the present motion. 

It was, he said, well known that the " Parliamentary Register " was a 
party paper set on foot by those who were in opposition to the late Ministry, 
and calculated to support the measures of the minority. Little regard 
was therefore to be paid to it. Even the bringing forward this petition, 
and the supporting it as mentioned in the publication, was not done with 
a view to serve or relieve Mr. L., for they only move that it lie on the 
table, but sojely with a design to embarrass and perplex the Ministry. 
Who can say that the petition was not fabricated by them for that purpose ? 
For his part he thought it highly probable that it was. It is possible they 
might have induced Mr. Oswald, the friend of Mr, L., to concur in the 
measure, and he might have persuaded Mr. L., in the low condition in 
which he was, to give his consent, or not to oppose it; but would this 
make it Mr. L's petition? Surely no. 

But suppose Mr. L. actually wrote, signed, and sent in the petition as 
quoted. What is there contained in it which can give such mighty offence ? 
It is true he does not say that he is a citizen of the free and independent 
States of America, that he ought to be considered as a prisoner of war, 
that they had no right to keep him confined in the tower as a State 
prisoner. This, he said, would be fine, high-sounding language. But he 
wondered whether any person here present would use it in the condition 
Mr. L. was. He was committed to the Tower when he was dangerously 
ill, confined there upwards of fourteen months, deprived of visits of his 
relatives and friends, and even denied common sustenance. There is a 
servant of his now in town who declares that to his knowledge he was 
five days without any other victuals than one fowl. It appears that the 
Ministry wanted to starve him to death. Then there would have been an 
end of him. All this time he finds himself neglected by his Country and 
their servants who ought to have exerted themselves for his relief. He 
had applied to the British Ministry, but to no purpose. What was he to 
do? Was he to submit to his fate and die in prison, without making 
this effort to regain his freedom, and be again in the way of serving his 
Country? Surely no; it could not be exj)ected. There was a prospect of 
obtaining relief from the House of Commons. He applies. The tenor of 
the petition was such as not to give offence, and was calculated to obtain 
what he wanted. In this view it is proper, and warranted by former pro- 
ceedings of Congress. Here he instanced the different language held 
by Congress with regard to the Roman Catholic Religion in the address 
to the people of G. P>ritain, and that to the inhabitants of Canada. He 



September, 1782 487 

then proceeded to observe that the representation or |)etition declared that 
it came from H. L., who had been President of Congress; that he had 
laboured to strengthen and preserve the ancient friendship between G. B. 
and the Colonies. This, he supposed, alluded to his conduct before the 
Declaration of Independence, and he appealed to the recollection of Mem- 
bers whether Congress had not expressed themselves in still stronger 
terms in their petition to the King and address to the people of Great 
Britain. That the commencement of the war was a subject of grief to 
him might be very true ; it was the same to many who are now firm friends 
to Independence. That he foresaw and foretold the distresses which both 
Countries experience at this day only proves that he was a better prophet 
than others. As to what is mentioned in the next paragraph, " that he 
extended every act of kindness in his power to persons called loyalists and 
quietists," though he did not think it a matter to boast of, as he abominated 
the characters there described, and believed he should never have sub- 
scribed his name to such a paragraph, yet he would not therefore condemn 
Mr. L., as he was sure that Mr. L. referred to his private not to his public 
conduct. He had acted with him in public office, and he never saw a 
disposition in him to show any improper indulgence to the enemies of his 
Country. But as he was a man of wealth it is not improbable he might 
have extended acts of benevolence and charity to the persons mentioned. 

Upon the whole he saw nothing criminal in the jxitition, nothing that 
would warrant Congress in passing so heavy a censure on him as the 
present motion carried with it. He believed him to be a man of sense, 
well attached to the Liberty of his Country, and who would be very useful 
in a negotiation for a peace. He thought him worthy of trust, and could 
with great confidence commit to him the interest of his Country, and 
therefore would give his negative to the motion. 

Mr. Howell wished to be informed whether the facts mentioned in the 
petition were true, namely : whether he had in the beginning of the con- 
test acted in such a manner as to endanger his life and fortune, and whether 
he had distinguished himself by acts of kindness to tories and prisoners. 
Those who came from the same State could ascertain this, and the as- 
certaining the truth or falsehood of what is set forth in the petition would 
greatly influence his judgment. 

Mr. Clark firmly believed that the petition was genuine. He did not think 
there was a member on the floor who doubted it. But it was not that 
which influenced him. Mr. L. had been appointed to an office which he 
has declined to execute. He no doubt had his reasons ; he may have entered 
into engagement with the Brit. Ministry that rendered it improper to 
execute the office. For his part he did not know what his reasons were, 
but whatever they were he was not for ramming his Commission down 
his throat. If he had been present he should have voted against the reso- 
lution of the 17th and would now vote for the motion. 

Mr. Dyer spoke long, and expressed his good opinion of Mr. L. 

Mr. Jackson. Does not know Mr. L., but has heard a good character 
of him. He does not believe that the petition is authentic. He thinks it 
very improbable. 



488 Continental Congress 

Mr. Bland spoke against the author or authors of the publication. If 
such pieces were attended to it would he very easy for our enemies to 
blast the character of the best men in America, and to sow dissentions 
among us. Things had been published in English papers and pamphlets 
unfavorable to the character of some who were now members of Congress. 
But Congress did not think them worthy of notice, and he did not see why 
they should take any notice of this. 

Mr. McKean went into a large encomium on Mr. L, He saw nothing 
criminal in the petition, nothing that affected the heart. He was inclined 
to believe it might be genuine. He had always considered the Parlia- 
mentary Register as a publication worthy of credit. He knew the original 
author was a friend to America, and that the paper was begun and under- 
taken at the instance of forty gentlemen opposed to the British Ministry 
and friends to America, and who supported it by annual subscriptions. 
He supposed it was still conducted under the same influence, and that 
it stated facts truly. But from his knowledge of Mr. L. and of the high 
opinion he had of his integrity and abilities he thought him worthy of 
trust, and who would be very useful in the negotiation for peace, and 
therefore must vote against the motion. 

Mr. Williamson and Mr. Lee both spoke against the publication. 

Mr. Riitledge animadverted with great warmth on Mr. Clark's observa- 
tion, " that Mr. L. may have entered into engagement with the British 
Ministry," and in a very loud tone of voice asked, does the member know 
he has entered into such engagements? If he does, let him produce his 

proofs. He does not understand this mode of {illegible) character 

by surmises. The character of persons in high offices of trust and confi- 
dence, and especially of public ministers ought to be sacred and not trifled 
with in that manner. The gentleman said he did not think there was a 
member on the floor who doubted the genuineness of the petition. He did 
not understand such expressions. For his part he very much doubted — 
nay, he believed it was not genuine, and several others were of the same 
opinion. 

Mr. Lee and Mr. Dyer again spoke in favor of Mr. L. 

Mr. Jackson thought if the motion passed that it ought to have a pre- 
amble, and therefore he moved to affix a preamble stating that Whereas, 
that it appears Mr. L. presented such a petition. This brought on a new- 
debate, or rather a conversation, and it being intimated that if the pre- 
amble was insisted on the yeas and nays would be called on the question, 
the preamble was withdrawn. At length the question was called, and the 
yeas and nays being required by Mr. Wright on the question to agree to 
the motion So the motion was lost.^ 

627. William Ellery to Nathan Miller,^ 

Newport, Sep. 21, 1782. 

Since my return from Philadelphia I have been informed that the 

Hon'ble David Mowrey [Daniel Mowry] had told you that I was an 

^ The yeas and nays, which are in the Journals, are here omitted. 
[627]iFrom the collection of the late James H. Manning of Albany, New York (ad- 
dressed, "Genl. Miller, Warren"); Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, item 9. 



September, I/82 489 

enemy to Genl. Washington, and in proof of his assertion said that, upon 
a question in Congress, whether Genl. Washington or Genl. Gates should 
be Commander in chief of the armies of the United States, I had voted 
for Genl. Gates, or words to that purpose, and that he had seen the vote 
in the journals of Congress, or had a copy of it at his house. 

As by a report of this sort my character hath been sensibly affected in 
this State, I am determined to call upon Mr. Mowrey for an explanation 
of his conduct in this instance; and in order to do it with propriety I 
wish to know from you the expressions he made use of as exactly as you 
can recollect them. 

I am encouraged to expect this favour from you, Sir, because they are 
naturally and strongly disposed to assist others in vindicating their injured 
reputations, who have a proper sense of true honour themselves.^ 

I am, Sir, your most h'ble servant 

William Ellery. 



628. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 21, 1782. 

We have been honoured with your Dispatches of the i6th Instant 
relative to the violent Outrages committed by Ethan Allen and others on 
the peaceable Inhabitants of our State residing on the New Hampshire 
Grants. Congress having adjorned on Fryday until Munday, we have had 
no oppertunity, with any kind of Propriety, to lay the Information before 
them, but shall do it before any other Business is taken up on Munday 
Morning. As in all Probability the Papers will be committed and it may 
be some Days before any thing finally is determined on, we thought it 
unnecessary to Detain Barckley, especially as he is anxious to return as 
soon as possible.^ 

This New and unexpected Violence, offered, in direct Opposition to 
the Recommendations of Congress, to those peaceable Citizens who have 
always strictly adhered to the same, and the dangerous Consequences 
which may ensue from such evil Examples, will we trust induce Congress 
immediately to interpose and exert their Authority for the Releif and 

2 In the Emmet Collection (Misc. MSS.) is part of a draft of a letter (4 pages), 
dated "Newport July, 1782", from Ellery to an unnamed correspondent upbraiding him 
for remarks of the character here attributed to Daniel Mowry. The draft is marked (in 
pencil) " Ellery to Howell ", but the letter was evidently to Mowry, not to Howell. This is 
borne out not only by this letter from Ellery to Miller, but also by Howell's letter to 
Ellery, Aug. 10 (no. 587, ante). It is of course possible that the letter of July was never 
sent; yet Howell's letter reveals that Ellery had spoken of the matter to him in a letter 
of July 6. The inference from this letter from Ellery to Miller is that the call upon Mowry 
for an explanation had not yet been made. 

[628]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4773 (in the writing of L'Hommedieu. 
except the complimentary close and Duane's signature, which are in the latter's writing ; 
addressed, " His Excellency George Clinton Esquire Governor of the State of New York 
Poughkipsie"). 

- See the Journals, Sept. 23 (p. SQ^n.), and nos. 629, 632, 644, 645, post; see also 
nos. 508, 509, 514, 576, 578, ante. 

35 



490 Continental Congress 

Protection of those unhappy People, our Fellow Citizens, now made 
Prisoners by a lawless Power. 

Your Excellencey may rest Assured that we shall exert ourselves to the 
utmost for their Releif, and that Measures may be Adopted for the 
future Protection of the Adherents to our State who reside in that District 
of Country. 

There are not so many States at present in favour of the Independenc 
of Vermont as there were last Year and altho a Majority of the States 
present are opposed to it, yet it is very doubtful if any Decision can now 
be obtained on the controversy submitted to Congress conformable to 
their Act of the [24th] of Sept. 1779. We shall however attempt it, if 
we can find there is the least probability of Success. 

Our Act of the Legislature for quieting the minds of the Inhabitants 
in the Northeastern Parts of the State ^ has had a good Efifect, and we 
have reason to beleive if the Disputes about the Cessions of the back Lands 
belonging or claimed by the southern States are settled, few or none of 
the States in the union will interest themselves in favour of the Vermont 
Independence. 

we shall give your Excellency the earliest Intelligence of any Determina- 
tion Congress shall make on the Communications we have been honoured 
with. 

We have nothing new since the Secretary of foreign Affairs left this 
Place, he will give you a more particular Information of our Intelligence 
from Europe than we are able to do by writing. 

We have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir 

Your Excellency's most Obedient and very humble Servants 

Jas. Duane 
Ezra LHommedieu. 

629. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 21st Septr. 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellency's dispatches by Barclay came safe to hand and claim 
our serious Attention. Yesterday they woud have been communicated 
had not an unexpected Business employd Congress to a late Hour and 
rendered it impracticable. Every Saturday being assigned for the Grand- 
committee " on the Publick Credit " Congress adjourned till Monday. 
This unavoidable Delay induces us to dispatch Barclay and trust to some 
other Conveyance to transmit the Result of the Information with which 
you have been pleased to furnish us. Barclay's apprehension that his 
money woud not hold out, and the dilatory progress of every Measure 
which respects Vermont, gave us no Choice on this Occasion. If it was 
not for the distresses of our Friends I shoud not be sorry, that this 
Commotion has taken place, especially as Ethan Allen is the author of it. 

8 The act is found in the Journals, under May 21. See nos. 508, 514, ante. 
[629] ^N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4772 (extract). 



September, 1/82 491 

His character is well known and odious, and there cannot be a plainer 
Omen of the sinking Cause of Vermont than that it is committed to his 
Management. What will be the Opinion of Congress it is difficult to 
determine. If Jersey and Pensylvania have changed their Sentiments 
something may be done to the purpose. I do not so far despair of Mary- 
land as to believe she will persist in an Error which has been injurious 
to her best Friend. But I travel in the wide Field of Conjecture ; and a 
few days may convince me that I have made a false Estimate. This is 
all I think necessary to add to our Publick Letter which Mr. Lhommedieu 
prepared whilst I was at the Grand committee.^ .... 

I beg you to believe me to be always, with the truest Regard and 
Afif action. 

630. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. Sepr. 24th, 1782. 
Sir, 

Yesterday's post brought us no letter from your Excellency. That of 
the 5th instant which had not arrived at the date of our last was received 
a few days after.^ 

By the two Frigates mentioned in our last,^ Congress have received 
letters from Doc'r Franklin and Mr. Jay who were at Versailles, dated 
the 25 and 29 of June. The Sum of the intelligence which they bring 
concerning negociations for peace is that the Sincerity manifested at one 
period by the Court of London in her advances towards a pacification had 
been succeeded by an apparent design to draw the negociations into length 
with a hope of such further advantages during the campaign as would 
enable her to rise in her demands. Some communications which have been 
made to Congress by the French Minister present the same idea.* 

The loss sustained in the French Frigate which had got aground in 
Delaware bay, proves to be greater than was first reported. The enemy 
have succeeded in their attempts to float her, and have taken in her besides 
a considerable quanity of Merchandise 50,000 dollars. 

2 See no. 628, ante. 
[630] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V, Henkels of 
Philadelphia ; Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 325. 

2 A brief letter of Sept. 6 is in Official Letters, III. 320. 

* See no. 620, note 3, ante. 

* The letters of Franklin and Jay appear to have been read in Congress Sept. 18. 
The letter from Franklin to the superintendent of finance, mentioned in the Journals, 
p. 591, as of June 15, was evidently the letter to Morris June 25 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr.', 
V. 513)- Franklin's letter of June 25 to Livingston is ibid., p. 510, Jay's of June 25 is ibid., 
p. 516, Franklin's of June 29 is ibid., p. 533 (the same letter, dated June 28, is ibid., p. 525). 
A letter from Jay to Livingston June 28 is ibid., p. 527. See also Franklin's Journal, Mar. 
2i-July 1, ibid., pp. 535-585- The communications from the French minister to Congress 
are in the Journals, Sept. 23, 24. 

A letter from Robert Morris to Franklin, dated Sept. 28, suggests that, in connection 
with these proceedings in Congress, Arthur Lee must have thrown out aspersions against 
Franklin. The original letter (enciphered) is in the Library of Congress, Franklin Papers. 
A printed text is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 483, and in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 779 (said to have been taken from a translation in the 
writing of Gouverneur Morris). The Gouverneur Morris translation was at one time in 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. See no. 599, ante, and no. 642, post. 



492 Continental Congress 

The paper No. i herewith inclosed, being an Extract of a letter from 
Doer. Franklin to the Superintendant of Finance will inform your Excel- 
lency of some further tokens of Friendship which the United States have 
received from their ally. 

The paper No. 2, contains an answer from Congress to the Resolution 
of the Assembly of the 2d of July last." 

We have the honor to be with great esteem 

Yr. Exclly's Obt. Hble Servants 

J Madison Jr. 
Jos. Jones 
A. Lee 
Theo'k Bland Jr. 

631. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. "^ 

Philada. Sepr. 24th 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Our Ally has added another important link to the chain of bene- 
fits by which this Country is bound to France. Fie has remitted to us all 
the interest which he has paid for us, or was due to him on loans to us, 
together with all the charges attending the Holland loan, and has more- 
over postponed the demand of the principal till one year after the war, 
and agreed to receive it then in twelve successive annual payments. These 
concessions amount to a very considerable reduction of the liquidated 
debt.^ The fresh and large [demand which we are about to make on him, 
will I fear, be thought an unfit return for such favors.] It could not how- 
ever be avoided. [The arrears to the army in January next] will be up- 
wards of [six million dollars. Taxes] cannot be [relied on.] Without 
money there is some reason to surmise that it may be [as difficult to 
disband an army as it has been to raise an army.] 

My last informed you that Mr. [Laurens] had [declined serving in 
the] commission [for peace. His proceedings during his captivity as stated 
by himself,] are far [from unexceptionable: Congress nevertheless were 
prevailed upon to assent to a resolution informing him that his services 
could not be dispensed with. A few days after this resolution had] passed, 
several [numbers of the Parliamentary Register^ were [received at the 
Office of Foreign Affairs, in one of which was published the enclosed 
petition. The petition] was [introduced] by Mr. [Burke], was a [subject 
of some debate, and] finally [ordered to lie on the table. The extreme 
im] propriety [of a representative of the U. S. addressing] that [very 
authority against which they had made war with the pusilanimous and 
almost penitential language of the address] determined [Mr. Jones and 

^ See the Journals, Sept. 18. Enclosure no. i was an extract of Franklin's letter to 
Morris June 25, mentioned in note 4, above. 

[631]^ Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks 
MSS., no. 52, vol. IIL, p. 371 (extract) ; Writings, I. 238; Papers, I. 173. 

2 See Franklin's letter to Morris June 25 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 513), and 
the Journals, Sept. 23. Words in square brackets in the passages which follow are written 
in cipher (official). 



September, 1782 493 

myself] to [move] that [the resolution above] referred to should [not 
be transmitted until the further order of Congress. In] support [of the 
motion it was observed], that however [venial the fault] might [be in a 
private view], it evidently rendered [Mr. Laurens no longer a fit de- 
pository for the public dignity and rights] which [he had so far degraded, 
and] that if [Congress should reinstate him] against [his own desire and 
with] this [fact before their eyes] it would seem as if they meant [to 
ratify instead of disowning the degredation. ] 

The [motion was opposed on two grounds] first that [the character 
of Mr. Laurens and the silence of his letter over-balanced the testimony 
of the Register and] rendered [the fact incredible;] 2dly, that [the fact 
altho' faulty ought to have no influence on the public] arrangements. 
The first [objection was the prevailing one]. The second was [abetted 
by but few]. Several professed [a readiness to renounce their friend in] 
case [the] authenticity [of the paper should be verified]. On the [question 
there were five noes three ays two divided two half votes ay.] The 
[petition] had been [published some time ago at New York and] had 
[made some noise in New Jersey but] was ultimately [regarded as 
spurious]. There are so many [circumstances relating to this gentleman 
during his captivity] which [speak a bias towards the British nation and 
an undue cordiality with its new leaders] that [I dread his participation 
in the work of peace]. ^ .... 

As some of Mr. L's friends strenuously maintain that the Petition 
inclosed is spurious, I would not wish it to be made public through me, 
untill the matter be ascertained, or he be present to explain it.* 

632. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Sept. 25th 1782. 
Sir, 

.... I am Just informed that the Tax agreed to by Congress for 
the discharge of Interest on Our Domestic Debts, has been forwarded 
to the several States, as I Supposed the Business Incomplete, as to time of 
Payment etc. I did not Expect it would have been forwarded so soon. 
You will Observe that the Proportion set to New Hampshire is not so 
High as the last proportion was, but it is my fixed Opinion that it is much 
more than it ought to be.^ 

^ See nos. 617, 621, 626, ante, 658, 693, post. 

* Following Madison's letter is a copy of Laurens's petition of Dec. i, 1781, in the 
margin of which Madison has written (partly in cipher) : " I am informed that [at the 
time of the Stamp Act his House was beset by a mob] in consequence of his known 
heterodoxy." In the same volume of Madison Papers is a second copy (in his own hand) 
of the passage relating to Laurens, as also a second copy of the petition. The petition is 
printed in the Madison Papers, 1. 177. See no. 626, note 3, ante. 
[632]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, XL 55. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 4, 10, 18, and no. 618, ante. The New Hampshire quota 
in the apportionment of Sept. 10 was 4 per cent. In the apportionment of Nov. 2, 1781, it 
was (approximately) 4-67 per cent. Cj. nos. 455, 467, 478, 483, ante, and nos. 652, 655, 658, 
666, post. 



494: Continental Congress 

an Express arrived here few days Since, from the Governor of the 
State of New- York, to the Delegates of that State, Informing that a 
Number of Persons on the West Side of Connecticutt River had been 
made Prisoners by the authority of Vermont, and Inclosed Some Deposi- 
tions Respecting this matter. You are Undoubtedly Informed of the 
Transactions there so that I need not be particular, these Papers are now 
under the Consideration of a Committee, what will be Concluded on I 
cannot Say.' .... 

6^^. Abraham Clark to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly 

(John Mehelm).^ 

Philada. Sept. 26th, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... I must also take the liberty of mentioning a matter which greatly 
embarrasses Congress — ^I mean that relative to the half pay of officers; 
This was engaged by Congress previous to the final ratification of the 
Confederation, but not agreed to by the Number of States as became 
Necessary for such a measure after that event took place : The New 
England States positively refuse a compliance; the Delegates of New 
Jersey are also restrained by the sense of our Legislature long since ex- 
pressed : five States are Sufficient to prevent any appropriation of money 
for that purpose which requires the concurrence of Nine states. In this 
aflfair the disagreeing States do not mean to commit such a breach of 
publick faith as to deprive the Officers of their just dues, all desired is, 
that the Officers may be referred to their respective States to receive their 
half pay, or such other compensation as the Legislatures may judge proper, 
without making the same a Continental Charge — each state taking upon 
themselves the Sattisfying their own Officers, this will be just in many 
respects, and I believe will give Sattisfaction to the officers, for it cannot 
be supposed the Legislatures will refuse justice to their own Citizens; 
and by this measure they can secure the application of their own money. 
States which have been Multiplying their Officers, and send little or no 
money into the publick Treasury, wishing to draw pensions for their 
Citizens from other States, will of course be Opposed to this measure. 

This subject I hope will be duly considered by the Legislature, and their 
opinion thereon communicated to their delegates.^ 

The representation of the Legislature brought by Col. Ellis was pre- 
sented this morning and referred to the superintend't of finance who I 
have requested to consider and report thereon as soon as possible. 

8 See nos. 628, 629, ante. 
1633]! N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 333; A^. /. Rev. 
Corr., p. 324. 

2 The half-pay measure was adopted by Congress on May 15, 1778. For proceed- 
ings upon it in 1778 and subsequently consult the index to the Jotirmls. See also these 
Letters, vols. III.-V. ; cf. nos. 691, 698, 710, post. 



October, 1/82 
634. The New York Delegates to Ezekiel Cornell.* 



495 



[September — , 1782.] ^ 

We are honourd with your favour of the i6th Instant. A candid 
Answer to the Questions of Fact which you suggest we conceive to be 
your Right : and We therefore declare that it has appeared to us that you 
have uniformly dissented from the half pay Establishment; because it 
was against the Sense of your own State; and that your Efforts have been 
pointed to secure a Share of the Western Lands, as they are called, for 
the common benefit of all the States. 

Your Case, Sir, seems to be a Proof that an active Zeal for the common 
Cause, a long course of publick Services,^ and a high Degree of the Confi- 
dence of Congress, will not always protect the best and most useful Friends 
of their Country from Misrepresentation — for among them we can with 
the utmost Truth give you a place. 

635. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philada. Oc'r i, 1782. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's favor of the 20th of Sepr. was reed, yesterday. 
Whatever of curiosity or wonder might be excited by the letter in the 
post Office addressed to you from S'r G. Carlton with an endorsement 
by the Conmiander in chief, we cannot suppose that they had any other 
object than the views of the Writer, or that they included the Slightest 
jealousy of your Excellencys patriotism.^ 

The paper No. i, herewith inclosed is a copy [of] intelligence trans- 
mitted to Congress by Genl. Washington, and leaves us nothing to add 
under that head.^ No. 2 is an extract from the proceedings of Congress 
which may throw some light on the probable event of the territorial 
cessions.* 



[634]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 488 (draft, in the writing of James Duane). 
- The letter is without date but is in reply to the following letter from Cornell, 
written from Scituate, Rhode Island, Sept. 16, and addressed to " The Hon'e the Delegates 
of the State of New York " : 

" I am informed by a letter from the deputy governor of the state to which I have the 
honor to belong that it was represented in the general assembly of that state at their last 
Session (much to my injury) that I was for continuing half pay to officers for life and was 
not of opinion that the back lands should go to and for the benefit of the United States. 
Your sentiments on my conduct respecting these two Questions will be esteemed as a par- 
ticular favour." N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duane Papers, V. 484. Respecting the date of this 
letter see List of Members, under Cornell. 

3 Following this the words " close application to business " are erased. 

[635]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Jones, and Lee). 

2 See no. 607, ante, and Governor Harrison's letter of Sept. 20, in Official Letters, 
111. 326. The correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton related to the boarding of the sloop 
IVilUam and John by a part of the crew of the flag brig Maria, Capt. Benjamin Hart, taking 
prisoner five of the sloop's crew, and sending them to New York. Letters to Carleton 
respecting the affair are ibid., pp. 239 (May 31), 306 (Aug. 28), and 384 (Nov. 23). 
Other letters concerning the affair are to General Washington, Commodore James Barron, 
Capt. Benjamin Hart, and others, ibid., passim. 

3 The intelligence transmitted by Washington was doubtless that relating to 
Canada, contained in his letter of Sept. 26. See nos. 638, 648, post. 

* Doubtless the report of Sept. 25. 



496 Continental Congress 

The Situation to which we are reduced by the im|)ossibility of negociat- 
ing bills on Virginia obliges us to renew our intreaties that some effectual 
and Speedy steps may be taken for adequate remittances to us. It is un- 
necessary we are persuaded to multiply words on this Subject to your 
Excellency who will so readily conceive the cruel distress which must 
attend a disappointment, and who is so much disposed to obviate it/ 

636. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philada. Octr. 2d, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... I need not Mention to you that I Shall be highly pleased to have 
Judge White for a Colleague, my Opinion of his Integrity and firm 
Attachment to our Common Cause is well known; I only have to wish 
that he may be as well satisfied on that Head as I am, and that we may 
be well United in our Sentiments respecting public affairs, while we are 
together. I hope he will be here soon, but (if he cannot come sooner) 
hope he will not fail of being here by the first Monday in November; 
by the Articles of Confederation a New Congress then Meet, a New 
President is Chosen and some other matters Transacted which I Should 
be much pleased to have a Voice in, and it is well for every Member who 
Expects to Spend any Considerable time in Congress to be here at that 
time. My Letter to you of the 25th Ulto. will Evince how Necessary 
money is here, hope Judge White will bring me a Considerable Sum. 
Bank Bills are always paid on Sight, but if those cannot be Obtained and 
other Notes are Sent me, hope they will be Such as are now due 

637. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Octr. 2d, 1782. 
Sir, 

I am Honored with yours of the 14th Ulto. in which is Inclosed a 
Vote of the Hon'ble the Legislature appointing me a Delegate for the 
Term of One Year from that time. Permit me to Assure you Sir, and 
through you the Legislature of the State that I have a gratefull Sense of 
the Honor done me by this repeated mark of their Confidence. I am 
Likewise informed that the Hon'ble Phillips White Esqr. is appointed a 
Delegate. Hope he will soon be here as the State has been too long Un- 

^ Touching earlier importunities of this nature Governor Harrison wrote to the 
delegates Sept. 28 (Official Letters, III. 333) : " I wish the members of Congress could be 
properly impress'd with the distress'd situation of this State with respect to circulating 
Gold and Silver, if they were they could never make such frequent demands on us for it. 
They judge us by what they see in the vortex in which they are placed, what little money 
we had is mostly swallowed up there. I know your necessities are great but let them be 
what they will they can never force from the people what they have not, and it is extremely 
dangerous to press them too hard." See Madison's remark to Edmund Randolph in his 
letter of Oct. 8, Writings, I. 243. 

[636]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 95. 

f637]i Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 95- 



October, 1782 497 

represented. I cannot now inform you how long I can remain here, but 
if Mr. White should come on soon I Shall not leave the State unrepre- 
sented, without giving them timely Notice. 

.... the Conduct of the United Provinces is a great matter in our 
favour, believe most of the Powers of Europe now look on us as an 
Independent Nation. Great Britain must come to it, though the full ac- 
knowledgment of our Independence and a general Peace under present 
Circumstances will be a bitter Pill to them. 

638. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 2d, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

Yours of the 28th Ultimo was delivered by Martin, but have nothing 
in Return to give you in the News way, excepting some Intelligence from 
Canada, that is not yet Public — [torn\ Heldiman has news of a designed 
Reinforcement of 3 or 4000 Men from England and 1500 Hessians from 
New York, That all the Posts in the Upper Country and in Canada are 
to be reinforced,' .... 

[P. S.] Wednesday 4 oClock — We have news from Genl. Greene of 
the 29 Augt 

639. Ralph Izard to Mrs. Izard.^ 

Philadelphia 7th Octr. 1782. 
My Dear Wife, 

We received a day or two ago Dispatches from South Carolina, by 
which it appears that the Enemy had embarked all their heavy Artillery 
at Charles Town, and were waiting for Transports to carry off the 
Garrison. Nothing will happen, I hope, to make them alter their resolu- 
tion. About the middle of this Month it is thought they will evacuate the 
Town, and they will probably go to the \Vest Indies. If they have a 
sufficient number of Transports, they will carry with them about Twelve 
Thousand Negroes, which they have now in Charles Town, and which 
have been stolen in their various expeditions into the Country; in that 
Number may be reckoned One Hundred and Seventy of mine. They will 
leave us in a most defenceless condition, by carrying all the Cannon from 
the Town, and will carry to a very great amount, property belonging to 
the Citizens of our State. All this might with the greatest ease have 
been prevented by M. de Grasse. General Washington entreated him, 
almost to supplication, after the capture of Lord Cornwallis, to go with 
him to Charles Town : but his entreaties were in vain, and our Country 
has in consequence, been almost ruined. I can never think of this affair 
without the deepest sorrow, and astonishment. The Enemy made an 
excursion from Charles Town to collect Rice, and other provisions on 

t638]iHist. Soc of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 105. 

2 See no. 635, ante, the Journals, Oct. 11, and no. 648, post 
[639]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Izard. 



498 Continental Congress 

the 27th of August. General Greene's Light Infantry attacked them, and 
unfortunately Lieut't Colonel Laurens was killed. He certainly was a 
most excellent Officer, and his loss will be severely felt. I pity his Father 
exceedingly: he has already had more than sufficient number of mis- 
fortunes to contend with. He has written to Congress that he declines 
serving as a Commissioner for negociating Peace ; and he is expected in 
America this Winter 

640. Jonathan Arnold to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 8th, 1782. 
Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that I arrived in this city the 5th Instant, 
since which Congress having been engaged on business by Committees, 
and interrupted by the City Election, I have not gained such acquaintance 
with the public measures now pursuing, as enables me to give useful 
information 

641. Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer.^ 

Ph'a Octr. 8th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The report on the Cession has not yet been taken up. a vote 
was lately taken on some general propositions on that subject and lost. 
Six States being only in favor of them. Rhode Island New Hampshire 
and Delaware were unrepresented; it is now intended to bring on the 
question on the Cession of N. York, as soon as there are Seven States 
on the floor for it. R Island is now represented Delaware we expect in 
a day [or] two, and New Hampshire, next week ; there will be Seven States 
without the last, if the Delegates from Connecticut do not change their 
minds. The New York Cession being accepted, it is probable the States 
from the Northward of Potowmack will be united [?] on the future 
questions relative to the W'n Territory ^ 

642. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Oc'r 8, 1782.^ 
Dear Sir, 

.... I omitted in my late letters to inform you that the Sweedish 
Minister at Versailles had [announced to Doctor Franklin the wish of his 

[64o]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782-1783, p. 20; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 392. 

[641]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 43. 

2 See nos. 597, 599, 603, 611, ante, 658, 668, 675, post. Carroll's allusion in the 
beginning of this passage is evidently to the vote, Sept. 25, on Witherspoon's propositions 
of Sept. 6. 

[642]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 243 (part) ; Papers, 
I. 180 (part). 

'^ A letter from the delegates to Governor Harrison Oct. 8, acknowledging receipt 
of the governor's letter of Sept. 28 (see no. 635, note 5, ante) and transmitting the deter- 
mination of Congress Oct. i respecting the representation of New Jersey, is in Va. State 
Lib., Executive Papers. 



October, 1782 499 

King to become an ally of the United States, and] that the [treaty might 
be] negotiated [with the Doctor in particular.] A plenipotentiary [com- 
mission has in] con [sequence issued for that purpose.] The [model] 
transmitted [by Congress is pretty analogous to the treaty with France] 
but is [limited in duration to fifteen years.] ^ 

Mr. L 1.* Notwithstanding the particular [desire of the k]ing of 

[Sweden Lee, Izzard] and [Bland] particularly the first and last [strug- 
gled] violently [to deprive] the [doctor of the honour] intended [him.] 
Their [struggles and] man[oevres] however had [no other effect] than 
to [display their extreme enmity.] ' 

I have put the above article of intelligence in cypher because secrecy 
was requested by [the doctor.] The request has not I find been very 
scrupulously attended to by others 

In the answer to the communications of the French Minister relative 
to the current negociations at Versailles, Congress after renewing their 
usual assurances [took occasion to press] upon his [M. C. M. in] very 
[strong terms the objects] confided [to his discretion] including ex- 
pressly [the free navigation of the Mississippi.] This I hope has [ap- 
peased in some " the rage] for [varying the plan of our ultimatum.] How 
far it will be [acceptable at Versailles] I cannot say. When that [part 
of the answer was read to the Minister here by the] committee [his] 
emotion was [expressed by a] strong and universal [suffusion of the 
face.] The Declaration of Congress published in the inclosed paper will 
[however sweeten the pill.] '' Such a Declaration altho' in some respects 
[objectionable was judged upon the whole advisable at the present junc- 
ture.] Our [ministers in Europe] particularly [Jay urged it] much. 
Commiss'rs Emissaries and Spies are [announced in all their letters as 
the probable vehikles of] British poison. We all know that this poison 
requires no antidote here. But we cannot contest the judgment of our 
[ministers in Europe as to what] may be [best calculated for that 
meridian.] 

Doer. Lee sett out the day before yesterday for Virga. His arrival at 
Richmond will give you access to such of the transactions of Congress 
as I may have from time to time omitted. 

L 1. [He left] * this [place] I believe in not [the best of humours.] 

3 The proposed treaty, together with the commission and instructions to Franklin, 
is in the Journals, Sept. 28. See the next paragraph of this letter. 

* " Mr. L 1 " means that the cipher used in this passage is the " Lovell " cipher 

(code " Cupid " ; see no. 555, note 2, ante). In the passage below, " L 1 " at the begin- 
ning has the same significance. Other passages in this letter («. e., all bracketed words) 
are written in the official cipher. 

" Cf. nos. 599, 631, atUe. 

* The context suggests " some measure " ; but there is no cipher between " some " 
and " the ". Madison may have meant some members of Congress. 

^ The resolutions of Oct. 4, which were also issued as a broadside. 

8 The passage relates to Arthur Lee. The " paper of Saturday " to which Madison 
refers was doubtless the Independent Gazetteer; or the Chronicle of Freedom, which con- 
tained in the issue of Oct. 5 a severe denunciation of a delegate in Congress (unnamed) 
for some interference in Pennsylvania politics. It is signed " CIVIS ". Randolph wrote to 
Madison (from Richmond) Nov. 2: " Dr. Lee came to town the day before yesterday, and 
by the last post a very scurrilous account of his having left Phila. for Richmond followed 
him, in one of the newspapers. Does the sacred liberty of the press justify such invectives 
against men in high office? " Library of Congress, Ac. 1081 : Randolph Letters. 



500 Continental Congress 

In [Congress he] has [been frustrated] in several favorite [objects] and 
from the [press he has] been [most rudely] hand [led. The paper] of 
[Saturday is] a [mild sample] of [his sufferings.] Whether the [charge 
upon which] these [attacks are] made [be true or not] 1 cannot [decide.] 
On the first supix)sition, my [feelings would] have been [irritated] into 
a [disavowal] and the [general com]ment [on his silence] shews that 
[prudence would] not have [repressed them.] .... 

643. Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton,^ 

D'r S'r, 

I had written you a long letter the last week but Madison insisting it 
was his turn and that he had done the same and been full on the several 
matters contained in mine I the more readily suppressed it as it wo'd 
throw our correspondence into the regular channel. We have the last 
week no European intelligence of consequence. Our Colleague Mr. Lee 
received a Letter from Mr. Jennings at Brussells dated the 29th of July, 
the latest account I have heard, which says the negociations were not 
suspended, that it was apprehended L'd Shelbourne wo'd not continue 
long in administration as he was universally distrusted, but I fear he has 
so much the confidence and sentiments of his Master, nothing but the 
clamour of the Nation for peace and independence to America, will speed- 
ily produce these events. The same Letter enclosed the Act of the british 
parliament authorizing the King to make peace or truce with the revolted 
Colonies. We had no account of this Law other than that it was on its 
passage through the legislature when our Letters came from Europe and 
it was doubted whether it passed the several branches, but now I think 
it certain that it received the royal assent abt. the 4th July. A report 
prevailed here two days ago that the Marquis was arrived at Boston, a 
confirmation of this (which I do not expect) wo'd leave us witho't doubt 
that the negociations were at an end, or nothing soon expected from them, 
as that young Nobleman remained behind when the baron Viomenil, 
Duke Segur etc. came away, for no other reason than to render his aid 
on the important occasion. The policy of Britain undoubtedly is to re- 
move great part if not the whole of their Troops from the Continent to 
the W. Indies and there make what impression they can on France and 
Spain while they wage offensive interior war agt. us taking care to secure 
their posts in Canada and the Western Country by strong reinforcements 
least we sho'd make attempts that way. Nothing but disagreem't and 
disaster can well prevent the combined fleets in Europe from making im- 
pressions on the british commerce and perhaps finally eflfecting the re- 
duction of Gibraltar as they are much superior to that under L'd Howe. 

The bareness of the last week for news renders the papers uninteresting. 
I have sent you Oswalds w'h contains rather more entertainment than the 
packet.^ 

Phila : 8th Octr. 1782. 

[643]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Jones. 

2 Boudinot wrote to Lewis Pintard Oct. 8 : " We have great Reason to expect the 
Evacuation of Charles Town, but as to New York, it certainly depends on Orders by the 



October, 1/82 601 

644. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton*)/ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 9, 1782. 

Altho your Letter and the Affidavit respecting the Proceedings of the 
Vermonters were presented to Congress as soon as they met, after your 
Express left this Place, and were immediately after being read, committed, 
we have not as yet been able to get a Report from the Committee." This 
delay gives me great uneasiness, as I am sensible of the Necessity of the 
immediate Interposition of the United States for the Relief and Protec- 
tion of the Sufferers, and for the Preservation of Peace in that Country. 
I believe the Delay has been owing more to different sentiments in the 
Committee, than inattention to the Business. Colo. Bland heretofore has 
warmly espoused the Vermont Claim of Independance ; Mr. Middleton 
has uniformly approved it; Mr. Montgomery the third Person of the 
Committee, has I believe lately altered his sentiments on that subject. 
Charles Phelps, Esquire, has had the satisfaction last Evening of being 
heard before the Committee Two or Three Hours, with very little Inter- 
ruption, and laying before them a Number of Affidavits and other Paj^ers 
relative to the Disturbances by the Vermonters, which Affidavits the Com- 
mittee judged to be so important that they did not stop to make a report, 
till they had been read in Congress and referred to them ; this I consented 
to, altho the Report will thereby be delayed one or Two Days. At present 
it is difficult to determine how far Congress will proceed in this Business, 
tho' I cannot but think the Votes of seven States may be obtained to poit 
an End to such violent Proceedings. 

The Back Lands is an object of so great magnitude and Expectation 
that at present it influences the Politicks of almost all the States : it has 
become a serious matter, and unfortunatel>- the States are greatly divided 
on the subject. I much question whether a Vote of Congress could be 
obtained for Accepting the Cession of the State of New York, altho it 
should be agreed there were no Dispute in the Title and in Case the other 
States do not make Cessions of Part of their extensive Territorial Claims, 
the States who have no unappropriated Land will obstruct Measures neces- 
sary to be pursued by the several States, in order to compel some States 
to make such Cessions of Land, as they say they have reason to expect. 
Rhode Island gives this as a Reason why she does not comply with the 
5 pr. Cent Act 



next Packett. We have been amused here these several Days with a Report from New 
York that Rodney with the Jamaica fleet are all taken and that Gibraltar has Capitulated, 
but all this wants Confirmatioti. Will enclose the Papers." Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot 
Papers, II. 106. 

[644P Clinton Papers, VIII. 41. 

2 The reference is to the governor's letter of Sept. i6 and a deposition of Joel 
Bigalow, read in Congress Sept. 23. See the Journals (p. 596 n.), Oct. 10 (p. 645 n.), and 
Oct. 17; also nos. 628, 629, ante, and nos. 645, 651, post. 



502 Continental Congress 

645. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 9th Octob'r, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Being much enga,ged and nothing offering worth your attention I did 
not write to your Excellency by the Post. Mr. L'hommedieu however 
informed you of the State of Vermont Business at that time. Since, Mr. 
Phelps has arrived and I believe his Eloquence will be well employed. 
He has opportunities; his singularity draws attention, and he overflows 
in the plenitude of his Communicative Powers. He is, however, terribly 
distressed ; without Cloaths fit for the season : without money or Credit 
to pay for his board: and leaning on the scanty support which the ex- 
hausted purses of your Delegates can afford. What is to be done for 
him ? I hope your Excellency may be able to remit the supply for which 
I took the Liberty to write ; otherwise I must hasten home. It is my wish 
to wait for Relief as I suppose Col. Hamilton and Col. Floyd will be 
here pretty early in the ensuing month — but propriety must yield to 
necessity 

As soon as I can write to the purpose on the Vermont business I shall 
not fail. In the meantime it would produce little advantage on so beaten 
a subject to trouble your Excellency with Conjectures.^ .... 

646. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 13th, 1782. 
Sir, 

Inclosed herewith your Excellency will receive Several Extracts from 
the minutes of Congress, relative to points highly interesting to the State 
we have the honor to represent. By a Resolution of the loth Instant Rhode 
Island and Georgia are called upon for an immediate and definite Answer 
to the recommendations of Congress respecting an Impost; Upon this 
important Occasion we cannot admit a doubt, That the General Assembly 
will adhere to those Principles of Freedom which Characterize the State, 
and with that wisdom and firmness which have heretofore marked their 
decisions and which reflect the highest honor upon their deliberations.^ 

We cannot omit to assure your Excellency that altho the interesting 
cause of the Western Lands has lately been agitated, and the claimants 
out voted our assiduous endeavors shall not be wanting to renew the 
Question as soon as circumstances shall render it proper. 

As that extensive territory heretofore belonging to the Crown of Britain 
has in right of conquest devolved on the United States, by whose joint 
blood and Treasure the late Revolution has been affected, and as certain 

[645] 1 Clinton Papers, VIII. 43. 

2 See no. 644, ante, and no. 651, post. 
[646]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782 (signed by Arnold and Howell); 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 393. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 10, and nos. 647, 652, 654, post; cf. nos. 620, 621, ante. 



October, iy82 



503 



of these States yet continue their Claims to share it exclusively amongst 
themselves to the prejudice of the Union, We beg leave to submit it to 
the Wisdom and Policy of the General Assembly, whether it will be 
expedient for our State to pass the Impost whereby these same engrossers 
of Land will also be disproportionally benefitted before full Justice shall 
be done us in regard to sd Lands.'' 

To the Extracts above mentioned we have caused the Yeas and nays 
to be annexed, this we think proper to be done on Questions immediately 
affecting the Interests of the State, as thereby the Assembly will be in- 
formed, not only with how great a Majority, and by what States each 
is carried, but also know the particular Opinions of their own Delegates, 
and be enabled to give them such directions and instructions from time 
to time as shall be found necessary. 

If the Assembly should not make a short adjournment, we shall take 
it as a particular Obligation to have a further grant of Money to be 
forwarded in the course of next month. 

We have no news either foreign or domestic worth communicating, 
but what is contained in the Public papers enclosed. 

647. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 15th, 1782. 
Sir, 

On this all important Occasion we cannot be silent.'' A moment re- 
mains before the post sets oflf, the Last which can Arrive at Providence 
before October Sessions of Assembly. 

The object of a seven years war has been to preserve the Liberties of 
this Country, and not to assume into our own hands the power of govern- 
ing tyranically. 

It has been on our part a contest for freedom not for Power ; This has 
been the prize for which we have so nobly contended, This, the goal for 
which our course, so unremittingly pursued has been directed, This the 
sacred Palladium of all our hopes. We know your early, continued, and 
persevering Zeal in your country's cause. We cannot doubt your firmness. 

To quicken your memory, awaken your feelings and to fix your atten- 
tion is the object of this Letter. Congress have demanded of you an 
immediate answer in regard to the Impost, should it be brought on whilst 
the least doubt remains in regard to its propriety, it will be safest to reject 
it. It can afterwards be adopted should evidence finally preponderate in 
its favor, but should it once be adopted, the fatal dye is cast — it is to us 
irrevocable. Let no man therefore Vote in its favor with a single remain- 
ing doubt. For this advice we have a great Authority — " He that doubteth 
is damned if he eat " 

3 See no. 569 (note 3), ante, and no. 658, post. 
[647]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782 (signed by Arnold and Howell); 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 394- 

2 The " all important occasion " which gave rise to this letter was the action of 
Congress Oct. 10 in resolving to call upon Rhode Island for an immediate definitive answer 
with regard to the impost. See no. 646, ante, and nos. 652, 654, 686, 693, 695, 701, 702, post. 



504 Continental Congress 

It applies in this case, precisely. A perpetual grant is demanded of you. 
We say Perpetual, for that it will eventually be such is as clear as the 
Meridian sun. It is to be granted to Congress until all their debts are 
paid. They have power to contract as many debts as they please, and are not 
to account with you for their Conduct. Will not half pay, pensions, 
and other Pretexts, perpetually involve you deeper and deeper in Debt, 
and render it still more necessary to continue this grant, to perpetuity 
than it is to make it in the first Instance. Consult the voice of Nature, 
consult the Histories of Mankind, Nay consult your own experience and 
give an answer, and let that answer govern your Vote on this Occasion. 

This being the case permit us. Sir, to demand of you, What right you 
have to make a perpetual grant of money ? Will not succeeding Assemblies 
discover that you have invaded their rights? Will not posterity complain 
that you have given away their Money, which on every principle of the 
present Revolution they would be entitled to do themselves? Will not 
future Assemblies and Posterity be equally entitled to Judge and determine 
as to the mode of granting their money, as the present? No Rhetoric 
but that of Power, no reason but the ultima ratio regum, will be able 
to evince the Contrary. 

Should the present deputies vote themselves perpetual, what injuries 
could the public sustain, but those which would result from their measures 
being perpetually pursued without the chance of a Change for the better 
by succeeding elections. But if the present Deputies can by a vote make 
their measures Perpetual, they in fact do the same injury to the public as 
they would by voting themselves Perpetual and eventually frustrate the 
ends of all future elections. 

Is not this a bold attack on the Liberties of the People at I>arge? 

After Congress shall have obtained a Perpetual permanent revenue at 
their disposal, will it not be a Temptation to that August body, after the 
Example of Holland, either to vote themselves Perpetual, or to apply to 
the States for such a Grant. And should such an Application be acceded 
to by a Majority of the States, is it Credible that our little State would 
have virtue and firmness sufficient to oppose the demands? Would it 
not be in the power of Congress, having the perpetual Revenue at their 
disposal, and having the Command of your Armies and navys to block 
up your Harbors, and bring war into your State ? Could not your neigh- 
bouring States, lay duties and embargos on your trade? But, we hear 
some minion of Power reply. You are excessively Jealous, you are 
aflfrighted at nothing. We answer a degree of Jealousy is necessary, where 
it is extinguished Liberty expires. Did not similar Jealousies bring about 
the present glorious revolution? Did America resist the power of Britain 
to avoid only three pence on a pound of Tea, or was it their Claims, their 
unlimited claims and the tendency of their Measures, was it not rather 
Oppression and violence Apprehended and which existed in our well 
grounded fears and reasonable Jealousy that brought on the present war, 
than the great weight of Present Injuries ? 

A system was formed which, if carried into effect, and it would have 
been by degrees, would have deprived us of all that is valuable in Life. 



i 



October, 1782 505 

This approach of tyranny was resisted, and with good reason, and hitherto 
by the blessing of Heaven with good success. Tyranny is to be resisted 
most easily and effectually in its first approaches, and at a distance. When 
its Standard is planted it will have numerous adherents, and power to 
IDTOtect and gratify them. 

Should the impost be adopted, a numerous train of Officers concerned 
in the Collection and after management of the revenue, The Tribes of 
half -pay Officers, Pensioners, and public creditors whose number and 
influence might be increased from time to time at the Pleasure of Congress 
would enlarge, extend and increase their power, and soon induce the 
necessity of pursuing the remaining parts of the Plan, by adopting the 
Land Tax, the Poll Tax, and the Excise. After which the bond of Union, 
to use the phrase of the Advocates of these Measures, would be complete. 
And we will add the Yoke of Tyranny fixed on all the states, and the 
Chains Rivotted. 

The great System of Government is established by the confederation. 
This was a work of time and great Wisdom. The Eighth Article points 
out the method of Ascertaining the Quotas of the States in all Pecuniary 
Requisitions. The Eqtdty and Justice of the mode is not contested. 

But is it said, Annual Taxation in this mode does not give sufficient 
security to the public Creditors. In reply it may be observed that this was 
all the security they had a Right to expect when they become creditors, 
of the Public. This was the Ancient and only approved method of Raising 
money before the Confederation was adopted. The Creditors therefore 
who trusted the i>ublic before that period, have no right to demand a 
greater security for it was not promised them, in the Contract. And by 
the Sixth and ninth articles of Confederation, the power of imposing 
duties is expressly retained by the States in their individual Capacities : 
The Public creditors therefore cannot claim a right to a Continental im- 
|K)st, as a security for their Money, in virtue of the Confederation, which 
in so many words, would entirely blast all hopes of that kind had they 
been previously indulged. On what ground then can they demand greater 
seairity than they have by annual Taxation? On none whatever. They 
ought however to be paid, and we make no doubt they will be paid, to 
the extent of their Just demands and that in a Continental way, and no 
other. 

But it is further said, the impost is necessary to give us further Credit, 
and to procure Loans — the contrary is the fact. We have drawn from 
Europe by loans or gratuity already Thirty seven Millions of Silver, and 
a large loan is now negotiating there and has in part succeeded, and will 
no doubt be filled up, without the security of Mortgaging an Impost, or 
any promise of the kind. Posterity instead of regretting that our Credit 
was not better established, will rather admire at its extent when they feel 
the weight of the burthen thereby transmitted down upon them. 

It is not necessary therefore to enable us to procure loans abroad, but 
rather to be avoided on that Account, as a temptation to incur an extrava- 
gant foreign debt, and endangering a more lavish expenditure of Public 
moneys. On what footing then is the measure necessary? No plighted 
36 



606 Continental Congress 

faith requires it; no reasons of Finance can induce it, no policy of State 
can Justify, no principle of our Constitution can warrant it. 

The glorious fabric of Freedom erected in this new world, is the ad- 
miration of all Civilized Nations. May it long remain unimpaired ! The 
structure of its several parts deserves attention and constitutes its sym- 
metry and elegance. The weight of Congress rests and bears only on the 
several States. The States bear only on the several Counties, in some 
States, and the Counties on the Towns, and in others the States bear 
immediately on the Towns, and the Towns in all on the Individuals — the 
broad basis of power, which reared and supports the whole fabric. 

The impost would break in upon this beautiful proportion, and empower 
Congress by their Own Officers, to bear with their own weight directly 
on Individuals. This would disturb the general Harmony, derange the 
elegant proportion and endanger the welfare of the whole building. 

The Continental Treasury is to be supplied from the several States 
agreeable to Article 8th, by successive Requisitions. When a new Requi- 
sition is made, the purposes for which it is to be Appropriated, are to be 
pointed out to you, and it is to be accompanied with particular Estimates. 
You are at the same time to be informed what has been done, with your 
last Quota, and on a full consideration of the Representations so made to 
you, you are to grant your money like freemen, from time to time, bound 
only, as a sovereign and Independent State, by your sentiments of Justice, 
of virtue and by your sacred honor. This is the voice of the Con- 
federation. 

We shall not on this Occasion repeat the well known objections against 
the measure. That it would instead of lessening increase the public bur- 
thens of the Country by the additional expenses of numerous Tribes of 
Officers concerned in the Revenue ; that Congress are not to account for 
the Amount or Expenditure of it ; that it would draw a larger Proportion 
of the public debt from us, as a Commercial State and as Consuming in 
Consequence a larger proportion of Imposts [sic^ , than any other State ; 
that it would not be equal between Individuals, bearing harder on the poor 
and labourious, who are the strength of a State, upon those who have 
large families, and add to the Strength of the State by increasing its 
Subjects ; that it would require a Military force to execute it, and bring 
in Standing Armies; that our Coast must be lined with Cutters, Guarda 
Costas Gallies, etc., to prevent running goods; that it would multiply 
Oaths and bring on depravity of Manners, etc., etc. ; that a proportionate 
share of the back Lands, is unjustly withheld from us, and finally that 
the Measure would not, under all these Embarrassments, be productive 
of, or afford, any considerable Revenue. These objections are not only 
well founded but so notorious, we shall not dwell on them, but conclude 
by Observing that a measure, agst. which so many objections lie, and with 
so much weight, and which when once adopted cannot be revoked, ought 
not to be adopted at all. To adopt it partially and on Condition, as some 
States have done would discover an Aversion to the measure mixed with 
fear of declaring real Sentiments. It is a Measure which must be adopted 
entire or not at all. 



October, 1782 507 

We cannot doubt but the measure will be postponed, or finally rejected 
by a large Majority of the Virtuous and Patriotic Legislature of Our 
State, which has from its first Settlement preserved its Liberties entire, 
been foremost in the present Glorious Revolution, and by a decided 
Opinion on this important Occasion, will preserve the Liberties of the 
United States and transmit them to Posterity, and thereby enact to them- 
selves a Monument more durable than brass. 

648. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

[October 15, 1782.] ' 

We have your Excellency's Letter of the 5th with the inclosures which 
shall be lodged at the office of foreign affairs to be forwarded by separate 
conveyances as you desire, the inclosed is from this office. We also trans- 
mit your Excellency an extract of a Letter from S'r Guy Carlton to 
General Washington, in consequence of the apprehension and bringing 
to tryal in New Jersey a Citizen of that State who had taken arms agt. 
his Country, the latter part of it corroborates the intelligence lately trans- 
mitted us by General Washington from Canada and which we communi- 
cated to your Excellency, and gives us reason to hope the Indian ravages 
on our frontier will for awhile at least be suspended. 

We have the honor to be with respect yr. Excelly's. Obt. Hbe svts. 

J. Madison Jr. 
Jos: Jones. 

649. James Madison to Edmund Ranidolph.^ 

Philada. Oc'r 15th, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

The offensive paragraph in the correspondence of Mr. L. with Mr. 
P. spoken of in your favor of the 5th, was as you supposed communicated 
to me by Mr. Jones. I am however but very imperfectly informed of it." 

[648] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 That this letter was probably written Oct. 15 is indicated by the following facts: 
all the contents of the letter relate to events at the end of September and the beginning 
of October, and the last sentence in particular refers definitely to the delegates' letter of 
Oct. I (no. 635, ayite) ; the governor's letter of the sth would normally arrive about the 
14th, Monday ; the delegates were accustomed to write every Tuesday, and there are 
letters of Oct. i, 8, and 22. The governor's letter of Oct. 5 is missing, therefore there is no 
clue to the enclosures referred to. 

[649]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 244 (part) ; Papers, 
I. 181 (part). 

2 -phe reference is to a letter from Arthur Lee to Mann Page. Randolph wrote to 
Madison Oct. S : " Mr. Jones has, no doubt, communicated to you a letter, which he 
received from Mr. Mercer, respecting a passage in Dr. Lee's correspondence with Mr. Page. 
It is thought of and spoken of with much severity by some. But I cannot conceive, that 
the clamor, which has been excited is commensurate with the cause. It may produce events, 
fit for communication at a future day." Library of Congress, Ac. 1081 : Randolph Letters. 



608 Continental Congress 

We have not yet reed, a second volume of the negociations at Versailles ; 

8 

Our friend McCIurg has been here some days reconnoitreing the ground 
on which he has been invited to build his future fortunes. His mind seems 
to be so equally divided that I cannot yet discover what his final determina- 
tion will be. If the immediate sacrifices were less inconvenient to his 
finances, he would I fancy without hesitation embrace the prospect here.* 

Lovel ° — on a motion of [Bland a committee] was not long [since 
ap]point[ed to enquire into] the [detention of the money] and [cloathing 
ordered] from [Holland in Gillons ship] by [Col. Laurens.] The report 
on the subject which was [drawn by Bland] is [one of the most signal 
monuments] which [party zeal has produced.] By [mutilating and dis- 
colouring] facts in the [most shameless manner] it [loaded Franklin] 
with the whole [guilt and] proposed finally a [severe reprehension of] 
him. This [unfair] hostility did [not meet with] the [expected] counte- 
nance [of congress.] After being considerably [exposed a recommitment 
took place] with [an addition to the committee.] 

The States which [covet the back lands] are by no means satisfied with 
^ the present [prospect of being gratified.] It is in [contemplation], I am 
told [to renew the attempt] for a fresh [recommendation] on this subject. 
Unless a [clause excluding the companies be annexed Virginia] will of 
course [oppose the measure.] I am [not sanguine however] that the 
[opposition] will be [effectual,] There are not [a few members] and 

Edmund Pendleton wrote to Madison Oct. 14 : " Nothing can equal the generosity of our 
ally ; which is as permanent as it is beneficial ; one would suppose the late instance would 
inspire every American breast with the warmest gratitude, yet I am told that a letter 
lately written to this country by Dr. Lee, contains sentiments very diflferent and makes 
much noise in the State, to his disadvantage not to that of the alliance " (Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Proceedings, second ser., XIX. 163). Referring to the matter in a letter to Joseph Jones 
Oct. 21, Pendleton remarks: "Justice to the Dr. requires that I should thus early declare 
I have since had a particular account of that letter, and find the clamor was without 
foundation" (ibid., p. 164). Then, in a letter to Madison Oct. 28 he says: "Our Legis- 
lature .... seem out of humor, and talk of impeachments of the executive, and of 
censures on Dr. L. The name of that gentleman constrains me once more to say that tho' 
I was misinformed as to the first account of his letter, yet I was equally or perhaps more 
so, in the account I mentioned to Mr. Jones, tho' I had it from a gentleman I thought I 
could depend on" (ibid., p. 165). Randolph wrote to Madison Oct. 26, "Reformations 
are talked of in every department and scrutinies are to be instituted with the fervor of 
republican jealousy ". Then, on Nov. 8 he wrote, " I have my suspicion, that attempts are 
in agitation to shake the seat of the g — v — r ". After some further remarks upon this sub- 
ject he proceeds to relate (largely in cipher) the action of the Virginia legislature in the 
matter of Arthur Lee's letter to Mann Page. The subject is continued (principally in 
cipher) in letters of Dec. 10, 20, and 27. In the latter he remarks. " His defence [was 
pathetic] ". Governor Harrison wrote to the delegates Nov. 23, "An inquirey is order'd 
into the conduct of a (gentleman who is said to have written a Letter to his Friend here 
which is thought to be imprudent if no worse, what the issue will be Time must discover " 
(Official Letters, III. 385). In the sequel Lee was cleared of "all suspicions of inimical 
designs to this State, or America in general ". See ibid., p. 385 n. 

3 Madison mentions the receipt of a letter from Carmichael, " dated about the 
middle of June" (presumably the letter of June 12, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 488), 
then quotes an extract from a letter of Sir Guy Carleton to Washington Sept. 12, on which 
he makes this comment, " It would seem, from this paragraph, that the insidious object of 
a separate convention with America was still pursued ". 

* See no. 695, post. 

»That is, the Lovell cipher is here used. In the next paragraph the words in 
square brackets are written in the official cipher. 



October, 1782 509 

some of them too not the least [respectable] who altho' unfriendly to 
[the companies dislike] such a [condition as being unnecessary to Virginia 
and dishonorable to Congress.] .... 

650. David Howell to John Carter.^ 

[October 16, 1782.] 

This Day Letters have been read in Congress from Mr. Adams, of 
the i6th of August, and from Mr. Dumas, his Secretary, of the 19th. 
The Loan he is negociating fills as fast as could be expected. The Dutch 
are very friendly. They will not accede to the Proposals of the British 
for a separate Peace; but resolve, in all Events, to act in Concert with 
France and the United States. 

Fitzherbert's Commission enables him to treat with his Most Christian 
Majesty's Minister, and those oj any other Princes or States concerned, 
without naming the United States. The States of the Low Countries 
have sent a Minister to Paris, to meet Fitzherbert and the other Com- 
missioners to treat for Peace in Behalf of the belligerent Powers. Spain 
will accede to no Treaty which shall not cede Gibraltar to his Catholic 
Majesty. 

Some of the States of Holland have consented to the Treaty of Amity 
and Commerce proposed to them by Mr. Adams. Another Northern 
Power has solicited the Friendship and Trade of the United States ; and 
a similar Treaty may be expected soon to take Place there. 

Our foreign Affairs are in a good Train. The national Importance of 
the United States is constantly rising in the Estimation of European 
Powers, and the civilized World. Such is their Credit, that they have 
of late failed in no Application for foreign Loans — and the only Danger 
on that Score is that of contracting too large a Debt. Instead of regretting 
that our Credit was no better established, by an Impost, or permanent 
Revenue to be mortgaged for the Purpose. Posterity, when they feel the 
Weight of Debt thereby transmitted on them, will admire at its Extent, 
and rejoice it went no further.' 

651. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of 
New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Oct: 16, 1782. 
Sir, 

By the last Post I informed Your Excellency that notwithstanding our 
Importunity we had not been able to get a Report from the Committee 
on the Vermont Business." Delays have since been made. The Committee 

[6soV Proz'idence Gazette, Nov. 2, 1782 ("Extract of a Letter from a Gentleman in 
Philadelphia to his Friend in this Town, dated October 16") ; Boston Gazette, Nov. 10, 
1782. 

- For the proceedings in Congress to which the publication of this letter gave rise 
see the Journals, Dec. 6, 12, 17, 18, Madison's Notes of Debates for the same days (Journals. 
XXIII. 863, 867, 868), and nos. 701, 702, 707, 714, 715, 718, 722, post. 

[651 ]i N. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4809 (addressed, " His Excellency George 
Clinton Esquire Governor of the State of New York Poughkipsie"). 
2 See no. 644, ante. 



510 Continental Congress 

moved for an Addition of Members, as Mr. Middleton was about leaving 
the City and could not attend ; Mr. CaroU, Doctor Witherspoon and Colo. 
Dyer w^ere chosen and a Report was brought in and read this morning, 
a Copy of which is inclosed ; ^ and altho it is far from giving that im- 
mediate Releif and Protection to the Sufferers which I had reason to 
beleive was agreable to the sentiments of the first Committee, yet con- 
sidering the Complection of the Present, at lea[s]t the majority, who 
have been advocates for the Vermont Independence, we could not expect 
much more. They say 'tis in vain to keep the Peace of that Country, 
till the great Question is determined respecting their Claims, which De- 
termination ought to be immediately made, but I fear under this Colour 
of Tactics the Decision will from Time to Time be postponed, and the 
unhappy Sufferers in Cumberland left to the mercy of their Enemies. 
I hope my fears are groundless, and that a speedy Decision of the Con- 
troversy, agreable to the Resolutions of the 24th of Sept. 1779 will take 
place, I am under no apprehensions at present that a Vote of Nine States 
could be obtained in favour of the Vermont Claims of Independence, even 
if it could be supposed that Nine States had a Right by the Confederation 
to make a New State in the Present Case; Yet it is doubtful, whether 
Seven States will join in opposing that Claim and desiding agreable to 
the aforesaid Resolutions, which I think is the only consistant Principle 
Congress can act upon at Present. I shall do myself the Honour of com- 
municating to your Excellency by the first Conveyance the Progress that 
is made in this Business,* and am with the utmost Respect 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient and very Humble Servt 

Ezra LHommedieu. 

P. S. we have no News except what is contained in the News Papers 
herewith inclosed. 

652. David Howell to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia 18 Octob. 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I am happy to find the present members of Congress men of 
Super iour abilities to what I had conceived. Some men of great learning 
are among their number ; little of my assistance is required. 

The affairs of the U'd States are at this day so well digested and re- 
duced to such good order and System under the Heads of the great 
Departments, The army so well officered and disciplined that, foreign 
affairs excepted, little remains to be done but executive business. The 
ways and means of supplying the Treasury at present engrosses our 

8 The report appears to have been brought in Oct. 15 and read Oct. 17 (see the 
Journals, p. 664 n.). The committee appointed Sept. 23 was Middleton, Montgomery, and 
Bland. Oct. 10 these papers were referred to the committee to whom had been referred 
the Phelps memorial, namely, Montgomery, Bland, Carroll, Dyer, and Witherspoon (see 
the Journals, pp. 596 n., 645 n., 664 n.). See further the Journals, Nov. 5, 14. 

* See nos. 661, 662, 666, 669, 671, 673, post. 
[652]! From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 



October, 1/82 511 

attention, could that be effected in Season it would facilitate every 
operation. 

As to arrangements in Finance a report from that office proposes, in 
addition to the 5 pr. cent. Impost, a Land tax of i Doll. pr. 100 Acres, 
a Capitation of i Doll. pr. Pole, and an Excise of 1/8 Doll'r pr. Gallon 
on all ardent Spirits. The net proceeds of each estimated at 500,000 
Dollars, would furnish a revenue of 2,000,000 pr. Annum. ^ 

It is to be regretted that in the actual State of our affairs an accurate 
Statement of our national debt is unattainable. It is estimated as follows. 
Vis. Foreign debt 5 millions : Funded debt bearing intrest twelve millions. 
Unsettled accounts with the Army, etc. including Staff-officers certificates 
about 8 millions. In all thirty millions. The intrest of which sum would 
be 1,800,000, something less than the annual revenue abovementioned. 

But Congress are not armed with power by the Confederation to carry 
into effect these propositions ; they can only recommend them to the States. 
Their requisitions for money must all be made agreeably to Article 8th 
of the Confederation. Out of these four propositions, the Impost alone 
has been recomended ; the others meeting with obstructions in Congress. 
It has been adopted by eleven States, tho' with restrictions, limitations 
and Conditions in some States : Rhode Island and Georgia have as yet 
transmitted no acts of their Legislatures on the Subject. In Consequence. 
Congress have passed an act requiring an immediate and definitive answer 
of them on the Subject. October Session will produce one no doubt from 
our State. This is an affair of great expectation. The public creditors 
are open mouthed against us. Our State would more readily admit it could 
they reserve to themselves the appointment of the revenue officers, and 
have the amount thereof raised in our State pass to our particular credit.^ 

In the mean time, while these measures are suspended in this Situation, 
it being of the utmost importance to the public credit that intrest should 
be punctually paid, particularly on the funded debt, a tax of 1,200.000 
Dollars is quotaed to the several States and ordered to be paid in to 
defray the intrest of our domestic debt for the current year. 

By the estimates adopted six millions are allowed for 1783. two millions 
will be required in way of Tax ; the remainder will be solicited in Europe 
by way of Loan. Mr. Adams is negotiating in Holland a Loan of 5 millions 
Guilders on the following terms. 5 pr. Cent, annual intrest. 2^ pr. Cent 
to the Society of mercantile Houses, the undertakers, in full for procuring 
the money of the lenders the principal is to remain fixed 10 years : then 
to be paid in five equal, yearly payments, One pr. Cent, on the intrest for 
receiving and paying it out yearly. More than one million was filled last 
June and there was a good prospect of its being filled by our last advice. 
Congress have resolved to make application for four millions Dollars in 
addition.* But perhaps I am relating things well known. 

You will be informed of the result of the late meeting of Comissioners 
for establishing a general Cartel — no other will be consented to. 

- The report of the superintendent of finance, dated July 29, is in the Journals, 
Aug. 5. See further ibid., Aug. 30, Sept. 4, 6, 25 ; cf. nos. 572, 583, 6oi5, 611, ante. 

3 See nos. 646. 647, ante, no. 654, post. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 4. 10, 14, 18,. 25, 28, Oct. i, 10, 16, 18; also no. 622, note 2, 
ante, and nos. 654, 655, 658, post. 



512 Continental Congress 

By the resolves of Congress you will see they have endeavoured to 
guard the people against the insidious views of the Enemy. ° My official 
Letters to the State will discover that I never yet conceived the British 
Cabinet sincerely disposed to establish peace on honorable terms. Their 
necessities crouded hard before Rodney's aflfair in the W. Indies 

653. Thomas Smith to the Pennsylvania Council,* 

Gentlemen, 

By a resolution which is just now passed, General Washington is at 
liberty to continue or abandon the Post at Wioming. as he shall judge 
most for the public good, the former resolution on that subject notwith- 
standing — indeed the former resolution was optional with the General ; 
But from his Letter on this subject, I have good reason to believe that 
the Continental Troops will be withdrawn, unless a representation is made 
to the General of the apparently pernicious consequences of such a measure. 

I objected to any new resolution being passed at present. 

I. Because it was not necessary, the former resolution leaving the 
matter to the discretion of the General. 

2dly. Because Harmony subsisted at present between the two contend- 
ing States of Pennsylvania and Connecticut, which had not been inter- 
rupted since these troops were stationed there; But if they were with- 
drawn, either the one Party or the other might get the exclusive Possession 
of the Post, and then it would be easy for the Party in Possession to raise 
obstacles to the decision of the dispute, and procrastinate it to a dangerous 
length, and I venture [d] to predict that this would be done or at least 
attempted, and even should it be decided notwithstanding all attempts 
which might be made to prevent a determination and that determination 
should be against the Party in Possession, I dreaded the Consequences. 

3dly, That this Post was the Keystone of protection to a great extent 
of the frontiers of Pennsylvania, and I was so unfortunate as to be de- 
cidedly of an opinion directly the reverse of that of the General, respecting 
the peaceable disposition of the Indians — and may Heaven grant that the 
event may prove my want of judgment on this point! and that counter- 
manding the Expeditions may be followed by salutary effects! 

I give Council this information in order that, if they are of opinion 
there is any weight in my sentiments, they may make such representations 
to the General as they shall judge the good of the State may require. There 
is perhaps a necessity for removing the Troops there at Present, if they 
are so undisciplined and their conduct so irregular and unmilitary as 
represented ; but that operates only as a reason for their being replaced 
by others and not for evacuating the Post. The Council will, I hope, 
(excuse my officiousness on this occasion and ascribe it to my anxiety for 
the Peace of the frontiers.^ 

Octr. 1 8th, 1782. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 4. 
1653]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Provincial Delegates, III. 108; Pa. Arch., first sen, IX. 652. 
*See the Journals, Oct. 18; also Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 653, 656; cf. no. 616, 
ante. 



October, 1782 613 

654. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 

Rhode Island (Wh^liam Greene)/ 

Philadelphl\ Octr. 19th, 1782. 
Sir, 

Inclosed you will recieve two Resolutions of Congress for raising 
Monies from the States, and the proportions in which the same is assigned 
to each State, it appears thereby, that the proportion to our State is 
lessened as from a 37th to about 41 and 3/4 — a greater diminution 
could not be obtained.^ 

Your Excellency will find in the Resolutions of yesterday a clause which 
we thought it our duty to oppose, on the following grounds. 

Because, As by the Laws of the State the Collectors in the several Towns 
are vested with power, and it is their duty to collect all Taxes as well 
Continental as others, it would operate to prevent persons from Accepting 
that office; and thereby embarrass, and greatly affect the Internal police 
of the State. 

Because, it would in part supercede, in Office, one of the general Officers 
of the State, and essentially interfere with the duties of his Office. 

Because, it would create a New Office in the State, unknown in its 
Constitution, of foreign Appointment, Independent of the people, and 
over whose conduct, neither the Legislative nor Executive Authority of 
the State would have any Controul. 

Because it would, in its operation and tendency be repugnant to the 
Letter and Spirit of the Confederation — particularly the latter clause of 
the Eighth Article. 

We submit the justice, force and propriety of these objections to the 
Wisdom of the Assembly, not doubting they will, on this and every similar 
Occasion, pursue their public measures in such manner as shall effectually 
check the oblique and covert, as well as the direct and open approaches 
of Despotism 

655. Eliphalet Dyer to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octob'r 19th, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Your Excellency was acquainted that Congress had resolved to 
recommend to the several States to raise their respective quotas of 12,0000 
l>ir] dollars, in order to pay the past interest of all the publick debts or 
loan or which might be adjusted and setled in America, as the only means 
to revive the sinking credit of these United States, and the drooping 
spirits of thousands in distress for their principal, or at least for a se- 

[654] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782-1783, p. 30 (signed by Arnold and 
Howell). 

- See the Journals. Oct. i6, i8, and no. 652, ante, no. 655, post. In the apportion- 
ment of 8,000,000 dollars Nov. 2, 1781, Rhode Island's quota was 216,684, or about 1/37 
part of the whole ; in the apportionment of Oct. 18, 1782, that state's quota of 2 000,000 
dollars was 48,000 or exactly 1/41I part of the whole. 

[655]^ Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., III. 387. 



514 Continental Congress 

curity of the interest, by which means the principal might become of some 
value to them, which was depreciating with the greatest velocity: the 
intrest on the first loans is stopd in France. Congress have since agreed 
to recommend to the several States to raise by a tax to the amount of 
two millions of dollars more towards the expenditures of the ensuing 
year, having reduced it as low as possible with an expectation that the 
further sum necessary will be procured on loan; the first, to be raised 
for the payment of intrest, is to be applied in the State to such of their 
inhabitants as have debts and interest due thereon, an estimate of the 
proportion as adjusted on that sum I enclosed in a letter to Mr. Sherman ; 
of the last 2 million I have enclosed with this. On these I have to lament 
that it was not in the power of your deligates to have justice done the 
State in their proportion of these sums to be raised, notwithstanding our 
utmost efforts and exertions therein. It is well known I am warm, im- 
petuous and persevering, Mr. Huntington cool, steady and judicious ; our 
joint indeavours were not wanting, but in vain, it is said Connecticut 
are a rich, flourishing and frugal people, they have great advantages, they 
must pay now, and when the estimates are made, agreable to the Articles 
of Confederation, all shall be put right : but however they were informed 
that tho we wished not to have Connecticut out of resentment withold 
what was right, yet they might depend upon it, when all was done, she 
would do justice to her self, as well as her sister States and to raise no 
more of those sums than her proportion, with whom she was well able 
to compare herself and judge with equity.* .... 

656. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Oc'r 226. 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . ." The Secr'y at War lately communicated to Congress an extract 
of a letter from Genl. Washington of a [very unwelcome tenor]. It 
[paints the discontents of the army in very unusual colours], and [sur- 
mises some dangerous eruption] unless [a payment can be effected within 
the present year]. The Secy, is gone to Head Quarters at the request of 
[the General]. How [far their joint precautions will calm the rising 
billows] must be [left to the result] .'.... 

2 Cf. nos. 652, 654, ante. 
[656]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 (original and copy) ; Writings. 
I. 246; Papers, I. 182. 

- The first part of this letter relates to Adams's letter of Aug. 18 and quotes a 
" skeleton of the commission " of Fitzherbert. See no. 657, post. Following the remarks 
upon Adams's letter, and preceding the passage given here, is a passage not included in the 
printed texts (it is partly in cipher), in which Madison comments somewhat caustically 
on Dana's letter of June 28 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 528). "As a sample", Madison 
remarks, " of his [competency to the subject] I subjoin the following paragraph " ; and he 
quotes the passage in Dana's "Reflections" (p. 529) beginning, "Besides, how is Russia 
paid for her productions and manufactures ? " "As a sample ", he continues, " of [his 
political talents] here is another " ; and he quotes the first paragraph of Dana's letter. 

8 Washington's letter to the secretary at war (Benjamin Lincoln), dated Oct. 2, 
is in Writings (ed. Ford), X. 90, (ed. Sparks), VIIL 353. 

In a closing paragraph (not in the printed text) Madison speaks of the illness of Joseph 
Jones, then adds : " Col : Bland has also been in the list of Valetudinarians. He is at 
present out of Town, having made an excursion for the benefit of exercise and of country 
air." Bracketed words are written in the official cipher. 



1 



October, 1782 515 

657. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton/ 

Philada. Oc'r 22d, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

The address of your favor of the 14th instant to me coincides with 
the order which Mr. Jones and myself had settled.^ It would have been 
the more inconvenient too for him to have had his turn this week, as the 
dregs of his late indisposition are working themselves off to his no small 
disturbance. His lady seems now to be pretty well restored. 

The Vessel, whose arrival at Boston was I suppose mentioned last week 
by Mr. Jones, brought Congress a letter from Mr. Adams dated Hague 
Aug: 1 8th. Inclosed in it was a copy of a Plenipotentiary Commission 
issued July 24 to Mr. Fitzherbert who succeeds Mr. Grenville. This 
Gentleman has been for some time the British Minister at Brussels, and 
possesses I understand no talents for the management of serious and 
intricate negociations. His commission like the late act of Parliament is 
a child of Shelburne's policy and will suit any events which the war may 
produce. It authorizes him to Treat and conclude a peace at the Court 
of his M. C. Majesty with the Plenipotentiaries as well of the High and 
Mighty Lords the States General of the United Provinces, as of whatso- 
ever Princes and States it may concern, and as well singly and separately, 
as collectively and conjointly. The States General had also appointed a 
Plenipotentiary who was to set out for Paris shortly after the date of 
Mr. Adams' letter. These are all the circumstances with which we are 
furnished relative to the business of a pacification. Unless Mr. Adams 
has written more fully by abortive conveyances it would seem as if the 
prospect was not very flattering to his expectations.^ 

The States of Holland and West Friesland had determined on the 
commercial Treaty proposed to them and Mr. Adams expected to have 
a speedy conference with the States General in order to bring it to a 
conclusion. 

Congress have reduced the estimate for the ensuing year to about 
6 Million of Dollars ; and the requisition on the States in the first instance 
to 2 Million. A call for the residue is to be suspended untill the result 
of their application for loans shall be known. 

We have as yet no account of the actual evacuation of Charlestown. 
From N. York we have no intelligence that deserves credit, of any sort. 



[657]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Madison Papers. 

2 Pendleton's letter of Oct. 14 is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, second ser., 

XIX. 163. 

3 A letter of the same date from the delegates to Governor Harrison is in Va. State 
Lib., Executive Papers (given in abstract in Cal. Va. State Papers, HL 352), and con- 
tains a briefer account of this matter. The letter from Madison to Randolph of which an 
extract is given ante (no. 656) quotes a "skeleton of the commission" (in Latin) to 
Fitzherbert. Adams's letter of Aug. 18, enclosing Fitzherbert's commission, is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 665, but the commission is not there printed. Cf. no. 650, ante, no. 
660, post. 



616 Continental Congress 

658. The North Carolina Delegates to the Govkrnor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin)/ 

Philadelphia, 22nd October, 1782. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The great subject that has for some months drawn the attention 
of Congress is the means of supporting Public Credit and raising a supply 
for the expences of the next year and paying the deficiencies of the present 
year. 

We have called the subject of supply a great one, because it is em- 
phatically such with us, since we have little to fear from the Military 
force of the enemy who are decidedly inferior in the field and must con- 
tinue so while we can pay, feed and cloath our Army, and never was an 
army worse paid than they have been and are, to say nothing of the 
cloaths and rations. 

No Citizen of North America will be surprised at this assertion when 
he looks over the estimate for the expences of the year and considers how 
small a portion of that sum we have actually paid or borrowed. 

Congress have agreed for the next year to attempt to borrow on France 
or Holland Five Millions of Dollars. We expect to borrow at five per cent, 
per annum. The Brokerage and other exp>ences will raise the Interest 
per year to 6 per cent. Some Gentlemen think that we should attempt to 
raise larger Taxes at home in order to be relieved from the expence of 
Foreign Interest." We admit that, for our parts, we have been decidedly 
in favour of borrowing. The peculiar quality of our staple and the scarcity 
of money in North Carolina, we think, will justify our conduct. We 
contend that we are sufficiently rich to deserve Credit, tho' we are at 
present unable to pay Taxes because Tar, Pitch, Turpentine, Lumber. 
Indian Corn and the other general staples of North Carolina are too bulky 
to bear transportation in the time of War. In time of Peace all those 
articles may be very acceptable to either of the Nations that may lend 
us money. We apprehend that in time of Peace it would be more con- 
venient for the Citizens of North Carolina in general to pay one Guinea 
than at present to pay one Dollar. We hope that our Constituents will 
at least approve the loan, knowing how difficult it would be for them to 
pay a Specie Tax of the twentieth part of their Quota for the annual 
expences of the War. 

It is a fact, not to be dissembled, that the different States are not fully 
agreed as to the best and most eligible means of funding and paying off 
the annual supply. The smaller States and some of the larger ones are 
extremely desirous to do something with the back-lands. Their eyes are 
so eagerly fixed on those forests that they seem to stumble over the more 
obvious and productive subjects of Revenue which are nearer at hand. 
To this hour the State of Rhode Island have not adopted the 5 per cent, 
duty. They object that such a Tax is not according to the Confederation, 
while they contend for a participation of the Western lands which is con- 
trary to the express terms of Confederation.^ 

[658]! iV, C. State Recs., XVI. 434 (signed by Williamson and Blount). 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 14, and no. 621, ante. 

3 See no. 652, ante. 



October, 1782 517 

In our public Letter No. 6, August i8th,* we mentioned the Western 
Lands and expressed our opinion that these lands might enable us to pay 
off a great part of the State debt or such debts as have been contracted 
for Militia service in the State. As no mention is made of the Western 
Lands in any of the requisitions that are now forwarded to the General 
Assembly, it becomes necessary that we should explain why we turned 
your attention to those Lands. 

The subject of Revenue was at first submitted to a Committee of thir- 
teen, being a member from each State, and after much deliberation and 
debate they reported : 

1st. That the Western I^nds, if ceded to the United States, might 
contribute towards a fund for paying the debts of those States. 

2nd. That it be recommended to the several States to impose a Land 
Tax of one Dollar on every one hundred Acres of Land. 

3rd. That they also impose a Poll Tax of half a Dollar on all male 
slaves from 16 to 60 and all free men from 16 to 21 and a Dollar on all free 
men from 2 1 to 60 except those in the Federal Army, etc. 

4th. That an excise be laid on all distilled Spiritous Liquors of one- 
eighth of a Dollar for every gallon. 

We had no such high exi^ectations as some of the Committee concerning 
the productive value of the Western Lands, nor did we think that the 
States at large had any claims on them. The Land Tax of one Dollar per 
hundred Acres was, in our view, insufferably unequal. The vast tracts 
of sandy barren land in North Carolina can never be measured with the 
same scale as the uniformly fertile Lands in some of the Northern States. 
We shall make no remark on the other articles. There was a clear majority 
of the Committee in favor of the report, on which occasion we wrote the 
Letter referred to. 

However, when the report was taken up by Congress, every part of 
it which resi)ected the subjects of Taxation was rejected. The Southern 
States on this occasion were more fortunate than in Committee, for three 
of the minor States having but one Delegate in Congress were entitled 
to no vote when the report was brought forward ; hence the question was 
lost by these who had been a majority, for they could produce but 5 or 6 
votes at most. In the meanwhile it is our duty to tell you that the debate 
concerning Back-Lands is only dismis.sed for the present ; it will certainly 
be revived whenever the Northern and Minor States are better represented. 
And as those lands are likely to prove the subject of warm and obstinate 
contention, it may be proper to consider whether there is any middle p>ath 
by which the State may equally consult its honor, its interest and the 
public Peace.'* 

It is expressly provided by the 8th Article of Confederation which is 
our Magna Charter, that in paying the expences of the present War the 
Quota of each State shall be fixed according to the Value of all lands in 
the several States " granted to, or surveyed for any person together with 

* A letter from the delegates dated Aug. 18 is in A'^. C. State Recs., XVI. 398, but 
not the one here referred to. 

^ See nos. ()o6. 611, ante, 668, 671, 675, post. 



518 Continental Congress 

the buildings or improvements thereon " to be estimated from time to 
time as Congress shall direct. The enemy being in the Country is the 
reason given why this mode of fixing the quota has hitherto been neglected. 
For our parts we are determined to endeavour, by every possible means, 
to put this mode of fixing the Quota in a Train of Execution. Our State 
cannot, in prudence, desert that measure. It is more favorable for us 
than for most other States in the Union. Other States must pay for 
their large Towns and land highly cultivated, while we have few Towns 
and much wood land. But this mode, when the Western lands are included, 
appears to be less favorable. It is very certain that should we keep those 
lands, should we open the land office and sell them out, the clear revenue 
arising from the sale would be very small ; they would bring little money 
into the Treasury, but they would render our Quota of the National Debt 
near double of what it is at present. For in fixing the Quota every State 
must be charged with its located lands, and as Land Jobbers are not a very 
popular set of men in any Country, and as the Lands are probably to be 
valued by indifferent people we may be assured that the Western Lands, 
which are located, but not improved, will be rated at their full value, and 
we suspect that our Western Lands on this side of Ohio are nearly double 
of those Lands already located in the State. 

Connecticut, which has a very extraordinary claim to some Western 
Lands, also New York and Virginia, have made cessions of part of their 
claims to the United States, but they have not yet ceded all that is required, 
nor are the terms, especially those of Virginia, acceptable to Congress. 

If North Carolina should be induced to give up any part of her Western 
Territory, we presume she will at least require the following prelimi- 
naries : ^ . . . . 

On the general subject of supplies we need hardly inform you that our 
Army is extremely clamorous, we cannot pay them — we can hardly feed 
them. There is no money in the Treasury and we are obliged to draw 
upon the Foreign Loans before they are perfected. 

We know that our State will not be able to raise the Quota that is 
assigned to her for the year 1783, but we are confident that she will do 
all in her power. We have attempted to fix her Quota as low as possible, 
and from a Paper we have sent you will perceive that we have deducted 
something from the Quota of last year, though our circumstances are now 
more favorable.^ .... 

The enemy are extremely desirous to get their Soldiers, who are prison- 
ers, out of our hands, but they do not offer a quid pro quo. Congress 
have determined not to make any exchange 'til the Commissioner, who 
shall be sent to negotiate a general Cartel, shall produce Powers expressly 
derived from the King of Great Britain, and shall have paid or secured 
payment for a large balance due the United States for the sustenance of 

" See no. 606, ante. Five conditions are suggested as preliminary to any cession of 
territory by North Carolina. 

'' North Carolina's quota in the apportionment of 8,000,000 dollars Nov. 2, 1781, 
was 622,677 dollars ; her quota of 2,000,000 Oct. 18, 1782, was 148,000, a quota which, on a 
basis of 8,000,000, would be 592,000. Apparently therefore it was assumed by the delegates 
that they had accomplished a reduction equivalent to 30,677 dollars. Cf. nos. 621, 632, ante. 



October, 1782 519 

Prisoners. Attempts have been made in the meanwhile to secure a partial 
exchange. Congress have been zealously pressed to confirm the exchange 
of Lord Cornwallis for Mr. Laurens. This proposition is the more extraor- 
dinary as the enemy at first pretended to liberate Mr. Laurens uncon- 
ditionally. The finesse was certainly curious and original. However, 
Congress have not adopted the example in giving up Lord Cornwallis 
unconditionally. Such an Officer is rated at 1,200 men, which is too large 
a gift to be made to a Nation that never wishes to give us anything except 
hard measures. The Southern States who are best acquainted with his 
Lordship's good qualifications are determined, if possible, that he shall 
be indulged a few months longer in the repose of his native Country unless 
he should choose to be paroled in South Carolina. 

We confess that in this debate we have thought it our particular duty 
to give Lord Cornwallis credit for the numberless murders he has com- 
mitted in the Carolinas and Georgia.' 

Negotiations in Paris for Peace move on with such a steady pace that 
they are hardly progressive 

659. John Taylor Oilman to Josiah Bartlett.* 

(Private) Philada. Octr. 23d, 1782. 

Sir, 

I have Received your's of the 5th Instt. you ask my Sentiments Re- 
specting a Settlement with the officers for Rations etc. I have Received 
a Letter from Lieut. Blanchard in which he informs me that he does not 
doubt but the wishes of the Officers in that matter will be Complied with, 
and Requesting me to Transmit him some Resolutions of Congress which 
I Shall do if there are Such 

as to Rations I don't know of any Resolutions by which the matter 
is Submitted to the Several States for Settlement. It is my Opinion that 
the State ought not to make any Settlement, or pay any Monies to be 
Charged the United States, without seeing Resolutions of Congress 
authorizing them so to do, unless in Cases of Necessity.* 

It is an Opinion which Many Persons have, that the accounts between 
the Several States never will be adjusted. I have lately heard some Mem- 
bers of Congress give their Sentiments fully to that purpose, and it is my 
Opinion that the Conduct of some of the States are much Influenced by 
those Ideas. That it will be much for the Interest of some States not to 
have a Settlement made is Obvious ; and with such Ideas, should a Settle- 
ment at some very distant period take place, will it not be very difficult 
to obtain allowance for Charges which are not Authorized by Congress. 
I am an advocate for the Accounts being Settled between the Several 
States, (not on the principle that very great advantage would Accrue to 
the State of N H. in particular from Such Settlement, as I know the 
Opinion of some is, but because Common Justice Demands it and I think 

8 See nos. 617, 626, 631, ante, and no. 693, post. 
[ 659 ]i Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. II., 1779-1790, 

- See nos. 557, 576, ante. In a subsequent passage (omitted) Gilman resumes 
the subject. 



520 Continental Congress 

the public safety will Require it), but if such Settlement was to take place 
to-morrow why Should N H take on herself more of the Debt than is 
Required by Resolutions of Congress 

The Subject of Continental Currency has been taken up, but no Con- 
clusion made. It is not very extraordinary that States who have it not. 
say to those who have more than their pro[x')rtion ; you grasj)ed after it, 
you had no Right to Collect more than was Required of you by the Reso- 
lutions of Congress. In that Case their would have been Enough left for 
us to Collect, it had a Currency with us at the Rate of i,ooo for One. 
you have Collected it, you must make the most of it, take little or nothing 
for it etc. etc. etc.^ 

I will Just ask your Attention to some sentences in the Financiers 
Letter of July 29th. It is (as Congress have it) in the 3d Page of the 
4th Sheet, and on the Subject of Borrowing Money from the Dutch. 1 
think the Sentiments there may Serve to Corroborate some of my Ideas 
in this Letter.* 

I do assure you Sir that the Subject of this Letter gives me pain. I 
Should have been much better pleased to have made the Representation 
Verbally, but as I am favoured with an Oppt'y to Send it by a private 
Conveyance to Boston hope it will go Safe, on the one hand these are 
Subjects which persons in my Situation should Handle with Caution, and 
on the other I think it my Duty while in public service to give such In- 
formation as may prevent the State fr[om] b[eing] too much Injured. 
I have marked this as private, [and wish it] to be as much so as is Con- 
sistent with the good of the [country;] at any Rate I know it will be Safe 
with you, and wo[uld have] you make Such Use of it as you think proper. 

I have not a Single Article of News to give you, I would Answer your 
Letter more fully, but the Gentleman by whom this goes to Boston is 
Just going. 

660. Samuel Osgood to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(John Hancock).^ 

Philadelphia Octo'r 23d, 1782.- 
I have the Honor to enclose your [Excellency] the Copy of a Com- 
mission given by his br[itanic] Majesty to Mr. Fitzherbert for the Pur- 
pose [of] negociating a Peace. 

3 See no. 663, note 4, post. 

* Morris's letter of July 29 is in the Jotvrnah, Aug. 5, and in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., V. 619. 

[660] 1 Mass. Arch., CCIV. 279. 

- Oct. 23 a committee of which Osgood was chairman reported an establishment 
of the quartermaster's department, which was adopted. Because of an oversight an amend- 
ment became necessary, and this necessary addition to the establishment was adopted 
Oct. 29. The following extract of a letter from Samuel Hodgdon, commissary-general of 
military stores, to Timothy Pickering, quartermaster-general, Oct. 31, casts light on this 
oversight : 

" Before this comes to hand, you will have adjusted, and digested, the late regulations 
made for your department, you will wonder why rations so necessary to Support Men who 
have no pay Should not have been mentioned. 

" This was a mistake, discovered by your friend, upon reading over the plan, perceiving 
the error, I waited on Mr. Osgood and discussed it, he to the Committee, which has pro- 



I 



October, 1782 521 

I have also enclosed Extracts of Gen[l.] Washington's and Genl. Carl- 
ton's Letters [by] which it seems to appear that the latter [aimed] at 
opening a Door for a Seperate Peace. Congress have not tho't fit to 
order a Publication of the Letters but there can be no Reason why the 
several States should not be furnished with these Extracts particularly 
the supreme Executives. The enclosed Commission was Reed, from Mr. 
Adams in a Letter of the i8th of August in which he makes this Obser- 
vation — " The Words qiiorumcunque Statuutn quorum Interesse poterit 
include the United States according to them, but not according to the 
King who uses them ; so that there is still Room to evade. How much 
nobler, and more politic was Mr. Fox's Idea to insert the ' Ministers of 
the United States of America' expressly !["] ^ . . . . 

661. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

r, C-. Philada. 2^d Octob'r 1782. 

Dear Sir, 01 

I am apprehensive your Excellency's Patience has suffered a severe 

Trial by our Silence on the Subject of the Grants. Nothing is done of 

moment to this Hour, but I must admit that the prospect seems fair for 

a Decision favorable to our Wishes. There is however always something 

in our Way 

P. S. Mr. L'hommedieu makes up the news papers for your Excellency ; 
and will send you Copy of a late Resolution of Congress which touches 
the Grants in a tender point 

P S I wrote the preceeding before I went to Congress; while on the 
Floor we were honord with your Excellency's dispatches of the 14: and 
15 : Instant by Mr. Osburn and the several Enclosures were communicated 
without Loss of time to Congress. They came seasonably and will be 
of use.* .... 

662. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

<-., Philadelphia Oct: 23, 1782. 

o r , 

The Copy of a Report of a Committee which I had the Honour of 

transmitting to your Excellency by the last Post, has since that Time 

duced the additional resolve which you have on the back of the System inclosed, a fatality 
has attended this business in every branch, after the report had pass'd, and was handed 
the printer, by him printed and returned to the Office, we found the Assistants were omitted, 
this it seems was a mistake of Mr. Thompsons in not entering it on the day's minutes 
which were given the printer as a Copy, this you perceive I have subjoined in writting 
so that you are now in possession of the whole." Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, 
XL. 53. 

' As quoted by Madison (see no. 657, note 3, anle^ the whole clause is qxuxm 
guorumcunque Principum et Statuutn quorum interesse poterit. Adams's letter of Aug. 18 
is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., V. 665 ; the quoted remarks are in a foot-note. See also 
Adams to Laurens the same day (ibid., p. 667). See no. 714, post. 

[66i]iN. Y. State Lib., Qinton Papers, no. 4831. 

- See no. 662, post. There is no record in the Journals of the reading and commit- 
ment of these papers. A brief personal letter to L'Hommedieu Oct. 15, mentioning certain 
enclosures, is in Clinton Papers, VIH. 45. 

[662]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4828A. 

37 



622 Continental Congress 

been often taken up — Substitutes proposed, amendments made etc. but 
yesterday the same was agreed to as amended agreable to the inclosed 
Copy. The Resolution in the said Report recommending Peace and 
Hoarmony in that District, being a Milk and Water Peace of Business, 
is committed to a New Committee. A Question will now be put on the 
Report of the 17th of April last: The Necessity of gitting clear of that 
Report is urged, and that a Determination on the same will deside the 
great Question respecting the Jurisdiction of the Grants. I fear it will 
only create delay, and altho there is no probability of more than four 
States to the Report of the 17th, it is to be feared that the Votes of seven 
States cannot be obtained at present to declare in so many Words, that 
Vermont shall not be received in to the Federal Union, or be suffered to 
become an Independent State. I have thought the present Time very 
favorable for a Determination against their pretended Claims, but some 
Circumstances which would be imprudent to mention in a Letter by a 
Post Conveyance, makes me doubt of the success. I hope I may be mis- 
taken, next week I think will determine what we may expect from Con- 
gress on this Subject.^ .... 

P. S. Your Excellencys officiall Letter with the Inclosures since writing 
the above, have been received by us in Congress. The Papers are just 
now read and committed to the Committee I mentioned before. I hope 
they will have a good Effect in shewing the Necessity of a speedy decision 
of the Controversy.^ .... 

663. Elias Boudinot to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 23d, 1782.^ 
Dear Sir, 

I have long been of opinion that in all great Questions, which are agi- 
tated in Congress, especially relating to domestic Concerns, the Delegates 
from each State should consult their respective Constituents, when it 
may easily be done, at least as to general Principles. The Legislature 
being now met, I must beg leave, through your Excellency, to state to 
them the leading facts of a very important and interesting Question now 
under the Consideration of Congress, and which is set down for determina- 
tion on Wednesday next; on which I hope for the Legislatures Instruc- 
tions, on such general Principles as will necessarily lead to the final 
determination. The dispute I refer to, is that of the People on the New 

- A copy of the report which accompanied this letter was in the Clinton Papers, 
no. 4828B. It is printed (with emendations) in the Journals, under Oct. 17. The Journals 
do not mention the consideration of the Vermont question between Oct. 17 and Nov. 5. 
See no. 651, note 3, ante, nos. 663, 666, 669, post. 

3 See no. 661, ante. 
[663] 1 Princeton Univ., case 3, no. 1113 ; Library of Congress, Boudinot Papers (copy) ; 
Boudinot, Lije of Boudinot, I. 254, 

2 Boudinot wrote to Lewis Pintard Oct. 22 : "I am surprised at you supposing a 
doubt about my Return this Fall, if my Health is spared. I am decided on my not attending 
in Congress this Winter unless something very unexpected and extraordinary relating to 
Peace should turn up" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, H. 107). See no. 678, post. 



October, iy82 



523 



Hampshire Grants, calling themselves the State of Vermont. When I 
took my seat in Congress, I found this Controversy on the Table of Con- 
gress, having been submitted to their Determination previous to the 
Confederation, by the States of New Hampshire and New York, and 
the People stiling themselves the State of Vermont, on the principles of 
the Confederation then in an incomplete, unfinished state. A hearing 
was thereupon had before Congress, when the States of New Hampshire 
and New York produced many documents in support of their different 
claims (Massachusetts one of the claiming States, not attending but agree- 
ing to relinquish their Right, provided the district was made an inde- 
pendent State) the first founded on this Territory being within their 
Purchase under the Plymouth Company, and long possessed by them — 
the second adding to a continual Claim the determination of the King in 
Council in the year 1764 in their favour founded on the Patent to the 
Duke of York. The People of Vermont urged their having been several 
years independent de facto and in the exercise of sovereign Power pro- 
tested agt. any Power in the World interfering with it and insisted that 
their Boundaries only were submitted to the determination of Congress. 
Thus the Business stood undetermined, when we were informed that 
Vermont had extended her Claim and Jurisdiction Eastward into New 
Hampshire, where 5 1 Towns had voluntarily submitted to her Authority ; 
and to the Westward, she extended quite to the North River — That the 
People were defending themselves agt. the States of New Hampshire and 
New York by force of arms. Soon after, we reed, authentic Intelligence 
that some leading People in Vermont had met Commissioners from Gen- 
eral Haldiman, with whom Terms had been agreed on, for a Submission 
to Great Britain — That these Terms had been sent to the Commissioners 
for Peace etc. at New York for their Ratification, and by them to England 
for Instructions — That General Clinton laid great Stress on this Measure 
and had expressed Hopes thereby to conquer the Northern States. 

The peculiar Circumstances of this People and the danger of a civil! 
war among ourselves, at a Time when we found difficulty enough, in 
carrying on the war agt. the Common Enemy, led Congress to leave the 
Ground on which the dispute, as submitted to them, then stood ; and con- 
sidering themselves the Guardians of the general Interests of the United 
States, and in duty bound to prevent every Injury to the union and par- 
ticularly such as threatened their Existence as a Nation, took the matter 
up, in a general and extensive View and with the Consent of Nine States, 
passed the Resolutions of the 7th and 20th of August 1781. The People 
of Vermont were then met in general Assembly, including representatives 
from the Eastern and Western Incroachments. These together impru- 
dently rejected the Terms proposed by Congress in those resolutions But 
soon after, before any farther Steps taken by Congress, their Assembly 
again met, and by a public Act, relinquished and disclaimed those Incroach- 
ments, thereby complying with the Terms proposed and immediately 
forwarded delegates to Congress. 



524 Continental Congress 

A Committee was accordingly apix>inted to Confer with these Delegates 
or Commissioners, who reported to Congress, as appears by the Journals ; 
but no determination on this report could be obtained, it being alleged 
that Congress was not bound by the sd resolutions of August, and New 
York solemnly protested agt. the Power of Congress to determine other- 
wise than agreeable to and under the Submission, which also appears on 
the Journals.^ Your Excellency will see the reports and Acts of Congress 
on the printed Journals, I left with the House last Fall. The great Ques- 
tions necessary for the Consideration of Congress, I consider will be 

1st On the Submission of the sd States, ought Congress to determine, 
any part of a former Colony (who have separated from the same, at the 
beginning of the revolution, and are in the actual Exercise of an inde- 
pendent Sovereignty de fadto) to be independent de Jure and receive 
them into the Union as a fourteenth State. 

2d Can Congress as sovereign Guardians of the United States, when 
they conceive the general Safety of the common Cause shall require it, 
receive into the Union as a separate State, any Territory and People 
in the actual Possession of Sovereignty and Independence de facto, with- 
out examining into and determining the Right and Title of such People 
de Jure. 

3d In the present State and Circumstances of the People styling them- 
selves the State of Vermont, ought Congress to receive them into the 
Union, as an independent State agreeable to the resolves of 7th and 20th 
August 1 78 1. 

4th In case Congress shall refuse to receive them (as is most likely) 
ought the Delegates of New Jersey to agree to the sending the Continental 
Army or a sufficient part thereof, in the sd Territory, to subdue the In- 
habitants to the obedience and Subjection of the State or States that claim 
their allegiance. 

In the past altercations on these subjects, your Delegates have generally 
considered the Congress as Sovereign Guardians of the whole Union, 
and that they ought to prefer the general Good to every private Interest 
of a particular State. 

That the shedding the Blood of our Citizens, and all civill war among 
ourselves, at so critical a period, should be strenuously avoided — That a 
sovereignty and Independence de facto was a sufficient reason under the 
Circumstances for Congress to admit into the Union, without examining 
into the Right de Jure, agreeable to the strong reasoning of his most 
Christian Majesty, in his answer to the Justificative Memorial of the 
King of Great Brittain, sent herewith. 

If your delegates have acted contrary to the Opinion of their Constitu- 
ents, they wish to be set right, while it is in their Power to prevent any 
evill Consequences arising from it. We have reason to believe, that the 
Matter will certainly be brought on, on Wednesday next. 

I have two reasons for pressing the Sentiments of the Legislature on 
this subject — ist It has been asserted, that we have been acting contrary 

8 The course of the Vermont affair during the year 1782 may be readily traced 
by means of the index to the Journals and the index to this volume of Letters. 



October, 1782 525 

to the Opinion of our State. 2dly I claim 1000 Acres of Land, in this 
Territory under the Titles of New Hampshire and New York both, and 
altho I consider them as of but very trifling Value, yet it may hereafter 
be objected, that I was influenced by considerations, which I hope ever 
to despise. 

Your Excellency by laying this Letter before the Legislature, and 
communicating their Sentiments will much oblige me. 

I have also another Matter relative to the Interest of the State, to lay 
before the Legislature, that I think worthy their Notice. The united 
States are looking forward to the calling in the Quota's of the States, 
of the Continental money. An alarm has gone forth, that the State of 
Massachusetts has in their Treasury so large a Portion of this Paper, 
that some of the deficiency States will be obliged to purchase of her at 
a high rate. I have lately discovered that Connecticut has sent an Express 
Messenger to Virginia and purchased a Sum equal to her deficiency at a 
very low Rate indeed. If our State has not made up her Quota, it would 
certainly be a prudent step to appoint some Person to purchase the sum 
wanting without delay. It can be now had in Virginia, at 5 or 600 for 
one. It is my Duty to make this Communication, the Legislature will 
make such use of it, as they may think convenient.* 

[P. S.] This letter was to go by Mr Condit, but he left Town without 
acquainting me with it. 

664. Ralph Izard to John Lowell.^ 

Philadelphia 23d Octr. 1782. 

Dear Sir, 

.... We flatter ourselves that in the course of a fortnight we shall 
receive accounts of the evacuation of Charles Town, as we have had 
repeated intelligences from New York that a considerable number of 
Transports are gone thither for the purpose of bringing off the Garrison. 
It is high time that our unhappy Country should be relieved from her 
distresses. Your State at present is very respectably represented. But I 
am very sorry to find that Mr. Jackson purposes to set out soon for 
Boston; and the more so, as I can not learn that there are any hopes of 
our seeing you here this Winter. It certainly is of considerable importance 
that your State should be kept properly, and constantly represented : and 
I wish it were convenient for Mr. Jackson to stay until the arrival of his 
Successor. 

* Cf. no. 659, ante, and nos. 665, 693 (note 2), post. It is not entirely clear just 
what gave rise to the discussion of the subject at this time, but it appears to have been 
brought definitely before Congress through a letter of the assembly of Massachusetts, dated 
Oct. 21, read in Congress Nov. 26. See the Journals of that date (p. 754 n.) and Dec. 24; 
also Madison's Notes of Debates for the same days {Journals, XXIII. 854, 872). 

[664] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Charles E. Goodspeed of Boston; Mass. Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, first ser., IV. 381. 



626 Continental Congress 

665. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin)/ 

Philadelphia, October 25th 1782. 
Dear Sir: 

In our Letter to your Excellency of the 22nd Instant we transiently 
mentioned the Continental Money. On a review of what we then wrote 
the subject appears to deserve further explanation. The State of Massa- 
chusetts has not only collected by Taxes her full Quota of Continental 
Money, but she has a considerable balance in hand which she also requires 
that she may be allowed to pay into the Public Treasury at 40 for i. As 
every State has been called upon to sink its quota of that paper which was 
expressly fixed at 40 to i it seems that Massachusetts has an indubitable 
right to discount her Quota. She contends that if she did her duty when 
other States neglected theirs, it does not follow that she ought to suffer 
by her punctuality. We cannot, on principles of honor and good faith, 
dispute her claim, but we contend that Massachusetts shall not be allowed 
to pay in more than her Quota for two very plain reasons. The first is 
that the money is not worth the price that it will be valued at, and the 
other is, that if Massachusetts is permitted to pay more than its quota 
other States must be speculated upon, or, what is worse, they must make 
good their Quota by one Silver Dollar instead of 40 such Paper Dollars. - 

Virginia having called in large sums of paper has also applied to Con- 
gress that an Inspector be appointed in the State who shall examine the 
money, destroy Counterfeits and cut or deface the remainder to save the 
expence of sending the whole to Philadelphia to be examined. Other States 
have asked for the same indulgence.* .... 

666. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Octr. 29th 1782. 
Sir, 

In a Letter which I wrote you on the 25th Ulto. I mentioned that Some 
Representations had been made to the Delegates of New-York from 
the Govr. of that State Respecting the Conduct of Vermont. Those papers 
have been under the Consideration of a Committee, and the last Week 
Congress Assigned the 30th Instt. further to Consider of, and determine 
this matter.^ Several Persons are now here who say they have been 
Robbed of their property, and that their persons are banished, by the 
authority of Vermont, in Consequence of their adherence to the Govern- 
ment of New York, without doubt you have full Information of those 
Transactions so that I need not be particular. The present Situation of 

[66sV ^- C. State Recs., XVI. 446 (signed by Williamson and Blount). 
2 See no. 66^, note 4, ante. 
8 See the Journals, Sept. 18 (p. 590). 
[666] IN. H. Hist. Soc., Weare Papers, XI. 75; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXV. 77; Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 The assignment here referred to is presumably that noted in the endorsement on 
the report found in the Journals under Oct. 17. See no. 662, ante, and no. 669, post. 



October, 1782 527 

these matters seem to Require that a Final Determination Should now 
be made, but their are many Obstacles in the way. Various Resolutions 
on this Subject have been passed at different Periods, and at present their 
Seems to be much division of Sentiment Respecting' the matter, what will 
be Concluded on, or when a Final Determination will take place I cannot 
Say, but Should be glad that the Hon'ble the Legislature would give Such 
Instructions Respecting the matter, as to them Shall seem meet, 

I Suppose the Tax of Two Million Dollars is forwarded you by the 
Superintendant of Finance — you will see that the Quota Assigned to 
New Hampshire is in the same proportion as that of the late Tax of 
1,200,000 Dollars, for payment of Interest. This proportion is not so 
high as that of the last Year to the Eight Million Dollars, but it is my 
fixed Opinion, that it is much more than it ought to be.^ Have no late 
Authentic accounts from Europe, a Packett from Falmouth has lately 
Arrived at New-York, do not know what Instructions the Commander 
there may have Received but from the Newspaper Accounts It would 
seem that they are Determined to prosecute the War. whatever their 
Ideas may be, it is Incumbent on us to be prepared for the Worst 

I Inclose you a News Paper of this day 

667. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia,^ 

Philada. Oct 29th, 1782. 
Sir, 

We yesterday reed, your Excellency's favor of the 19th instant. The 
contents of the inclosed paper are the whole of the foreign intelligence 
which has arrived since our last. 

Some intelligence has been transmitted to Congress from the frontiers 
of N. York relative to preparations and designs in Canada which are far 
from corresponding with the pacific assurances held out in S'r G. Carl- 
ton's late letter to Genl. Washington. How far the intelligence is well 
founded must be left to the event. ^ 

The British fleet at N. York had been busily making ready for sea 
and it is expected will soon sail from that Station. We have no intelligence 
of its destination. The W. Indies are the natural object of conjecture. 

It is reported that on the arrival of the Packet at N. York Counter 
orders were inmiediately despatched to stop the evacuation of Charles- 
town. 

We have the honor to be with the greatest respect 

Yr, Excellency's Obt. Sevts. 

J. Madison Jr. 
Theo'k. Bland Jr. 

3 See the quotas in the Journals, Sept. 10 and Oct. 18, 1782 ; also those of Nov, 2, 
1781 ; cf. no. 632, ante. In an omitted passage Oilman remarks, " I have for some time 
past been Daily Expecting the Arrival of Judge White, but am hitherto Disappointed ". 
Phillips White took his seat Nov. 4. 

[667] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

- See the governor's reply to this letter, Nov. 8, Official Letters, III. 369. 



I 



528 Continental Congress 

P. S. A Letter from Ge'l Washington just reed, corroborates the re- 
port of a vessel being sent to stop the evacuation of Charlestown. 

His ExceH'y Govr, Harrison 

668. James Madison to Edmund Randolph/ 

Philada. Octr. 29th, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . ,. Congress have been occupied for several days past with the 
case of [Lippencot, referred to them] by [General Washington.] On one 
side it was urged that the disavowal and promises by the [British Com- 
mander,] the [abolition of the] obnoxious [board of refugees] and the 
general [change of circumstances,] rendered [retaliation un] necessary 
[and in] expedient. On the other side it was contended that a [departure 
from the resolution] so [solemnly] adopted and [repeated] by [General 
Washington and] with equal [solemnity ratified by Congress] would be 
an [indelible blot on our] character, that after the confessions on [the 
part of the enemy of the deed] complained [of a] greater [inflexibility 
on our part] would be [looked for;] that after such confessions too [the 
enemy] would never suffer the [innocent to perish] if [we persisted in 
demanding the guilty;] and finally that if they should suffer it, [the 
blood] would [be on their heads not on ours.] No definitive [resolution 
has yet passed on the subject.] All the [intermediate steps] have been 
very properly entered [on the secret journals.] ^ 

General Lincoln has just returned from the army. He has not yet 
made a report to Congress.^ He says I understand that his visit has had 
a very [salutary operation, but] that some [pay must be found for the 
army.] Where it is to be [found God knows.] The state of the public 
[finances] has already [compelled the Superintendant to] give a discharge 
to the former contractors, and to accept of a new contract by which 
[thirty] per Ct. is added to the price of a ration in consideration of credit 
for [three months.] He has on this occasion written a pressing exhorta- 
tion to the States, which I suppose is accessible to you.* 

Mr. [Carroll] moved yesterday a [resolution for accepting the] terri- 
torial cession [of New York.] It stands the order for today. I regret 
much on this occasion the [absence of Mr. Jones.] .... 

[668] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, Ac. 1081 ; Writings, I. 248; Papers, I. 184. 

2 Bracketed words are written in the official cipher. Concerning the case of 
Richard Lippincott, charged with the murder of Capt. Joshua Huddy, see nos. 602, 612, 
613, ante, 675, 677, 680, 682, post; also the Journals, Oct. 15, 17, 28, Nov. 8. Washington's 
letter, Oct. 25, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VIII. 361. See also his letter to James Duane, 
Sept. 30, ibid., p. 350. 

2 See no. 656, ante. 

* Morris's letter to the states, Oct. 21, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 825. 
See also his letter to the President of Congress the same date, ibid., p. 823 ; cj. his letter 
to Washington, Oct. 15, and that to Greene, Oct. 17, ibid., pp. 817, 818. 



November, i'j82 629 

669. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 30th October, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I take up my pen in Congress to inform your Excellency that Our 
Cession of Territory for the benefit of the United States is accepted. 
That of Virginia, under some Restrictions which are thought rigid, is 
suspended : but I have no doubt but this business will be accomodated. 
Your Excellency is apprized of the Principles which produced our Cession ; 
they will do Honour to our State as well as promote its Interest. 

This was the day for Vermont ; but it is too much wasted ; tomorrow 
will be devoted to it, and I hope soon to write to your Excellency the 
Issue. I refrain from any Opinion lest I shoud be deceived.^ .... 

P. S. Mr. Secy. Livingston is returned last night. He exposed himself 
by his long absence more than I wished. 

670. The President of Congress (John Hanson) to the Governor 
OF Louisiana (Est^van Mir6).^ 

Philadelphia, 31st October 1782. 
Sir, 

I had the honor to receive the two letters, which your Excellency was 
pleased to write on the 4th of May and address [ed] to Mr. McKean, my 
Predecessor, respecting Mr. Oliver Pollock. I immediately communicated 
them to the United States in Congress Assembled. The inclosed Resolu- 
tion will satisfy your Excellency of the good disposition of Congress, 
and of their firm determination to do justice to Mr. Pollock ; and as soon 
as possible enable him to satisfy the demands of those subjects of His 
Catholic Majesty, who have so generously aided him in his services for 
the United States.^ 

I pray God to have you in his holy keeping and grant you happiness 
and success in the administration of your Government. 

671. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philada. Novr. 4 [5], 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Yesterday being the anniversary for the choice of a President, 
Mr. Boudinot of N. Jersey was placed in the chair for the ensuing year.* 

[669]! Clinton Papers, VIII. 49. 

- See no. 666, ante, and no. 673, post. 
[670]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book p. 154 (addressed, "His Excel- 
lency Stephen Miro, Esq. Governor of Louisiana"). 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 22. The Journals do not mention a letter from Governor 
Miro of May 4, but letters from Oliver Pollock, one of them dated May 3, were read in 
Congress June 20. Cf. no. 538, ante. 

[671]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Madison Papers. 

2 The election of the President took place on the 4th, therefore the letter should 
evidently have been dated Nov. 5. 



530 Continental Congress 

The principle of rotation, altho' in no instance less proper, is applied with 
great firmness to the one in question by the States which have not yet 
filled the chair of Congress or which least expect a turn on any other 
principle. 

The territorial cessions have again been a subject of deliberation in 
Congress and that of N. York separately accepted.^ The conditions an- 
nexed to those of Connecticut and Virginia will probably be sent down 
for amendment. The policy now on foot with respect to this business 
is explained pretty fully in my letter of this date to Mr. Randolph, and in 
cypher. You will permit me therefore to refer you to that source for 
further information.* The same letter with the preceding one will also 
answer your enquiries concerning Lippincut and Asgill 

672. David Howell to Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philadelphia 5 Nov. 1782. 

Sir, 

A letter was read yesterday in Congress from Mr. H. Laurens. He 
expects to return to England and take passage in the Nov. Packet for 
New York; should he tarry the winter in England thro' unavoidable 
casualties, he may be exjjected in the Spring. This mode of return to 
America, it seems, was demanded of the British as matter of right and 
not solicited as a favour. He has Dr. Franklin's concurrence in the 
measure.^ No news. 

Yesterday being the first day of the Congressional year, the Election 
of a President came on. On counting the Ballots, His Excellency Elias 
Boudinott Esquire, was declared duly elected. " The 5 pr. cent Impost 
is at present much the Subject of conversation in our government. The 
opposition gains ground, and will finally by a very great majority carry 
their point " 

The above is an extract of a letter reed, from Home per last Post. 

I wish to be favoured with your opinion on the particular in my late 
Letter to you the rather on account of the above intelligence.' 

You must have been informed particularly of the cession of territorial 
claims heretofore made by Connecticutt, New York [and] Virginia. Con- 
gress lately accepted that of New York : The others will also be accepted 
when they shall be disencumbered of certain conditions, of which event 
there is ground to hope from the liberal Sentiments expressed by the 
Delegates of sd States.* 

The Western territory only to Lat'de 45 ceded to the U. States would 
be an important Fund for restoring public credit in the opinion of many. 



3 See the Journals, Oct. 29, 30; also no. 668, ante, and nos. 672-675, post. 

* The letter to Randolph is no. 675, post. 

[672]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See Madison's Notes of Debates, Nov. 4 (Journals, XXIII. 843), and no. 673, 
Post. 

8 Presumably the letter of Oct. 18 (no. 652, ante). 

* See nos. 611, 671, ante, 673, 675, post. 



November, iy82 681 

673. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 5, 1782. 

S'r, 

In my last Letter to your Excellency I inclosed a Copy of the Report 
of a Committee respecting the Hostilities which had taken Place in 
Cumberland County and which was to have been determined on last 
Wednesday; but the Report of the 17th of April tho often taken up 
has from Time to Time been postponed and is not yet determined on, 
and I believe never will be. Yesterday when the Question was ready to 
be put, The advocates for Vermont, who had brought in this Report and 
insisted that nothing could be done till the sence of Congress was taken 
on the Same, which they alledged, ought to as soon as possible, were 
now as anxious to have it postponed sine Die: and the Question being 
put, it was carried in the Affirmative.^ It is not unlikely that at first they 
supposed a great majority might be in favour of the Report refered to, 
but finding only Two or Three States inclining to Vote for it, they did 
not choose to have any Decision upon it. It is possible, from the beginning 
nothing more was intended by some, than such a Delay of the Business 
that nothing finally should be done, for my own Part I am not disap- 
pointed, it has ended as I had reason to fear of which I informed your 
Excellency. It is very evident that but three or four States will Vote for 
the Independence of Vermont and at the same time the Vote of Seven 
States cannot now be procured to say they shall not be received into the 
Federal Union. It is strange that even the Criminal Correspondence, with 
the Enemy of these People, the late violent Acts of Hostility and their 
Disobedience to the Orders of the United States, is made use of, by their 
Advocates, as arguments to shew the Necessity of recognizing their 
Independence, even the Name of an illustruous Carecter has been men- 
tioned as having incoraged those People, that their Independence would 
be granted by the United States. There can now be no Excuse for not 
determining what measures shall be taken for Preserving the Peace in 
that District of Country, and for restoring the unhappy sufferers to their 
Liberties and Estates. I should be very happy if something could be agreed 
on which would answer those Valuable Purposes. I hope something 
effectual will be done and that my fears in that respect are groundless. 
I think within Two or Three Days we shall know the Result 

The Cession of our Western Territory, after much Debate, has been 
accepted by Seven States including New York, it is proposed by those 
Lands to establish a Fund for paying Interest of Moneys Loaned and 
public Debts ; but whether the public Creditors will be satisfied with such 
security, is doubtful.^ .... 

[673]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4842. 

2 These proceedings are recorded in the Journals under Nov. 5, therefore, since 
L'Hommedieu speaks of them as of "yesterday", it seems probable that this letter was 
written Nov. 6. See no. 662, note 2, ante, nos. 676, 683, 684, 688, 691, post; cf. the 
Journals, Nov. 8 (p. 720 n.). 

3 See the Journals. Oct. 29, and nos. 671, 672, ante, 674, 675, 699, post. 



532 Continental Congress 

674. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philadelphia Novr. 5th 1782. 

We have been honord with your Excell'ys of the 26th of Octr. by this 
post. Congress have been informed by the Comm'r in Chief that the 
Army are gone into Winter Cantonments, the main body Hutting in the 
Vicinage of New Burgh on the North River (where head Quarters are 
fixd for the Winter;) by the same letter we are informed that 14 British 
ships of the Line, one 40 and Seven frigates with fourteen transports 
Saild on the 26th Ulto. from N: York (supposed for the W. Indies no 
mention is made of any troops being embarqued with them) and also 
that on the arrival of the last Packet two Vessels were Immediately dis- 
patched to Chas. Town; of the evacuation of which place we have yet 
received no Authentic intelligen[ce] and indeed it remains a doubt (rather 
increased by the dispatching the two Vessels above mentioned) whether 
this measure will take place, Since the late Change in the Ministry. We 
are told by a letter from Mr. Carmichael that the firmness of the Answers 
of the States to the Overtures of the British Court (through S'r Guy 
Careleton and admiral Digby) has had a very good effect, and has even 
met with the personal applause of the King of Spain, and that the Opinion 
of the foreign Ministers at that Court is that the Wisest thing Great 
Britain can do is to Conclude a treaty acknowledging the Indei)endence 
of America. It is also said the Imperial and Russian Ministers have reed, 
fresh orders to ofifer the mediation of those two Courts, but this is 
unconfirmed Conjecture.^ We do ourselves the Honor to Enclose for 
Yr. Excell'y the Vote of Congress for accepting the Cession of N. York. 
Elias Boudinot Esqr. of N Jersey was Yesterday elected our President 
for the Ensuing year, we have the honor to be with perfect Esteem Yr. 
Excelly's most obedt. Se'ts, 

J. Madison Jr. 

Theo'k Bland Jr. 

675. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Phila. Novr. 5th, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

My last informed you that a proposition had been made in Congress 
for accepting the territorial cession of N. York. The paper enclosed con- 
tains the proceedings which ensued. The acceptance of this cession singly 
met with a negative from Virginia for obvious reasons. In the first place 
such a measure, instead of terminating all controversy as to the western 
Country, the object proposed by the original plan, introduces new per- 

[674]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, "His Excellency Benj'n Harrison Esqr. Governor of Virginia 
Richmond"). 

2 See no. 675, post. 

[675] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 49; Writings, I. 251 ; Papers, I. 469, 



November, iy82 538 

plexities. And in the 2d place, an assent from us might be hereafter pleaded 
as a voluntary acceptance of the U. States in the room of N. York, as 
litigants against Virginia. 

On the subsequent motion you will find Virga. divided. The proviso 
expressed in this motion if referred to the territory retained by N. York 
appeared to me to be at least nugatory, or rather to imply that a Resolu- 
tion of Congress might operate towards depriving another State of the 
benefits of the Confederation ; and if referred to the territory ceded by 
N. Y, to imply that the 9th art: was the constitutional rule of deciding 
controversies as well where the U. S. as where a particular state were 
the party. All that Congress could, as I supposed, have properly done, 
would have been to guard against any biass on future decisions by declar- 
ing that their acceptance of the Cession of N. Y. was not to be considered 
as expressing any opinion as to the rightful claims or limits of that State. 
But I did not feel myself at liberty to substitute such a proposition because 
it militated against the guaranty required by Virga. and would have pre- 
judged that condition of her Cession. 

The success of [the Middle States] ^ in obtaining the cession of N. Y. 
has given great encouragement : and they are pursuing steadily the means 
of availing themselves of the other titles. That of Connecticut is proposed 
for the next object. Virginia will be postponed for the last. By [enlisting 
the two preceding] into [their party they hope to render their measures 
more effectual with respect to the last]. 

Besides the effect which may be expected from this [coalition with New 
York] on [territorial questions in Congress] it will I surmise prove very 
[unfriendly to the pretentions of Vermont. Duane] seems not un [apprized 
of the] advantage which [New York has gained,] and is already [taking 
measures for a speedy vote on that question.] Upon the [whole New 
York has] by [a fortunate] coincidence of circumstances, [or by skilful 
management or by both] succeeded [in a very important object : by ceding 
a claim which was tenable] neither [by force nor by right she has] acquired 
[with Congress the merit of liberality] rendered the [title to her reser- 
vation more respectable and] at least dampt [the zeal with which Vermont 
has been abetted.] If you should be [surprized that] these considerations 
did not [dissuade Connecticut from an unqualified acceptance of the 
cession of New York] you will only be [affected] as others [were at the 
time.] The truth is [they were surprized at it themselves after it was too 
late and] would gladly [have revoked their error.] ' 

You were also informed in my last of the situation in wch the affair 
of Lippencut remained. In the midst of our [perplexities] a letter arrived 
from Genl. Washington inclosing an intercession from the Count de Ver- 
gennes in favor of the life of young Asgill, founded on a most pathetic 
and importunate memorial from his mother. The Ct. writes to Genl. 
Washington, as he says not in the quality of a public minister, but of a 

- Words in square brackets in this letter are written in cipher. The code used in 
this instance, as also in most of Madison's letters during the remainder of the year 1782, 
is the official cypher mentioned under no. 484, note 2, ante. See the last paragraph 
of this letter and no. 722, note 4, post. 

3 See no. 671, ante. 



534 Continental Congress 

man who feels the force of Mrs. Asgills supplications. He backs his 
intercession however, with the desire of the King and Queen who were 
much afifected with the memorial, observes that, altho' Asgill is no doubt 
a prisoner to the U. States, yet as he became such by an event to which 
the arms of his Majesty contributed, the interest he takes in behalf of 
this officer, is the more admissible, and signifies that if the British com- 
mander should not in this instance fully comply with the demands of 
Justice there is reason to believe that future instances of barbarity will 
be prevented. 

The judgment [formed of] this [intercession by] different [members 
is very different.] All [agree that] retaliation [cannot be executed in 
the face of it, but some] are of [opinion] that [it] luckily [affords and 
ought to be made the ground of re] treat [from that measure ; whilst others 
suppose] that [our honour will be more wounded by such a public mark] 
both [of our obsequiousness to France and of her disapprobation of our 
views than by a retreat of ourselves on the ground of] Carlton's [promise 
to continue his pursuit of the] murderer. [ Some fear also that an omission 
in our act of the wish] expressed [on the part of the King and Queen 
of France] may [give umbrage. Others again] infer from the circum- 
stances [of the letter from the count being] addressed to [General Wash- 
ington not to Congress and in his private not official quality] that a 
[public notice of it can not be expected and] that [a private] explanation 
[by the secretary of] foreign affairs [to the minister of France will be as 
much as will be proper.] 

The [minister also] received [an instruction to interest himself in the 
affair and had even] prepared [a memorial to Congress relative to it.] 
Having [discovered however the diversity of] sentiments [prevailing in 
Congress and being apprehensive] that [his interposition] might render 
[the case more perplexing and] possibly [be not treated with due notice 
in the final act of Congress he has very prudently desisted from his 
purpose.] 

Untill Congress shall have come to some decision with respect to the 
notice to be taken of [the intercession above-mentioned] I would not 
wish it to be generally spoken of from this letter.* 

4 See no. 668, ante, and nos. 677, 680 (note 3), 682, post. The hanging of Capt. 
Joshua Huddy took place on Apr. 12, and the matter was brought to the notice of Congress 
through a letter of Washington Apr. 20 (read in Congress Apr. 29), transmitting sundry 
statements and depositions relative to the incident (see a letter from Gen. Henry Knox and 
Gouverneur Morris, written from Elizabethtown Apr. 16, in Letters to Washington, ed. 
Sparks. III. 500). May 10 Washington transmitted to Congress the correspondence relative 
to the Huddy case and to the selection by lot of Capt. Charles Asgill as the British officer 
upon whom retaliation was to be inflicted. This letter was read in Congress May 14. August 
19 Washington transmitted the correspondence respecting the court-martial of Capt. Richard 
Lippincott, the British officer charged with responsibility for the murder of Captain Huddy. 
The letter was read in Congress Ang. 26. For proceedings in Congress upon recent phases 
of the affair see the Journals, Oct. 15, 17, 28. 29 (p. 695 n.), Nov. 7, 8, and Madison's 
Notes of Debates Nov. 7 and 8 {Journals, XXHI. 845. 847). For the voluminous corre- 
spondence relative to the affair consult the Calendars of Washington's correspondence. 
The more important of Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 472, 478, 
978, X. 2, 4, 9, 23, 25, 28, 69, 87, 105, 106. The letter from Vergennes to Washington. 
July 29, and the letter from Lady Asgill to Vergennes, July 18, are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., V, 634, 635. 



November, 1782 535 

Yesterday being the ist Monday in November, the vacant chair was 
filled by Mr. Boudinot. The distribution of the votes was as follows, 
for Mr. B. [New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland] for Mr. [Bland, Virginia, South 
Carolina] for Mr. [Rutledge, North Carolina] for Mr. [Nash. New 
York.] Massachusetts had no Delegate present but Mr. Osgood. Georgia 
was wholly unrepresented. As you were present at the last election I need 
not recite to you the motives to the one in question. "^ .... 

Your favor of the 26th past was duly received yesterday. I am anxious 
for the new cypher which it promises as well for my own use as yours, 
and for the same reasons. I conclude from your silence as to my late 

communications in L Is Cypher that the key I sent you some time 

ago answered its purpose.' 

676. Phillips White to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, Novr 6th 1782. 
Sir, 

I arrived here last Thursday noon, was detained by the way two days 
on business, and three by rain. Congress is informed by Letter from 
Genl. Washington, that the N. Hampshire line are to winter near West 
point (where the army from King's Ferry have taken Winter Quarters) 
and that the Rhode-Isleand line supply their place. ^ The affair of Vermont 
is now before Congress it does not appear likely that there will be a 
final determination on the matter at present, the Deligates from N. 
Hampshire wish to have particular instructions respecting the same. Mr. 
Oilman informs me that he has wrote to your Hon'r on the subject.' I 
am with due respect your Honours Humble Servt 

P. White. 

677. David Howell to Moses Brown. ^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 6 1782. 
Kind Friend, 

.... Your humanity will lead you to enquire about the fate of Asgill 
the intended victim to attone for the death of Huddy. His parents have 
written a most affecting letter to the French Court requesting their inter- 

^ Cf. Madison's Notes of Debates, Nov. 4 {Journals, XXIII. 843). The Journals 
contain only a record of Boudinot's election. No cipher for " North Carolina " is in the 
manuscript, but " N. C." has been inserted in the interlinear translation. Madison's notes 
record that the vote of North Carolina was given to Rutledge. Passages relating to 
Carmichael's letter of July 8 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 600), Laurens's letter of 
Sept. 5 {ibid., p. 693), Washington's letter of Oct. 30 (see no. 674, Post), and Jones's illness 
are here omitted. 

" See no. 603, ante. 
[676] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 

2 This was Washington's letter of Oct. 30, read in Congress Nov. 4 (see the 
Journals, p. 711 n.) ; cf. nos. 674, 675, ante. 

3 See nos. 659, 666, ante; cf. nos. 691, 696, 710, 720, post. 
[677]^ R. I. Hist. Soc, Moses Brown Papers, IV. 



536 Continental Congress 

cession in favour of their Son. Count De Vergennes in consequence of 
it has in his private capacity and not as Minister sent a Letter to Congress 
interceding for the Hfe of that unfortunate young officer. He mentions 
that the King and Queen of France are greatly affected at the expected 
fate of the victim — that they wished their feeHngs on the occasion to be 
known on this side of the water and that should it be consistent with the 
national honor of this Country his release would be a very grateful event 
to their Majesties. The Count adds that as Asgill is a prisoner of York 
Town, he hopes it will be remembered on this occasion that the laurels of 
that day were acquired by the joint arms of France and America and that 
his Intercession may receive some weight from that Consideration. 

Sir Guy Carleton had ordered a Court-martial on Leppincut who 
acquitted him ; these proceedings had been sent out to Genl. Washington 
and enclosed by him in a Letter to Congress. This Letter with all the 
papers in the case had been referred to a Committee which had made a 
report in the case and that report had been under Consideration in Con- 
gress and warmly debated before the arrival of the Letter of Count De 
Vergennes. 

The report of the Committee would have taken Asgills life, but it 
met with opposition. I moved to have that part of the report struck out 
which would affect his life; I was seconded by Mr. L. Homedieu from 
N. York, a vote was taken and it was struck out, whereupon the report 
was recommitted. In this Stage the intercession from the French Court 
found the business. The Counts Letter with that of Asgill's parent to 
[him?] are referred to the same Committee and they set this day on the 
business.' .... 

678. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 6th 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

How vain are all earthly Expectations. I was pleasing myself with the 
hopes of soon seeing you and enjoying my Winter in Sociable Festivity 
with my Friends of the Ridge. You will undoubtedly, e'er you receive 
this, have been informed of my dissappointments, and the improbability of 
my seeing you this twelve months to come, unless you visit me. So it is 
and so it must be.^ .... 

679. Eliphalet Dyer to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 8th, 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Am very sorry our delegates delay so long their coming, as the 
State must be unrepresented, perhaps for near a month, in a critical season 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 7, 8 ; also nos. 668, 675, ante, 680, 682, post. 
[678]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 108. 

2 Boudinot evidently alludes to his election as President of Congress. See no. 663, 
note 2, ante. 

[679] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., III. 397. 



November, lyS? 537 

and when they will be much wanted. Mr. Huntington expects to set out 
on Saturday ; he would tarry a few days longer, but as I must set out for 
Trenton on Monday, if he remained the State could not be represented, 
and which also must be the case if I should return in 8 or lo days from 
Trenton, till the arrival of those gentlemen who propose to come. We are 
unhappy in not keeping up a representation of the New England States, 
which has been the occasion often of many things passing in Congress 
very disagreeable to them and contrary to the genius of the people there. 
New Hampshire is but just now represented for the whole time I have 
been here, but at the same time Massachusetts have lost theirs, and not 
like to be represented for some time ; Rhodisland have been but part of 
the time. The winter season is the time to rectefye mistakes, as well as 
to lay out plans for the next season, but if the States will not take care 

of their representation, they must blame themselves 

As Mr. Huntington will probably arrive as soon as this letter, and will 
be able to communicate every thing need full, I might have spared troubling 
your Excellency with much I have wrote allready; have inclosed a list 
of the proportions of the several States which I mentioned in my former 
letter, with my observations thereon, tho after found I had omitted to 
inclose it at that time. Mr. Boudinot of the State of New Jersey, a gent'n 
of good carracter, virtuous, and decent behavior, was elected President 
of Congress on Monday last for the year ensuing; the choice was clear, 
no strift, as it is the prevailing inclination of Congress, to proceed in 
course through the States when it can be done with propriety, Jersey 
having none before. 

680. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin)/ 

Philadelphia, Nov. 9th, 1782. 
Dear Sir: 

The Resolutions of 3rd October and loth December, 1781, have doubt- 
less been forwarded to Government pressing the filling up the Continental 
Battalions by enlistments for three years or during the War. Since the 
dates of the above requisitions Congress have been urged by the dictates 
of necessity and prudence to make reforms in every department where 
money could be saved. The Resolves of August 7th, 1782, were in conse- 
quence of that plan and are a part of the system. It is clear that almost 
every Officer in the North Carolina Line would be deranged on the first 
of January in consequence of those Resolves and yet you will find, when 
the Journals are handed you, that Mr. Blount and myself did not think 
fit to oppose the measure on general ground nor to mar the Journals by 
unavailing Yeas and Nays, We yielded to the Storm of Necessity. A 
measure which the general good of the Army demanded, which had 
been recommended by the Commander-in-Chief and had been digested 
in Congress was not to be rashly opposed by a State, to whom they would 
certainly reply, that we had been absolutely inattentive to the Requisitions 

[68o]i A'^. C. State Recs., XVI. 455 (signed by Williamson and Blount). 
38 



538 Continental Congress 

of Congress, while other States at a great exi:)ense were filling up their 
Battalions by long enlistments. 

After two months when the business had subsided sufficiently we pre- 
sumed that we might, without much opposition, obtain relief for the State, 
provided we could couch it under some colourable excuse. 

Accordingly, October 9th, 1782, on motion of Mr. Williamson, seconded 
by Mr. Blount, that a Committee be appointed to consider whether the 
Officers and Troops belonging to the Line of some States in the Union 
may not be so afifected by the Resolves of August 7th respecting the Army 
as to injure the public service, the same was referred to Mr. Williamson, 
Mr. Montgomery and Mr, Bland. From what passed in Congress when 
the motion was made it was very clear that opposition would be made to 
every measure that might be attempted to give particular Indulgences, as 
they were called to particular States. However, as all that we desired was 
to obtain a Vote for keeping our Officers and Men on the establishment, 
you will observe the means by which we attempted it. The Report was 
drawn up in Terms which could hardly give offence to anybody ; and being 
Chairman of the Committee I gave it in as soon as a report prevailed that 
the enemy were about to continue in Charlestown, for, by the way, it has 
always been questioned whether the enemy would evacuate that port. 
Their plan at least appeared doubtful. The Report of the Committee, 
after some debate, was referred to the Secretary at War to report. The 
Secretary reported that the general arrangement of the Army could not 
be materially injured by adopting the measure we had proposed. Whence 
the report, after a second debate, was agreed to in Congress on the 4th 
Instant. It was in these words, vis : ^ . . . . 

Thus you see our Troops continue on the same footing they would 
have stood if no Resolves on the Subject had passed. If the General needs 
them he will keep them in the Service, and if a Period should happen when 
good Troops are not wanted they will be requested to march home and 
try to replace the numerous Soldiers and Citizens we have lost during the 
War by getting more ^ 

2 See the Jotirnals, Oct. 9, Nov. 4. According to the endorsement on Williamson's 
motion of Oct. 9 the committee brought in its report Oct. 28. This report (without date) 
is placed in the Journals under Nov. 4, designated as a " motion " of Williamson. In this 
letter the preamble and the resolution as passed are quoted. The resolution as adopted 
differs from that reported by the committee only in the addition of the last clause, which was 
suggested by the secretary at war. The secretary's report, dated Nov. i, is also found 
in the Journals under Nov. 4. 

2 The passage omitted here relates to the Asgill matter. See nos. 668, 675, 677, 
ante, the Journals, Nov. 8, and no. 682, post ; also Samuel Wharton to George Read Nov. 10, 
in Life of Read, p. 369. Elias Boudinot, in his Reminiscences, has given a history of the 
afifair. His narrative, from the time when Congress was informed of the outcome of the 
court-martial of Lippincott, is as follows : 

" Congress took the matter under full Consideration, during which Genl. Sir Guy 
Carleton arrived at New York with the Title of Commander in Chief and the preliminary 
Articles of Peace were announced. Genl. Washington then wrote to Congress, that he 
had first proposed the retaliation on Capt. Asgil as an Act of Mercy on the whole, to put 
a stop to the Enemy destroying the Lives of our Citizens in future as they had done in 
times past. That he had determined to carry it into execution, not being satisfied with 
the result of the Court Marshal. But that unexpectedly the preliminary Articles of Peace 
had wholly changed the ground. The Execution of an innocent Person ought to have 
an object in View to prevent the unnecessary Shedding of blood. That the Example now 



November, ijSs 539 

68i. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

In Congress Novr. 12, 1782. 

" Resolved.- .... 

This Resolution passed a few minutes ago. I sent you a line for the 
post but I fear too late This catches Doer. Tucker in the street proceeding 
by the State House. You will let it be known to Mr. J. as quickly as 
secrecy will admit. An official notification will follow by the first opp'y. 
This will prepare him for it : It passed unan : and with't a single remark 
adverse to it. On this subj't again by the post next week or by Col: B. 
if earlier.^ Adieu." 

could not have any effect, as there would be nothing for it to operate upon, etc. etc. 
That therefore he should stay the Execution of Capt. Asgil, without an express order from 
Congress to the Contrary. 

"A very large Majority of Congress were determined on his Execution; and a Motion 
was made for a Resolution, positively ordering his immediate Execution. Mr. Duane and 
myself considering the reasons assigned by the Commander in chief conclusive, made all the 
opposition in our power. We urged every Argument that the peculiarity of the Case sug- 
gested, and spent three days in warm debate, during which more ill blood appeared in the 
House, than I had seen. Near the close of the third day, when every Argument was 
exhausted, without any appearance of success, the Matter was brought to a close, by the 
Question being ordered to be taken. I again rose, and told the House, that in so important 
a Case, where the life of an innocent Person was concerned, we had (tho' in a small 
minority) exerted ourselves to the utmost of our Power. We had acquitted our Con- 
sciences and washed our hands clean from the blood of that young Man. That we saw 
his fate was sealed. That now we had nothing to do but to request that the proceedings 
should appear without Doors, as being equal to the occasion ; and the World should know 
that we had conducted the measure with a serious Solemnity. That great warmth had been 
occasioned. Some harsh language had taken place. The Minds of Gent'n had been 
irritated. I therefore moved that the Question should be put off till the next morning, 
on the Minority giving their Words, that they would not say another Word on the Sub- 
ject, but the Question should be taken in the first place, after the meeting as of course. 
This was unanimously agreed to. 

" The next morning as soon as the Minutes were read, the President announced a Letter 
from the Commander in Chief. On its being read, he stated the rec't of a Letter from 
the King and Queen of France enclosing one from Mrs. Asgil the Mother of Capt. Asgil 
to the Queen, that on the whole were enough to move the heart of a Savage. The 
substance was asking the life of young Asgil. This operated like an electrical Shock. 
Each Member looking on his Neighbor, in surprize, as if saying here is unfair play. It 
was suspected to be some scheme of the Minority. The President was interrogated. The 
Cover of the Letters was called for. The General's Signature was examined. In short, 
it looked so much like something supernatural that even the Minority, who were so much 
pleased with it, could scarcely think it real. After being fully convinced of the integrity 
of the Transaction a Motion was made that the Life of Capt. Asgil should be given as a 
Compliment to the King of France. This was unanimously carried. On which it was 
moved that the Commander in chief should remand Capt. Asgil to his Quarters at 
Lancaster. To this I objected. That as we considered Capt. Asgil's life as forfeited, and 
we had given him to the King of France, he was now a free Man, and therefore I moved 
that he should be immediately returned into New York, without exchange. This also was 
unanimously adopted, and thus we got clear of shedding innocent Blood." [At this point 
is added the phrase : " by a wonderful interposition of Providence " ; but the words appear 
to have been interpolated at a later time by a hand other than Boudinot's.j 

The original manuscript of these reminiscences (the text of which is here followed) is 
in the John Carter Brown Library. There is a printed text in Boudinot, Lije of Elias 
Boudinot, I. 247. 

[681 ]i Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 52; Writings, I. 259. 

2 The resolution of Nov. 12 renewing the appointment of Jefferson as minister 
plenipotentiary for negotiating peace. See Madison's Notes of Debates, Nov. 12 (Jotmwls, 
XXIII. 848). 

3 In a brief letter of the same date (Madison Papers, I. 51) Madison remarks, 
" Col. Bland proposes to set out in a few days for Virginia on private business which he 



640 Continental Congress 

682. Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton/ 

Phila: 1 2th Nov. 1782. 
D'r S'r, 

.... Mr, Asgill, from the delay that has taken place in consequence 
of the correspondence between Genl. Washington and Genl. Clinton and 
after with S'r Guy Carlton on his Case, and the submission of it by the 
Com'r in Chief to Congress for final decision, will escape the doom to 
which his lot had consigned him. Congress having lately directed the 
Genl. to release him, and to demand a compliance of S'r Guy with his 
assurances, that every measure in his power sho'd be employed to detect 
and bring to punishm't the guilty, as by the inquiry instituted by them 
Lippincut, the supposed offender, had been acquited of the charge, this 
business will I expect produce no other consequences than reproaches on 
Congress, the interposition of our good ally and his Amiable consort 
produced by a pathetic address from Lady Asgill and made thro' the 
C't Vergennes to Genl. Washington to extend mercy to Capt. Asgill 
which had been communicated to Congress but not noticed in their pro- 
ceedings on the question, has I presume had some weight in the ditermina- 
tion.^ .... 



683. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Decemb. [November] 13, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

In my Letter to your Excellency, of last week, I mentioned my Expec- 
taitions of knowing in Two or Three Days What Releif the unhappy 
Sufferers in the County of Cumberland could expect from the Interposition 
of the United States in their Behalf. I was mistaken — we could not get 
a Report 'till yesterday. This Report is such an extraordinary a Pro- 
duction, that there does not appear to me the least chance of its being 
adopted; it will however answer the Purpose of Delaying the Business 
by committing or postponing the same. Such a Report was unexpected, 
altho Two of the Committe (the one from Massachusetts and the other 
from Rhoad Island) are open advocates for the Vermont Independence. 
I fully believe now, what I have feared, that nothing decisive by Congress 
will be done. This Report was to have been taken up to day, but there 
not appearing a Sufficient Number of States by Eleaven oClock, (accord- 
ing to the Rule) an adjornment took Place. Tomorrow it will be taken 

expects will detain him some weeks". In a further brief letter of Nov. 14 (ibid., I. 53) 
Madison says, " By a line dropped for the post, tho' perhaps too late to get into the mail, 
and by another by Dr. Tucker who soon followed, I informed you of the reappointment of 
Mr. Jefferson, that the act passed unanimously and without even an unfavorable remark". 

[682] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Jones (addressed, in Madison's hand, "The 
hon'ble Edmund Pendleton Esqr. Caroline County Virginia"). 

2 See nos. 668, 675, 677, 680, ante, also Livingston to Adams Nov. 18 (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., VL 51). The original of Livingston's letter is in Haverford College, 
Roberts Coll. 

[683]! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4887. 



November, 1782 541 

up, and after that Time I shall advise Mr. Phelps Shattuck and Evens to 
return, as it will answer no Purpose for them to continue longer in this 
expensive Place. They have spent all their Money and are considerably 
in debt, which in their Petition they have mentioned, but I believe will 
have no Releif in that respect, more than in the other, from Congress. 
We proposed setting of[f] for the State this Week had the Vermont 
Business been finished. We shall stay as long as we see the least Proba- 
bility of any Thing being done for the Restoration of Property to our 
unhappy fellow Citizens in Cumberland County, or untill Colo's Floyd 
and Hambleton arrive, which I hope will be very soon.^ We have no 
News exept what is contained in the inclosed Papers. 

With great Respect and Esteem I am your Excellencys most obedient 
and Hum'e Servt. 

Ezra LHommedieu. 

684. James Duante to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 15th Novem'r 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I had some Reason to hope that a decisive Act might before this have 
passed respecting the district of the Grants; but as not more than eight 
States are now represented, and I am under an indispensable necessity of 
returning home speedily, I despair of it. I trust so entirely to your Excel- 
lency's Candour that I do not fear we shall be accused of Want of Zeal 
for our Jurisdiction, or respect for our official Instructions : every thing 
on our part has been urged to produce a Determination : but this business, 
clogged by the heavy pressure of eastern Influence, has always moved 
heavily. A wish to procrastinate still prevails ; even the most candid are 
apprehensive of the Consequences of driving the Vermont Faction to 
despair and no Pains are spared by the interested to sound this Alarm 
and give it every possible Impression. There seems however no danger 
that many of the States will ever Vote for the Independance of Vermont. 
If Justice was out of the Question, there are political Obstacles of vast 
weight : and the favorable Change of our Circumstances entitle us to 
hope that we shall never again see the dangerous Crisis to which we 

were reduced when the p s ^ Resolutions of the 20th of August 1781 

unhappily took place. 

In the mean time the unhappy Sufferers from the late cruel Outrage 
demand our Compassion and our protection. A Report highly injurious 
to the Rights and the Honour of our State, fabricated by a Mass. and 
R. I. Delegate, was this moment rejected by all the States present, Rh. I. 
only excepted and New Hampshire divided.^ It has served to shew a clear 

- See no. 673, ante, and no. 684, post. The report referred to is in the Journals, 
Nov. 14. There is no record of proceedings pertaining to it in the Journals for Nov. 12. 
[684]^ N. Y. State Lib.. Clinton Papers, no. 4856. 

2 Pusillanimous? Pernicious? 

3 These proceedings took place Nov. 14, therefore this letter should probablv bear 
that date. The Massachusetts and Rhode Island delegates alluded to were evidently Osgood 
and Howell. See also Madison's Notes of Debates Nov. 14 (Journals, XXIII. 849), 
no. 683, ante, and no. 688, post. 



642 Continental Congress 

alteration of Sentiment, with resi>ect to Vermont ; and leaves an opening 
to introduce some Motion in favour of those our distressed and much 
injured Fellow Citizens : but nothing which promises salutary Effects 

can be hazarded in so thin a Congress 

Be pleasd .... to hurry on Hamilton and Floyd my worthy Col- 
leagues. 

685. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

r^ ^. Philada. Novr. 15th [1782.] 

Dear Sir, 

I send you as a piece of information of which you will be the best 
judge of the use to be made, an extract of a letter laid before Congress 
by the Sec'y at War : ^ . . . . 

To this I may add a report that the inhabitants of this State West of 
the Alleghany Mountains are openly proceeding towards a separation of 
Govt. It is certain that they have for some time had such a scheme in 
contemplation. 

686. David Howell to Welcome Arnold.^ 

^. Philada. 17 -Nov. 1782. 

otr, 

Yours of 4 Inst, came to hand last evening by Dr. P. Bowen. The 

rejection of the Impost by the Independant j4 " is an event highly pleasing 

to me and will eventually redound to the credit of our State and I hope to 

the benefit of the whole Union. 

[685]"^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " His Excellency Benjamin Harrison Esqr. Richmond Hon'd by 
Col: Bland"). 

2 There follows an extract of a letter from Gen. William Irvine to the secretary 
at war, dated at Fort Pitt, Oct. 28, 1782. General Irvine states that " the people are in 
great numbers flocking over the Ohio into what has hitherto been called the Indian 
Country and are busy in taking up and improving lands as well on what is supposed to be 
within the bounds of Penna. as beyond the Western line thereof. From the avidity with 
which they act on this occasion and the industry used by some few to persuade the people 
to form new States, I am of opinion that unless Congress and the several States, (who have 
unsettled lands within their limits) immediately take measures for securing them neither 
the U. S. nor any particular State will reap much advantage from them .... if you think 
it worthy the attention of Congress, you will doubtless inform them." See nos. 687, 689, 
690, post. 

[686] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, II. 113 (addressed. " The Hon'ble Wel- 
come Arnold Esquire To the Care of Hon'ble Mr. Houston Trenton"). 

2 The allusion is to the number of the members of the lower house of assembly 
of Rhode Island who voted against granting to Congress the right of levying a five-per- 
cent, impost. See the letter of the speaker, William Bradford, dated Nov. 30, in the 
Journals of Congress, Dec. 12. The reply of Congress to the speaker is in the Journals 
under Dec. 16. Cf. nos. 646, 647, 652, 654, 672, ante, 690, 693, 695, 701, 702, 707, 714, 718, 
722, post. 

Ezekiel Cornell, then at Scituate, R. I., wrote to Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, Nov. 19: "I 
am much more convinced of the necessity of the measure [i. e., the impost] since my return 

home than I was before I am more and more surprised every day when I reflect 

that the Impost was voted out by a Unanimous Voice for I can assure you upon my honor 
that there has not been one out of Twenty among the Inhabitants of the Country that I 

have seen that is opposed to the measure in general. They are much in favor of it 

I think it grows more and more popular every day in the Country but it is held by the 
Providence people to be worse than Treason to speak in favour of duties." Copied from the 
original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 



November, lySs 543 

That this important vote was passed after such a perfect understanding 
of the subject, with so much dehberation and with entire unanimity are 
circumstances which bid defiance to all future attempts from the advocates 
of that measure. 

I am sorry youd forgot to mention in yours the names of the Com- 
mittee appointed to write a Letter to Congress on the Subject. Without 
knowing their names a suitable Letter cannot be written to them and after 
your next to me I fear it will be too late to address them. You will please 
to write them not to assign the withholding the Back Lands as a reason. 

That reason was better calculated to influence the State than to satisfy 
Congress. And besides, New- York cession of claims has been accepted 
and that business got into a good train. I wish to receive the Instructions 
you mention as soon as possible, my stay being short. 

The Load of illwill, jealousy and envy drawn on me, by the part I 
have taken in this affair has placed me in a very disag[ree]able Situation. 
The approbation of [the] well informed and virtuous of my constitu[ents] 
in addition to that of my own Conscie[nce] has hitherto sustained me 
and is all I ex[pect.] .... 

Pray give my respects to those in your present circle, if any, to whom 
I hav[e] the Honor to be known; 

[P. S.] Dr. Arnold's respectful Comps. and good wishes attend you.^ 



687. Samuel Wharton to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia, 17th November, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you a few days ago,^ but, as the Chief Justice ^ is going to 
New Castle, it affords me an opportunity of conveying the latest public 
papers 

The settlers to the westward of the Alleghany Mountain have declared 
that the country within that space is independent of Pennsylvania, and 
they are fast settling the lands westward of the river Ohio. This im- 
portant circumstance was communicated to Congress and the Government 
of Pennsylvania on Friday last, and the Council and Assembly of this 
State, and (they will) have a conference upon this intelligence to-morrow.* 
Many, of both bodies, are of opinion that this State would be large enough 
if it was confined to the Alleghany Mountain, and it would be wisdom 

3 This note was not written by Howell, but probably by Dr. Jonathan Arnold him- 
self, Howell's colleague in Congress, and brother to Welcome Arnold, to whom this letter 
was addressed. Welcome Arnold was a member of the tribunal then assembling at Trenton 
to adjust the controversy between Connecticut and Pennsylvania. See no. 601, ante, and 
no. 690, post. 

1687]! Read, Lije of George Read, p. 373. 

2 Nov. 10 {ibid., p. 369). See no. 680, note 3, ante. 

8 Thomas McKean, who was a delegate of Delaware and at the same time chief 
justice of Pennsylvania. 

* This clause probably ought to read, " and the Council and Assembly of this State 
are to have a conference upon this intelligence tomorrow ". 



544 Continental Congress 

to acquiesce in the proposition of an independent State, if it was founded 
upon the admission of the rights of such as have just claim. Congress 
could now decide the measures of the new government; but, if the affair 
is neglected for any length of time, it will be as unmanageable as that 
of Vermont, which has been and will be fruitful of much vexation to 
the National Council/ .... 

688. Ezra L'Hommedieu to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. i8: 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I transmitted to your Excellency, by the last Post, a Copy of a Report 
relative to the New Hampshire Grants, which has since been taken up. 
The inclosed Copy of the Jornals will shew how far Proceedings have 
been had on the same. Only seven States being present, and Rhoad Island 
being determined to push a Decision on the Second Resolve, and prehaps 
to give it a Negative, without any Amendment or suffering it to be com- 
mitted, we were under a Necessity of calling for an adjornment, between 
one and Two oClock which suceeded. Since that Day we have not been 
able to make a Congress, but 'tis expected that today or tomorrow Eight 
or Nine State[s] will be represented when we shall endeavour some amend- 
ment or Substitute for the Second Resolve, which appears so weak and 
pusalanimous That should it pass, 'tis probable it would do more hurt 
than good : at the same Time I have but little Expectation that any Reso- 
lution can be obtained which will be efTectuall for the Protection of the 
Sufferers in Cumberland County and for restoring the Property taken 
from them.^ .... 

689: Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Alexander Martin).^ 

Philadelphia, Nov. i8th, 1782. 
Sir: 

Inclosed is the Copy of a Letter that is just handed Congress by the 
Secretary at War.^ You will excuse me for not having made a fairer 
Copy of it. The Communications of this Week are not in my tour of 
duty but lest Mr. Nash should overlook it I have sent the Intelligence 
as it occurs. If the Assembly should sit on this Season possibly this 
Letter may overtake them, if so I hope they will turn their attention to 
the Western Country ; those Lands are certainly in a very critical situation. 
The Spirit of Migration prevails to a high degree in these Middle States 

^ See no. 685, ante, and nos. 689, 690, 695, post. The information referred to 
appears to have come through a letter of Gen. William Irvine of Oct. 29. See the resolu- 
tion of the Pennsylvania assembly Nov. 19, Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 666. 
[688] IN. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 4858A. 

2 See nos. 683, 684, ante, 691, 696, 699, 702, 705, 709, 710, post. 
[689]! A^. C. State Recs., XVI. 459- 

2 The letter from General Irvine to the secretary at war mentioned in Madison's 
letter to Governor Harrison, no. 685, ante. The first sentence of Williamson's letter sug- 
gests that its date was probably Nov. 15, instead of Nov. 18. 



November, 1782 545 

and the Spirit of making new States is become epidemic. It is certain 
that many of the small States or at least many of the inhabitants of those 
States encourage that Spirit. They look with an envious eye on the large 
States and wish to make us all of the Pigmy breed. The Assembly of 
this State have just received accounts that the Inhabitants in General 
over the Allegany Mountains are disposed to declare themselves Inde- 
pendent. There is the utmost reason to believe that the people of Vermont 
and their abettors in the Minor States are endeavoring to persuade the 
people in General on the Western Waters to revolt. 

A petition was some time ago handed to Congress said to be from some 
people on the back of Virginia, praying to be erected into a State. On 
enquiry there was much reason to believe that the Petition did not originate 
in the Western Country and it is doubted whether three of those people 
had ever seen it.^ Having mentioned those facts I flatter myself that you 
will think with me that the utmost attention is required by our State to 
prevent if possible any bad impressions from being made on the citizens 
of the State on the Western Waters. The Spirit of our Government is 
so moderate and the general disposition of the Western Inhabitants is so 
good that I am at least convinced that our Subjects will be among the 
last who will run riot, As the State has shewn and I am persuaded ever 
will shew the utmost inclination to gratify their wishes and provide for 
the regular administration of Justice among them. 



690. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Novr. 19th, 1782.^ 
My dear Sir, 

.... Col : Bland set out on f riday last. He carried with him an official 

notification to Mr. J n of his appointment.^ .... Col : Bland also 

carried to the Govr. an extract of a letter from Genl. Irwin at Fort Pitt, 
which displays in full colours the avidity of the Western people for the 
vacant lands and for separate Gov'ts. On this subject Richmond I suppose 
will afford better information. I take for granted that every material 
article of it, with the steps taken by the legislatures with respect to western 
affairs in general will fall within your correspondence.* 

The prospect derived from the impost of 5 pr Ct. seems to be pretty 
thoroughly blasted by a unanimous and final veto by the Assembly of 

3 See no. 607, ante. 
[690]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 54; Writings, I. 261 ; Papers, I. 474. 

2 A manuscript of Elias Boudinot entitled, " Rules for conducting Business in the 
United States in Congress Assembled " (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 441), contains 
the twenty-eight rules recorded in the Journals under May 4, 1781, together with subse- 
quent additions under dates as follows: Feb. 14, Nov. 19, 1782; Jan. 29, Feb. 6, 14, 19, 
Mar. 4 [5], May 15, 1783. The rule recorded under the date Nov. 19, 1782 (which is not 
in the Joumais) is as follows : 

" Resolved that when a proposition consists of a negatived Resolution and a negatived 
Amendment, said Resolution is out of order." 

3 See no. 681, ante. For proceedings respecting salaries of foreign ministers see 
the Journals, Nov. 20, and Madison's Notes of Debates (Journals, XXIIL 850). 

* See no. 685, 687, 689, ante. 



646 Continental Congress 

Rhode Island. This State by its Delegates (who fully represent the 
aversion of their constituents to the impost) voted in Congress that 6 
million of Dollars were necessary for the year '83, that 2 million were as 
much as the States could raise and as ought to be required by Congress, 
and that applications for loans in Europe ought to be relied on for the 
residue. And yet they absolutely refuse the only fund which could be 
satisfactory to lenders. The indignation against this perverse sister is 
increased by her shameful delinquency in the constitutional requisitions. ° 

The tribunal erected for the controversy between Connecticut and 
Penns'a was I hear to be opened to day 

Mr. Jones returned yesterday for the first time since his relapse, into 
Congress. The Representation of Virga. untill a reinforcement arrives 
will be precarious. Can you give me no encouragement on this occasion 
from your own purposes ? 



691. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Novr. 20th 1782. 
Sir, 

In my Letter of the 29th Ultimo I Informed you that the affairs of 
Vermont were then under Consideration, much has been said on this 
Subject but no Conclusion made — almost all agree that it is absolutely 
Necessary to make a final determination of the matter, but are at a loss 
to know what is best to be done. Mr. White as well as myself is very 
desirous that we may have particular Instructions from the State on this 
Subject.^ 

I Inclose you Copy of a Resolution of Congress Accepting the Cession 
made by New- York — the Cession made is on the printed Journals of 
March 1781.^ 

Yesterday the Subject of Settling with the Army for Depreciation of 
Pay etc. was under Consideration, the propriety of Such Settlements 
being made by the United States, and not by the States Individually was 
much Urged. I think it is probable it will be determined this day; as 
New Hampshire has agreed to and already made some settlements with 
their Troops to Jany. ist 1782. Mr. White and my Self are desirous 
that it should be Recommended to the several States to make the Settle- 
ments to that time but whether this will be done is Quite uncertain, I 
think it is most probable it will not.* .... 

^ See no. 686, note 2, ante. 
[691]! N. H. Hist. See, Weare Papers, XI. 81. 

2 See nos. 666, 688, note 2, ante, 696, 710, 720, post. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 29. The cession executed by the delegates of New York is 
recorded in the Journals under Mar. i, 1781. 

* See the Journals, Nov. 19-22, Dec. 2, 3, 11, 13 ; cj. no. 632, ante, nos. 698, 710, post. 



November, IJ82 547 

692. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philada. Novr. 26th 1782. 
Sir, 

In answer to your Excellency's letter of the 8th as far as it relates to 
Capt : Pierce,^ we inclose the late Acts of Congress making further re- 
ductions in the army, with the remarks of the Sec'y at War on the 
operation of these acts in the case of that Officer. In the latter will also 
be found such information as the War Office affords on the Subject of 
cloathing for the Virginia troops. 

In pursuance of your request we sounded the disposition of the Superin- 
tend't of Finance as to an acceptance of Tobo. from Virginia at the 
current prices in place of cash. His reply was that his Agent in conse- 
quence of instructions from him had made a proposition to that very 
effect to the amount of 60,000 Dollars, which had been lying some time 
before the Executive unanswered.® .... 

693. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. Novr. 26th, 1782.* 
My dear Friend, 

.... For want of something more interesting, I will epitomise for 
you the proceedmgs of Congress on Friday last. I have already informed 
you, if my recollection does not fail me, that Congress long since reed, 
a letter from Mr. H. L. informing them of his discharge from captivity, 
and of his having authorized an expectation in the [British ministry that] ^ 
Cornwallis should [in return be discharged from his parole.] Shortly 
after a letter from Doer. F, acquainted Congress that at the pressing 
instance of Mr. L. in consideration of the [power given him to] exchange 
B[ur]g[oyn]e for him, and of the reasonableness of the [thing he had exe- 
cuted an] instrument setting Cornwallis at full liberty untill the pleasure 
of Congress should be known. These pvapers had been committed, and 
the committee had reported a [ratification] of the instrument. After 
some debate a recommitment took place. In this state the business re- 
mained untill the day above mentioned, when in order to satisfy some 
members who had called for a report, and to enable the committee to 

[69a]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones and Madison) ; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, III. 380 (abstract). 

2 Capt. William Pierce, aide-de-camp to General Greene. Pierce's case is not 
specifically mentioned in the Journals, but for consideration of questions involved in the 
reductions under the act of Aug. 7 see the Journals, Oct. 9, 30 (p. 699 n.), Nov. 19, 20. 

^ Governor Harrison's letter of Nov. 8 is in Official Letters, III. 369. For par- 
ticular comment upon his request see Madison to Randolph Nov. 26 {Writings, I. 262). 
[693]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 55; Writings, I. 262; Papers, I. 477. 
- For some proceedings in grand committee Nov. 26 see Madison's Notes of Debates 
(Journals, XXIII. 854), with a continuation Dec. 24 (ibid., p. 872). See also no. 663, 
note 4, ante, and no. 695, note 3, post. 

The first part of this letter relates to the governor's suggestion, in his letter to the 
delegates Nov. 8, that the superintendent of finance accept tobacco in payment of the 
demands on Virginia. See no. 692, ante. 

3 Bracketed words except B[ur]g[oyn]e. below, are in the official cipher. 



548 Continental Congress 

adapt their report to the sense of Congress, a motion was made to instruct 
the committee to report a proper act of [ratification] etc. On this motion 
the merits of the case, which as connected with our national character 
may be deemed of some moment, fell under general discussion. In support 
of the motion it was argued that whenever a public Minister entered into 
unauthorized engagements, the only alternative which presented itself 
to the Sovereign was either to [ratify the engagements] or [to recal the 
minister] unless indeed he should prefer both : that Congress having 
even refused [to permit the minister] in question [to decline] his [ap- 
jxjintment] had therefore no [option left but to support him in what] 
he had [taken upon himself], that nothing could be more [preposterous] 
than to detain him in so dignified and confidential a service, and at the 
same time to degrade him in the estimation both of his friends and enemies 
by a [public disavowal of his] conduct : that it was particularly improper 
to [send him into] negotiations with [the latter] under the impression 
of [supposed obligations to them], that a part of this reasoning was 
applicable to the part which Dr. F., another [minister had taken in the 
measure], that the Marquis de la Fayette who in consequence of the libera- 
tion of Cornwallis had with the approbation of the ministers, undertaken 
an exchange of several of his family, would [also participate in the morti- 
fication] ; that finally it was greatly overrating the importance of Corn- 
wallis to [sacrifice all these] considerations [to the policy or gratification 
of prolonging his] captivity. 

On the adverse side it was said that the British Govt, having treated 
Mr. L. not as a prisoner of war but as a traitor, having refused to ex- 
change him for Genl. B — g — e when the offer was made, and having 
declared by the British commanders at N. Y. that he had been freely 
discharged, neither Mr. L. nor Congress could be bound either in honor 
or justice, to render an equivalent, whilst policy strongly inculcated that so 
barbarous an instrument of war and so odious an object to the people 
of the U. S. should be held as long as possible in the chains of captivity ; 
that as the latest advices rendered it probable that Mr. L. was at this 
time on his return to America, the dignity of the Commission for peace 
could not suffer from any mark of disapprobation which might lie on 
his public conduct; that Doer. F.'s character was guarded against injury 
in the case by an express reservation in his act for the allowance or disap- 
probation of Congress ; that the same might be said with respect to the 
Marquis de la Fayette; that the solemn declaration made by Congress 
agst. any partial exchanges untill a cartell should be established on national 
principles would not admit even of a ratification of an exchange antece- 
dent to that declaration. 

These were the ostensible reasons for the opposite opinions on this 
question. We may well suppose however, that with some members at 
least they were secretly corroborated, on one side by [personal attach- 
ment to] Mr. L. and on the other by a dislike [to his character and a 
distrust excited by circumstances] which I some time ago related to you. 
It is to be observed at the same time that several members who admitted 
the force of this last consideration, were led by the arguments first stated 



November, 1782 549 

to oppose the opinion of those who urged it. The Question was at length 
suspended at the request of some new members who wished for further 
information. There is some reason to beHeve that it will be followed by 
an attempt to [rescind the appointment.] * 

The obstinacy of Rhode Island in rejecting the Impost, is a subject 
of very general and [pointed crimination,] not only among [the public 
creditors and their friends] who deem it equivalent to a [denial of justice] 
but among the most [enlightened patrons of the foederal interests] who 
pronounce it a [blow to our credit abroad] as well as [our future credit 
at home.] And in truth who can combine this consideration with the 
paltry [payments on the last requisition of Congress and not shudder at 
the prospect ?] This obstinacy on the part of R. I. is supposed, on good 
grounds, to be much [cherished by the] limited manner in which other 
[States have acceded to the impost] from which she infers a latent re- 
pugnance to the measure. Would it not then be prudent [in Virga. to] 
revise and [enlarge her act of compliance?] If [her example] should 
prove [less eflficatious] than might [be wished] it would at least [have 
a conciliating effect on other States and gain her general credit]. I see 
no possible objection, unless indeed, she wishes the [plan to be frustrated] 
in which case I can only give it as my firm opinion that a thorough knowl- 
edge of public affairs would speedily reconcile her to it. If your own ideas 
correspond with those here expressed, and the temper of the Legislature 
be not unfavorable, you will give such suggestions as may be best adapted 
to the object, and make them the subject of a future paragraph." .... 

Col. Hamilton took his seat in Congress yesterday as a Delegate from 
the State of N. Y. Mr. Peters, Mr. Fitzsimmons and Genl. Mifflin have 
attended some days as members for Pennsa. 

694. The President of Congress to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Novr. 27th 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellency's several Favours of the 30th Octr., ist and 19th 
Instt. which have come to hand since I had the honor of filling the Presi- 
dents Chair, have been duly laid before Congress. - 

You will believe me Sir, when I assure you, that the Correspondence 
and Communication which my Office necessarily opens with your Excel- 
lency, are among the few special Advantages and agreeable Engagements, 
which I promise myself during my continuance in so arduous a Station. 

I feel myself greatly honored by your Congratulations, and rank them 
among the few that have given me real Pleasure. 

* The proceedings relative to Laurens's letter of May 30, 1782, to which Madison 
refers, were on Sept. 16, 17, 20, 25, and 26. Madison's comments are in his letters to 
Randolph Sept. 17 and 24 (nos. 621, 631, ante). The proceedings on Friday, Nov. 22, are 
covered in Madison's Notes of Debates for that day (JourtiaJs, XXIII. 852). See also 
the Notes for Nov. 25 (ibid., p. 854), and the Journals, Nov. 26. 

= See nos. 686 (note 2), 690, ante, 695, 706, 707, 715, post. 
[694] ^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Boudinot, Life of Boudinot, I. 273. 

- Washington's letters of Oct. 30 and Nov. i were read in Congress Nov. 4 and 8, 
respectively; that of Nov. 19 appears to have been read Nov. 28. 



550 Continental Congress 

Altho' the present State of our Affairs, do not raise my Expectations 
of being able to give your Excellency any Intelligence worthy your at- 
tention, yet be assured Sir, as far as it shall be in my Power, I shall most 
freely communicate from time to time, whatever may promise the least 
information or amusement; hoping for a like return, however it may 
prove more advantageous or entertaining to me. 

Congress having come to a resolution relative to the several Matters 
in Osgoods dei>osition, your Excellency will receive a Copy thereof by 
the Post. It was generally thought necessary to communicate the reasons 
of this Proceeding to the Persons exercising the executive Power in that 
district, but least a proper secrecy should not have been observed, previous 
to the arresting of the Delinquents, the time and manner of such Com- 
munication, is altogether left to your discretion.^ 

I have the honor to be, with Sentiments of the most sincere Respect 
and Esteem 

Your Excellency's Most Obed't and most Hble Serv't 

Eli AS BouDiNOT 

695. James Madison to Edmund Randolph,^ 

Philada. Deer. 3d 1782. 
My dear friend. 

Applications from the States of N. Hamshire and Massachusetts con- 
cerning [the old paper] ^ of which they [hold a surplus] have called the 
attention of Congress once more to that subject. The Superintendant 
on a Reference to him reported in [rigid adherence to his] maxims of 
[public faith] that credit should [be given for all surpluses at the rate 
of one for forty.] This proposition was readily [negatived by Congress.] 
Whereupon a motion was made by Mr. [Osgood] that [the states] should 
[be credited] according to the [current value at the time of redemption] 
which with one of the [letters from Massachusetts was refered to a 
grand committee.] The [committee are unanimous] that [the burden 
of redeeming the old paper] as well as all other [public burdens] ought 
to be equitably apportioned on the States. On the [mode and the rate 
a diversity of ideas prevail.] One expedient suggested was to [call anew 
on the States to] sink [the money] and leave them [to level its inequalities 
by] negociations [among themselves.] This met with very little coun- 
tenance. Another was to declare that as soon as the entire [sum should 
be taken up by the States from their] respect [ive citizens Congress] would 
proceed to charge the several [surpluses on the] deficient [States at the 

3 The information of Christopher Osgood of Providence, R. I., relative to Vermont, 
was transmitted by Deputy Governor Bowen of that state to General Washington, and 
by the latter to Congress with his letter of Nov. 19, read in Congress Nov. 25. The com- 
mittee to whom the letters were referred brought in a report Nov. 27, with a consequent 
resolve that day and additional action Dec. 3. Osgood's " Information " is in the Wash- 
ington Papers, under Nov. 13, and bears this endorsement by Secretary Thomson: " Nov. 
25, 1782. To be kept secret. Referred to Mr. Osgood Mr. Carroll Mr. Rutledge. Dec. 13, 
1782 Injunction of secrecy taken of¥." See also Madison's Notes of Debates Nov. 25, 27, 
Dec. 3, 5 (Journals, XXIII. 854, 856, 858. 862), the Journals, Dec. 5, and no. 709, post. 
[695] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 57; Writings, I. 270; Papers, I. 483. 
2 Bracketed words are in cipher. 



December, 1782 561 

rates equity might prescribe.] The objections against this were that it 
gave no immediate satisfaction to the [complaining States and] would 
prolong the internal [embarrassments of the States] which obstructed 
[the requisitions of Congress.] Lastly it was [proposed to] authorize 
the Commissioners who are [to traverse the country] for another [purpose 
to take up the un] redeemed [bills and] form them into a part [of the 
common debt] by [issuing to the] individuals [specie certificates at the 

rate of ] ; and to apply the like rule to an [adjustment of the 

disproportionate] redemptions [of the States.] This expedient was upon 
the [whole least disrelished by the committee and is now under their] 
consideration. Its reasonableness and its [fate both] will depend much 
on the scale by which as well the [redeemed as the outstanding bills is to 
be valued.] In all questions relative to this subject, the defect of infor- 
mation under which we lie makes it difficult for us to deduce the general 
interest from a just and fair comparison of particular interests. To supply 
in some degree this defect with regard to Virginia I shall enclose to Mr. 
Ambler for his answers, a number of queries, of which I herein add a 
copy for you. Some of the queries indeed have a greater reference to other 
subjects. If you can assist Mr. A. or can enlarge the plan by other queries 
I beg you to do it. If the sense of the [leading members of the assembly] 
can be conveniently [gathered it] might [also be of use.] A public [consul- 
tation] would [violate the secresy] which is judged necessary [to prevent 
a revival of speculation and] which [led me to the use of the] cypher on 
this occasion.* 

The Secy, of F, Affairs communicated to me a few days ago his de- 
termination speedily [to resign his office.] He asked me in the course of 
conversation whether I thought Mr. [Jefferson] would [prefer the vacancy 
to his foreign appointment.] I answered him in the negative. He then 
asked whether I supposed he would [accept the] commission of [Jay at 
Madrid in case the latter] should prefer [the Secretariship of foreign 
affairs and be] appointed to it. I told him I could not answer that ques- 
tion but doubted much whether [Congress] would [consent to part with 
the] services [of Mr. Jay as a negociator of peace.] I wish you to mention 

this conversation to * and acquaint me with the result. The want 

of a Cypher with him will be an apology for omitting a direct communi- 
cation. Through your hands also it may be accompanied with explanations 
if requisite. I leave it to yourself to decide how far it may be worth while 
to [feel the pulse of our friend McClurg] with respect to the [vacancy 
in question].'' .... 

3 See nos. 659, 663 (note 4), 665, 693 (note 2), ante, 716, 720, post. 

* Arthur Lee ? 

^ This paragraph and the next following in the printed text, but here omitted 
(they are largely in cipher), were sent to Randolph Dec. 2, with the following additional 
note : " I send this by Mr. Nathan who visits Richmond in pursuit of his demand agst. the 
State. A duplicate of it will make a part of my letter by the post tomorrow." Concerning 
Simon Nathan's demand against Virginia see Official Letters, III. passim. 

With regard to the resignation of the secretary for foreign affairs see Madison's Notes, 
Nov. 28, Dec. 2, 3 (Journals, XXIII. 857, 858), the Journals, Dec. 3, and nos. 707, 718, post. 
Livingston notified Governor Clinton of his resignation Dec. 2 (Clinton Papers, VIII. 53). 
His explanation of the reversal of his decision is in a letter of Dec. 22 (ibid., p. 61). 

Replying to this letter, Dec. 13, Randolph remarked : " Nothing less than Europe would 
suit our friend of M[ontice]llo. However I will write to him on the subject. Residence 



552 Continental Congress 

The merits of the Controversy are Hke to be brought under trial of the 
Court at Trenton, the Agents for Connecticut having been foiled in every 
plea for an adjournment. But I do not hear that any progress is made 
from which the issue can be presumed. 

The Legislature of this State has just published for consideration a bill 
subjecting to the penalties of Treason all attempts for erecting an inde- 
pendent State within its charter-Limits. This circumstance with some 
votes which have been lately taken in Congress with reference to [Ver- 
mont] leave no doubt that the policy of Penna. will in future be reversed.' 

696. Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 4 1782. 
Sir, 

Agreeable to your desire I now set down to write your Hon'r a few 
lines, but have nothing new of consequence Mr. Oilman wrote to the 
Hon'ble President, on the affair of Vermont, the Day before I arrived 
here, sence which I gave a few hints respecting the same.^ it appears that 
something should be done soon, it looks likely to me that the final De- 
sision will greatly depend on the inclination of New Hampshire, and New 
York, for which reason it is highly necessary that we have instructions, 
if nothing was done on the Subject the last Session of the Genl. Court. 
I hope there will be something done the begining of the next, the Deli- 
gates from N. York appear to be very earnest to have a final determination, 
the Members from said State at present are Mr. Floyd, and Mr. Hamble- 
ton, who we think are more cordial than some others have been etc 

PS I would not have you think that I am covitous, by my sending 
only half a sheet, the reason of my doing it, is on account of a complaint 
that the members incumber the mail with large letters, etc. etc. there has 
been an attempt to prevent private Letters going post free, however I shall 
run the venture to inclose a Newspaper this once as it will be covered in 
one Mr. Oilman will send to the Hon'le President ^ 

697. John Taylor Oilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Deer. 4th, 1782. 
Sir, 

I Enclose Copy of a Resolution respecting the promotion of Officers 
in the Lines of the Several States. I Suppose this Resolution has been 

beyond the water would not, I believe be agreeable to him, if the opening suggested should 
be made. The determination of Mc[C]l[ur]g would probably depend much on the cer- 
tainty of being appointed. I will write to him also." Library of Congress, Ac. 1081. See 
further Madison to Randolph Feb. 11, 1783, Writings, I. 364; Papers, I. 502. 

« See nos. 685, 687, 689, 690, ante. 
[696]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., II. (addressed, "Hon'le Josiah Bart- 
lett Esq Kingston State of New Hamp Free P. White " ) . 

2 Nos. 666, 676, ante; cf. nos. 710, 720, post. 

8 See no. 697, post. Concerning the privilege of franking see especially the 
Journals, Nov. 27, and Madison's Notes of Debates Dec. 6 (Jountals, XXIII. 863). 
[697]! Library of Congress, N. H. Papers. 



December, 1782 553 

transmitted you by the Secretary at War, but perhaps the propriety and 
Necessity of the measure may not so readily appear to the Hon'ble the 
Legislature; to which I shall only Say that it was Unanimously adopted 
by Congress after the most mature Deliberation," I have no doubt but all 
the other States will promote their Officers agreeably to the Resolution, 
and hope the State of New-Hampshire will promote their's as they will 
be Essentially Injured with respect to Rank if that is not the Case. 

Have not a Single Article of News of any kind more than is Contained 
in the Papers. 

698. Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox.^ 

Philadelphia 4 Deer., 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

This morning I reed, your Favor of the 2d of November. It gave me 
the more Sensible Pleasure, because I began to repent that I had not wrote 
you with Respect to the System for the Adjutant Genl. Department. And 
more especially, as you have mentioned with Freedom, a Matter which 
has given me no small Degree of Anxiety.^ .... 

I have endeavored to convince the Members of Congress that it would 
be best to recommend to the States individually, to Satisfy their Officers 
on Acct. of half Pay. my ill Success on this Head induced me to write 
Mr. Lowell for altho' no particular Question in Congress has been taken 
on the Matter of referring it to the Several States, yet when the Memorial 
of the deranged Officers of the Connecticut Line was before Congress 
last Summer, the Subject was largely debated ; and it was declared from 
various Quarters of the House, that if any State undertook to Satisfy 
their Officers for half pay, they would do it in their own wrong, and 
that it could not discharge Such State from Requisitions of Congress 
for half Pay." 

In this View could you have advised Mass'tts to have compromised 
with her Officers, and have thereby probably laid the Foundation of a 
very serious dispute with the foederal Union. I sincerely wish to render 
the Officers of the Mass'tts Line every Service in my Power : and nothing 
will give me greater Pleasure, than to let them know all my Views respect- 
ing them, and the Reasons on which I found them ; and if in their Opinion, 
they should not be Right, to hear their Objections. Heaven forbid that 
I should be obstinate or illiberal, in any system respecting them 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 4, 12, also Madison's Notes of Debates Dec. 4 (Journals, 
XXIII. 559), and no. 711, post. 

[698]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, X. 130. 

2 Cf. no. 619, ante. The omitted passage relates principally to a letter which 
Osgood had written to John Lowell. The letter is again alluded to in the next paragraph. 

3 Cf. nos. 633, 691, ante, 706, 710, post. The secretary at war (Benjamin Lincoln) 
wrote to Jeremiah Wadsworth Nov. 25 : 

" In reply to your letter of the 23rd instant, with which I have been honored, I am to 
observe that there can be no doubt that the retiring officers will be entitled to their pay 
and all the emoluments of office until the first day of January 1783. 

"Any mode therefore which may be adopted by you and them as well as those on fur- 
lough, for the regulation of their rations, will be agreeable to the public." Copied from the 
original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

39 



564 Continental Congress 

699. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

PoGHKEEPSiE Decem'r 5th 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I beg leave to submit to your Excellency the steps we took in 
the Case of General Clinton. The Principle on which the Rejection was 
founded was that the New York line was not entitled to a second Major 
General. I need not I hope assure your Excellency that nothing was 
omitted on my part which promised Success to the General's wishes.^ 

The Vermont business is undecided : but these rash men are in a fair 
way to ruin themselves. I trust Mr. Lhommedieu has fully stated this 
matter to your Excellency.* 

I enclose your Excellency the Acceptance of the New York Cession. 
You will observe that it is left on the best possible footing for our State. 
I feel myself happy in being the Instrument in accomplishing a Measure 
of such vast importance To our Country.* 

Our money affairs I defer till I have the pleasure of seeing your Excel- 
lency. Unless I have some Redress, this last attendance on Congress will 
affect me severely, for besides my loss I have overstaid the time prescribed 
for a month 



700. The President of Congress (Elias Boudinot) to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia Dec. 6, 1782. 
Sir, 

It gives me very particular satisfaction to have the honor of presenting 
you the Commission of the United States in Congress assembled, whereby 
you are Constituted one of the Judges of the Court of Appeals in all 
Cases of Capture on the Water etc.^ 

Your established Character as a Gent'n, Lawyer and Man of Integrity 
leaves me no room to doubt but this Appointment will do honor to Con- 
gress, produce the happiest Consequences to the good Citizens of these 
States and I hope real Satisfaction to yourself from the consciousness of 
serving your Country with fidelity. 

[699]! Clinton Papers, VIII. 55. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 14 (pp. 648, 65111.), and rules of promotion adopted 
Dec. 4. 

3 See no. 688, ante, and nos. 704, 705, post. 

■* See the Journals, Oct. 29, and nos. 673-675, ante. 
[yooJ^Hist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. iii; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 160; Boudinot, Life of Boudinot, I. 275; Read, Life of Read, p. 378. 

2 The election was on Dec. 5. See the Journals, Nov. 21, 22, Dec. 2, 5, 13, Madi- 
son's Notes of Debates, Nov. 7, Dec. 5 (Journals. XXIII. 844, 862), no. 587 ante, and 
no. 708, post. With regard to the appointment see the correspondence between James 
Read and George Read (Life of George Read, pp. 375-378 — letters of James Read Nov. 27, 
" September " [December] 3 ; letter of George Read Nov. 28). Read's acceptance, Dec. 10, 
is ibid., p. 379. Concerning the Court of Appeals see no. 456, note 2, ante. 



December, 1782 555 

701. Jonathan Arnold to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, December 6th, 1782, 
Sir, 

I have nothing more to communicate in respect to PubHc affairs but 
what the Extracts from the Journals of Congress, and my Colleagues 
and my joint Letters will do. Yet I cannot refrain from troubling your 
Excellency, with a few observations upon the Conduct of Mr. Howell, 
since my Arrival in this City and which I believe, from various reasons, 
has been invariably the same ever since he had a seat in Congress. 

It appears to have been his first and only wish to serve his Country, 
generally, and especially his Constituents, with unshaken fidelity, he has 
had no separate interested views, to lead him from these Objects. He 
clearly understood the Force of the Articles of Confederation, and dis- 
tinguished between the rights relinquished by the Separate States and 
those retained, and on this, appeared desirous to fix his decisions on such 
questions as were discussed. On other occasional and detached points, he 
ever showed a desire to [do] Justice, consistent with Honor and Economy, 
and judging that in many instances the gratuities and Salaries of the 
Civil Officers was beyond what the present Circumstances of the People 
could well bear he has missed no Proper Opportunity of speaking freely 
his opinion thereon, and to enforce the necessity of their Reduction. He 
has been Zealous and Active in endeavouring to obtain Justice in regard 
to the Western Territory, part of which is already Ceded. He has also 
exerted himself to obtain some effectual measures whereby the Public 
Accounts might be collected and settled, upon Constitutional principles 
and the Public Credit thereby restored, without the necessity of recurrence 
to measures unknown in and Contrary to such Principles. But I am sorry 
to say in this his exertions have hitherto proved fruitless. For his conduct 
in the preceding matters, he has been looked upon in an invidious light by 
those, whose principles and Conduct have been opposed to him. He has 
been treated with a Coldness and indifference, which must have been ex- 
tremely mortifying to his feelings, and which to avoid, would have swerved 
from the Purpose, any one, not endowed with an uncommon share of 
Firmness. 

As he is soon to return, I have reason to expect that the inveterate 
enmity which his honest and patriotic Zeal in his countrys cause has Raised 
in the breasts of those to whom he has necessarily been opposed, will be 
exerted, and follow him to his home and that the most unremitted in- 
dustry will be used to injure him in the State he has with so much 
integrity represented. My duty there fore* to the State to prevent imposi- 
tions upon them, and to him as a Colleague in whose confidence and 
friendship I have been singularly happy during my residence here, and 
with whom I have on most Occasions been united in sentiment, as to 
public measures, oblige me unknown to him to give this public Testimony 
of his Conduct. 

[70i]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782-1783; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 419. 



666 Continental Congress 

Hoping and trusting, whilst his principles and Conduct continue as at 
Present, he will have the love and esteem as well as the Approbation and 
Support of his Constituents, and be considered as he really is a very 
worthy and able defender of their Rights and liberties,^ 

I have the honor to be, 



702. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Decem'r 7th 1782. 
Sir, 

By a Resolve of Congress of Yesterday a Committee of Congress, con- 
sisting of the hon'ble Mr. Osgood, the hon'ble Mr. Mifflin, and the 
Hon'e Mr. Nash, was appointed to wait on our Legislature to urge them 
into a Compliance with the Impost. 

Those Gentlemen being respectable in their private, as well as public 
Characters, are well entitled to Attention and respect. This we cannot 
doubt they will recieve, tho' we cannot wish them Success in the business 
of their Appointment. We earnestly urged Congress to suspend this 
Measure until they should have recieved the State's reply to the demand 
of Congress, for an immediate and definite Answer, which was daily ex- 
pected, but urged in vain, — It seeming to be the sense of Congress, That 
no reasons would divert them from the Measure.^ 

The affairs of Vermont are drawing to such a serious Crisis that it is 
our request to be therein specially instructed. The State of New Jersey 
has lately instructed their delegates, That they consider the people of 
Vermont justly entitled to independence, by the Resolves of Congress, 
and to oppose every measure contrary thereto. 

Herewith enclosed are certified extracts from the Journals of Congress 
of Proceedings in regard to that people. Upon which no comment on our 
part will be necessary, we shall only observe that we cannot but consider 
the Resolve of the 5th Instant truly alarming. 

We have heard of Instructions to be sent forward from the October 
session of Assembly but none have yet come to hand.^ 

2 See nos. 702, 715, post. A letter from Arnold to an unknown correspondent Dec. 7 
is listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, part III., item 70. It is described as " giving a 
rather despondent account of the doings of Congress, complaining of high salaries paid 
officials and the non-payment of soldiers ". 

[702]! R. I, Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782-1783, p. 33 (signed by Arnold and 
Howell) ; Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., p. 402. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 6, 11, and nos. 686, 690, 693, 695-701, ante. The letter to 
Rhode Island reported by the committee Dec. 11 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 402, 
in Hamilton's Works (ed. Hamilton), I. 322, and in Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, 
I. 275. The same committee (Hamilton, Madison, and Fitzsimmons) prepared the reply 
to the letter of Speaker William Bradford. See the Journals, Dec. 12, 16, and Madison's 
Notes of Debates Dec. 16 (Jourtuils, XXIII. 867). Bradford's letter is also in Staples, 
R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 404. 

8 See the Journals, Dec. 12, and nos. 704, 706, 707, 714, 715, 718, 722, 723, post. 



December, 1/82 557 

703. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, December 7th, 1782. 
Sir: 

As we have in our Official Letter Informed your Excellency of all 
Matters that are of a publick nature and that Relate to our State, I shall 
only Remind you of my Situation with Respect to the means of Support : 
I did not Leave home with any Expectation of Coming to this place, 
unless the State in the first Instance did furnish me with money. But 
by your Excellencys Advise, Expecting that I should very Soon be Sup- 
plied I was Induced to come on. I am now here at my own Expense which 
I am not able to Sustain but a very Short time Longer, under those 
Circumstances your Excellency will easily Discover my Embarrassment 
and I hope Devise some way for my Relief that I may not be Involved in 
Difficulties that are Disgraceful to myself and to the State. 

from Sir your most obedt. and humble servt. 

Wm. Floyd. 

704. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 9th, 1782. 
Sir, 

Inclosed we have the honor to transmit Your Excellency sundry reso- 
lutions of Congress of the 5th instant; by which you will judge of the 
present temper of that body, respecting the affairs of the grants. We 
cannot, however, absolutely rely upon the execution of the coercive part 
of them if the matter should require an exertion of force. Many who 
at a distance adopt very decisive ideas, might shrink from a measure 
replete with consequences at least delicate, if not dangerous. The principal 
advantage we promise ourselves from these resolutions is, that they will 
give a complexion to the future deliberations on the subject and may 
induce Congress the more readily to adopt some moderate medium. It, 
therefore, becomes the policy of the State to facilitate as much as lies in 
its power this object, by doing everything (if anything remains undone) 
that may tend to conciliate the inhabitants of the Grants, and to take away 
all motives of opposition from the private interests of individuals or the 
other States. It is to be recollected in particular that a considerable part 
of the army is interested in grants of land to a large extent under the 
usurped government of Vermont. Much will depend upon their disposi- 
tion in the progress of the business, and it is, therefore, of primary im- 
portance that they should be secured at all events. We apprehend there 
should be a confirmation of their titles unfettered by any condition what- 
soever; if any are annexed by the acts of last Winter relative to that 
subject (which we do not find among our papers) we take the liberty to 
suggest that they will be worthy the future consideration of the legisla- 

[703] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of the Rosenbach Company. 
[704P Clinton Papers, VIII. 56 (signed by Floyd and Hamilton). 



558 Continental Congress 

ture. We enlarge the less on these topics as we are persuaded the wisdom 
of the State will distinguish and pursue the true line of policy upon this 
occasion, and will clearly perceive the propriety of moderation. 

Congress have resolved to send a deputation of three members to the 
State of Rhode Island to urge their compliance with the requisition of 
the five per Cent duty as a measure essential to the safety and reputation 
of these states. The members chosen are Mr. Mifflin, Mr. Nash and Mr, 
Osgood,*^ 

705. William Floyd to James Duane,^ 

Philadelphia, Decbr. 9th, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Since you left this place we have had phelps' Business on the Carpet 
and Congress have resolved that those persons should be Restored to their 
possessions, and property, it is done in pretty Spirited Terms and I hope 
will have good Effect,^ Congress are so Impressed with the necessity of 
the 5 per cent Duty that they have appointed a Deputation of Three, to 
go to Rhod Island and Endeavour to Convince that State of the propriety 
of the measure, the Gentlemen are Mifflin, Nash, and Osgood^ 

706, The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

[December 10, 1782,] ^ 
The public Creditors have for sometime past been extremely urgent 
for some effectual and permanent provision in their favor and seeing 
but little prospect of obtaining it from the United States are turning their 
applications to their own States. Those who are Citizens of Pennsylvania 
in particular have adopted this policy and the Legislature having rec'd 
no satisfactory answer to two memorials presented to Congress in their 
favor have been on the point of appropriating to their use a part of the 
requisition of Congress allotted for more essential objects. 

Should such a measure be resorted to by one State it would probably 
be received by the others as a signal to take care each of its separate 
interests. 

The Effects of such a step on the Union itself, on the Common Defense, 
on our national character and on the Councils of the Enemy need not 
be traced. 

2 See no. 702, ante. 
[705]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 519. 

2 Duane and L'Hommedieu obtained leave of absence Nov. 27. The action of 
Congress here referred to was on Dec. 5. See also the Journals, Oct. 10 (p. 645 n.), Nov. 
5, 8 (720 n.), 14, nos. 696, 699, 704, ante. 

3 See no. 702, ante. 

[706]! Va. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXVI. 151 (extract, with the conjectural date 
1781), 

2 The contents of the letter fix the date approximately. Dec. 10 is assumed to be 
the exact date, for the reason that the delegation letter normally bore the same date as 
Madison's letters (see no. 707, post), and all were, as a rule, written on Tuesday. 



December, 1/82 559 

The apprehension of them by Congress produced the inclosed instruc- 
tions to the Superintendent of finance.^ 

The resolution which follows deputing three of their members to Rhode 
Island to enforce the impost 5 per ct. was thought a precaution no less 
essential.* For besides the tendency of this fund if vested in the United 
States to prevent undue appropriations by the States we find by melan- 
cholly experience that the annual contributions of the States, if left to 
the entire appropriation of Congress are not only unequal to the annual 
expense, but unequal in point both of amount and punctuality to the 
interest of the annual expense. 

Unless some more effectual provision therefor be made for public 
credit every one must preconceive the dangers and perplexities which 
await us. 

The enemy already take courage from the prospect and the little progress 
made by Mr. Adams' Loan between his letter in June and his last in 
August makes it probable that the attention of our friends has also been 
drawn to this subject. Indeed their disposition to lend at all can only have 
resulted from an ignorance of our affairs which the enemy would take 
care should not be of long continuance. 

How far the repugnance of Rhode Island to the impost will yield to 
these considerations is uncertain, as it is how far they will further reconcile 
to that measure the States which have but partially acceded to it. Our 
duty however requires that we should submit them thro your Excellency 
to the Judgment of our constituents. 



707. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. loth Deer. 1782.'' 
My dear Sir, 

The Assembly of Penna. have with much difficulty been prevailed on 
to desist from a plan in which a part of the requisition of Congress 
allotted for other uses was to be appropriated to their citizen Creditors 
of the U. S. The consequences apprehended by Congress from such an 
example, and the probability that the plan will be renewed at the next 
meeting unless some intermediate provision be made for the credit of the 
U. S., have produced two Resolutions, ist, an instruction to the Superin- 
tend't of Finance to represent to the States the pernicious tendency of 
such unconstitutional appropriation; 2dly, a deputation of Mr. Osgood, 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 20, Dec. 4, 6, and Madison's Notes of Debates for the 
same dates (Journals, XXIII. 850, 860, 964) ; cf. no. 698, ante, and nos. 707, 710, post; also 
Madison's letter of Jan. 7, 1783, in the next volume. 

* See no. 702, ante, and nos. 707, 714, 715, post. 
[707] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 58; Writings, I. 277; Papers, I. 488. 

2 On Dec. id Randolph offered his resignation as a delegate in Congress, 
explaining that, although he had resolved to complete his term, " an obstacle of a public 
nature" had occurred within the last three weeks. He had been placed on a committee 
(Mason, Jefferson, Arthur Lee, Thomas Walker, and Randolph) to state the title of 
Virginia to the western territory; but Mason had declined, Jefferson was about to 
embark for Europe, and the committee could not suffer a further diminution. Va. State 
Lib., Executive Papers. 



560 Continental Congress 

Mr. Mifflin and Mr. Nash to enforce on Rhode [Island ] ^ the impost of 
5 pr. Ct. The latter Resolution besides its tendency to the immediate end 
proposed by the first, was called for * [by the general pressure of our 
necessities.] Our official letter encloses these Resolutions to the Executive, 
and hazards some [very free and alarming] remarks for [the legislature] 
directly pointing to [a fuller compliance] with [the impost.] I have 
added a private letter to the Governor which is still more explicit and 
pointed on the subject. In the present situation of our affairs we did not 
think less would justify us to ourselves or to our Constituents 

The Se'y of F. A. has resigned his office in form, but will continue 
to act for the present month to prevent an interregnum in the Department. 
The 19th instant is fixed for the choice of a Successor. No one has yet 
been put in nomination. ** 

By Mr. Jefiferson's letter to the Office of F, A. and a private one to 
myself, he may be expected here about the end of this month. It is 
improper therefore to address any thing to him. 

The Grand Committee have had another meeting on the subject men- 
tioned in a late letter. The scheme of Mr. Fitz[simo]ns was adopted 
with the [rates of] depreciation [left blank.] The ideas on this point 
varied from [forty to one hundred and fifty and upwards for one.] ® 

708. The President of Congress to John Lowell.^ 

Philadelphia nth Dec. 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

To perform the duty of a first servant of our Country, by presenting 
her confidential honors as the reward of Merit, is undoubtedly very pleas- 
ing to every generous mind ; but when the feelings of private friendship 
are at the same time highly gratified in so important a service, the reward 
is great indeed. With these sentiments permit me. Sir, to present the 
inclosed Commission by which you are appointed one of the Judges of 
the Court of Appeals, and most cordially to congratulate you on this 
instance of the high esteem your Country bears towards you. It is more 
worthy as it has been unsought for and unsolicited by you. 

I doubt not but the appointment will do honor to Congress and be 
really beneficial to your Country. 

P. S. I had forgot to inform you that Mr. George Read, a gentleman 
of great integrity and abilities of the Delaware State, was chosen at the 

3 The word " Island " was inadvertently omitted. Concerning this affair see 
nos. 693, 695, 702, 706, ante, no. 714, post. 

* " I make use of the Official Cypher as more familiar and equally proper here " 
(note in original, by Madison). Words in cipher are placed in square brackets. There is 
however no cipher for the word " by ", which the sense requires. 

' See the Journals, Dec. 3 ; also no. 695, note 5, ante, and no. 718, post. 

^ See no. 695, ante, and Madison's Notes of Debates, Nov. 26, Dec. 7 (Journals, 
XXIII. 854, 865). The words "left blank" are in cipher, 

[708] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 163; Boudinot, Life oj Boudinot, 
I. 279- 



December, 1/82 561 

same time with you in the room of Mr. Paca, resigned ; and in order to 
settle precedence between you, lots were drawn, when it turned in favor 
of Mr. Read ; wherefore, your commission is dated the day after his.^ 



709. The President of Congress to Thomas Chittenden.^ 

Philadelphia ii Dec. 1782. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of inclosing you a copy of an Act of Congress of 5th 
instant, respecting certain Acts and proceedings of the People inhabiting 
the District of Country on the West side of Connecticut River, commonly 
called the New-Hampshire Grants, which I beg you will communicate 
to the said People as soon as you conveniently can. 

I likewise request to be informed of the proceedings which may take 
place in consequence of the above mentioned Resolutions as soon as 
possible.^ 



710. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philada. Dec. nth, 1782. 
Sir, 

On the 9th Inst, we were Honored with your Letter of the 26th ultimo, 
Inclosing a Representation from Mr. Blanchard in behalfe of the New 
Hampshire Line and the Report of a Committee thereon.^ The subject 
of a settlement with the army for Pay, Depreciation and Retained Rations 
is now under consideration. The substance of the Report is, that Settle- 
ments should be immediately made by the United States up to the last 
Day of December 1781.^ 

You have Inclosed sundry Resolutions passed the 5th Inst, respecting 
the affairs of Vermont, a Resolution is now under consideration for 
assigning a Day when Congress will make their Final Determination 
respecting that Territory. This we Endeavoured to have determined in 
season to be Transmitted by this Post, but it has met with such obstruc- 
tions as has hitherto prevented ; it will probably be done in a few Days, 
as the final Determination of this matter is of very great Importance, 
we have to repeat the request that the Honorable the Legislature would 
be pleased to give their explicit Instructions on the subject.* .... 

2 See no. 700, ante. According to the Journals the action determining the rela- 
tive rank of the two appointees was taken Dec. 13. This postscript was therefore probably 
written not earlier than Dec. 13. 

[709]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, II. 112; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, p. 161. 

- See no. 694, ante. 
[710]! N. H. State Papers, X. 495 (signed by White and Gilman). 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3, 11, 13; cf. nos. 698, 706, ante. 

3 See nos. 712, 714, 720, post. 

* The letter closes with a request that a new delegation should be chosen in time 
to relieve them in the beginning of April next. 



I 



562 Continental Congress 

711. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.^ 

Philada. Deem. 16, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

Congress last thursday took up the report for establishing a Line of 
promotion for Brigadiers Similar to the one I lately informed you was 
rejected, which, owing to a number of New members or from other 
Cause, was passed: To this was added a clause for promoting your self 
and Colonels Grattan and Putman, but as the former part of the report 
had passed it was thought improper to pass this as it might not agree 
with the plan just established especially with regard to your self, as your 
Appointment would depend upon what state whose troops Those of New 
Jersey may be Brigaded with — if it should be with New York, you can 
have nothing to expect, but if with Delaware, I suppose you will Succeed 
of Course. This the Secretary at War gives me strong reasons to believe 
will be the case, but, however, must rest with the Commander in Qiief. 
As the Secretary at War Set of yesterday for Boston and will call at 
headquarters, by which time the General will be in possession of the 
Resolution, you may be able to know on what ground you stand by apply- 
ing to the Commander in Chief. The Delaware Regiment, it is said, is 
now on their way from the southward to join the main Army and may 
be joined to our Troops if the measure meet with the generals approbation. 
Matters being thus Circumstanced, It will not be in my power to give you 
any further information respecting this business. All rests with the general 
in forming Brigades.^ 

I am Dear Sir, 

Your obedt. Hum. Servt. 

Abra: Clark. 



712. John Taylor Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

(Private) Philada. Deer. 17th 1782. 

Hon'd Sir, 

.... By the latest accounts from Europe, it appears probable that 
Negociations for Peace will be seriously Entered upon soon, but their 
are many (Seperate) Interests to be adjusted which will probably require 
much time. 

The present designs of our Enemy are not known to us with so much 
Certainty as could wish, but it is the general Sentiment that they have 
relinquished the Idea of further prosecuting the war on this Continent. 
Indeed it is time for them for they have persisted in it to their Own (as 
well as our) great Injury. The Importance of the United States is daily 

[711 ]i Furnished by courtesy of Mr. Charles F. Jenkins of Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 4, 12; also nos. 567, 697, ante, and no. 719, post. For earlier 
letters respecting Dayton's promotion see these Letters, vol. II., p. 291, vol. V., pp. 492-493. 
[71a] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 105. 



December, IJ82 563 

Increasing abroad, But our affairs at Home are not in a pleasing Situation 
by any means, the want of Revenue is very great, our Army are unpaid, 
public Creditors Clamorous, and when we add to this a want of Confi- 
dence in the public and in the Several States towards each other our 
Embarrassments will appear (as they are in fact) very great, but we have 
Struggled through many difficulties, and our present troubles should by 
no means Operate as an Encouragement to our Enemy to prosecute the 
war, for they have repeatedly Seen (and I doubt not will again if nesessity 
requires it) these United States rise Superior to all difficulties, from 
some Information already received, are daily Expecting further Infor- 
mation respecting Negociations for Peace. I have (few Days Since) been 
informed that application has been made to New Hamp'e for Compleating 
their Two Battalions; this was unknown to Congress, and had I been 
informed of it Seasonably should have given my Sentiments on the Sub- 
ject. I Sent a list of the Army to Collo. Bartlett some Months Since,^ 
my Views were that you might know what number of the Troops in 
service belonged to N H. I am Sure the State has made Exertions the 
year past (in raising Troops) much beyond their abilities, and as I See 
no real Necessity for raising men at present, shall be pleased if they 
have rejected the proposition. 

.... I have marked this as private, my meaning is that it is not 
Intended for the perusal of the Hon'ble the Legislature, but you will please 
to make such other Communication of it as you may think proper 



713. The ViRGimA Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Phila: 17th Deer. 1782. 
S'r, 

We are honoured with your Excellencys favor of the 7th 

The inclosed Copy of a Letter from the Secretary of Congress to 
Mr. Clarke on the subject of the pasports for shiping Tobacco to New 
York, will shew the conduct of Mr. Thompson in the business and enable 
you to obtain a Satisfactory explanation from Mr. Clarke.' .... 

- See no. 576, ante. 
[713]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones and Madison) ; Cal. Fa. State 
Papers, III. 399 (abstract). 

2 Harrison's letter of Dec. 7 is in Official Letters, III. 394. He is replying to a 
statement in the delegates' letter of Nov. 26 (no. 692, ante), and declares, "The financier 
has been misinform'd, his agent never made any proposition to me to receive Tobacco on 
account of the Continent ". See also his letter to the delegates Nov. 30 (ibid., p. 391), and 
no. 519, note 4, ante. The letter from Secretary Thomson to Daniel Clarke, transmitted by 
the delegates, is dated May 3, 1782, and sends passports for vessels " sent from New York 
to carry away tobacco for goods sold under the capitulation at York ", together with 
instructions as to the maximum amount permitted. A letter from Clarke to Governor 
Harrison Dec. 6, saying that he had " the Financiers Orders to receive from the Honorable 
Executive of the State, such Tobacco as they may be pleased to allot him for the service 
of Congress ", is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers, and Harrison's reply, Dec. 8, is in 
Official Letters, III. 395. See further Harrison's letter to the delegates Jan. 4, 1783, ibid., 
p. 420. 



564 Continental Congress 

714. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 

Philada. 17th Deer. 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

Since the appointment of the deputation to Rho : Island Congress have 
reed, a copy of the refusal of the Legislature of that State to concur in 

the impost, with the reasons on which the refusal is grounded 

They are in the hands of a Committee who will report such observations 
as they may deem a fit answer to them. The deputation has not yet set 
out, but probably will in the course of the week.^ 

Vermont has been again on the tapis. Its only advocates were the dele- 
gates of Rho : Island who are charged with interested views in the case, 
and those of N. Jersey who are fettered by instructions from their Con- 
stituents. I understand that a Mr. Titchner, one of the Agents formerly 
here, is arrived from Vermont probably in consequence of a signal given 
of the revolution w'ch is taking place in the foederal Councils with 
respect to them. A little time will display his errand.* 

General Greene has referred to Congress a case which admonishes them 
of the necessity of a code for captures and recaptures on land as well as 
on water. A detachment of the continental forces having retaken a number 
of Horses which had been taken by the enemy from Citizens of S. Carolina, 
the Executive Authority of the State demanded a restitution, on the 
general principle that the original owners were entitled to all recaptured 
property. This demand was laid before a Council of officers which de- 
cided against its validity. The General has submitted the case to Congress 
for their final judgment. It appears from a review of the proceedings 
of Congress, that a very defective provision only has been made for 
captures, and no provision at all for recaptures, on land. The opinion 
of the Council of war is conformable to the practice of the Army in like 
cases, and to the rules observed by other nations. The demand of restitu- 
tion in favor of the original proprietors is warranted by the principles 
of equity and the spirit of the ordinance relating to Captures on water. 
All that Congress can do in the case will be to remit to the original owners 
the prize which has been adjudged to the U. S. But some general pro- 
vision for future cases will be necessary in which it will be not easy to 
define the species of property of which restitution may be claimed. To 
extend the rule to every species of property would open a door to in- 
numerable disputes and abuses. I observed on this occasion what had 
escaped me before, that if Congress should establish a court for Captures 
on land, such cases can come before it only on appeal.^ 

(Official Cypher) Letters from [Franklin and Jay, dated late in Septem- 
ber, show that a commission has been issued to Oswald to treat with Com- 

[714]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 59 (draft) ; Writings, I. 292; Papers, 
I. 489. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 11, 12, 16-18, 20, 24; cf. nos. 695, 702, 707, ante, 718, 722, 
post. See also Madison's Notes of Debates, Dec. 12-18 (Journals, XXIII. 867-868). 

8 See nos. 696, 704, 705, 710, ante, no. 720, post; also Madison's Notes of Debates, 
Dec. 10, n (Journals, XXIII. 866, 867). 

* Greene's letter appears to have been read in Congress Dec. 10. For action on the 
subject see the Journals, Dec. 23. 



December, 1782 565 

missioners of the Thirteen United States, by which some precedent ' 
obstacles were surmounted ; and that Spain meditates an immoderate defal- 
cation of our Western territory.] All this [intelligence however has come 
to us in obscure fragments. I commit it to you as to a member of Congress 
on whom secrecy is enjoined, and in this] cypher [as] certainly unknown 
[to all but official persons.] ^ . . . . 

715. Jonathan Arnold to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, December i8th, 1782.^ 
Sir, 

I have to inform you that although Mr. Collins arrived here this day 
week, Mr. Howell is still here, and how much longer he will be detained 
is unknown. Congress having taken such measures affecting him person- 

° In the printed texts the untranslated cipher 275 stands before the word " ob- 
stacles ". The official code gives for this cipher both president and precedent. 

" The letters referred to are, Franklin to Livingston Sept. 26, and Jay to Livingston 
Sept. 28 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 763, 779). See also Jay to Adams Sept. 28 {ibid., 
p. 778). Oswald's first commission (in translation), dated July 25, is ibid., p. 613. The 
second, dated Sept. 21, is ibid., p. 748. Cf. nos. 650, 656, 657, 660, ante. 

[715]! R. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1782- 1783; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 420. 

2 On Dec. 18 (probably) there was a proceeding in Congress not otherwise of 
record than in the following letter from Robert Morris to Washington, Dec. 27. The letter 
is dated from the " Office of Finance ", but Morris is acting in his capacity as agent of 
marine. 

" I am duly honored with your Excellency's Favor of the seventeenth Instant. Previous 
to the receipt of it Admiral Digby had transmitted the polite Application of which a Copy 
is enclosed. In Answer to it I wrote a Letter of which a Copy is also enclosed and which 
1 think Consists with your Excellency's Sentiments. As this Letter involved Engagements 
which were of an extensive Nature whether considered in a pecuniary or political Point 
of Light I thought it best to submit it to Congress, more especially as it militated in some 
Degree with their Resolutions. To avoid the tedious Discussions which might have 
attended any Resolution as well as to leave it on the Basis of a mere ministerial Act in 
which the Sovereign Authority might not be compromised in any supposable Case, I 
desired the President to read it and take the Sentiments of Congress without a formal 
Minute that so their Approbation or Disapprobation might be verbally expressed. This 
was done and the Letter was approved. What may be it's Fate with the Enemy I know 
not but hope it may prove agreeable to our Wishes." Library of Congress, Washington 
Papers. 

Washington's letter (dated Dec. 16, not 17) transmitted to Morris, as appertaining to 
his office, an extract from a letter of Sir Guy Carleton. " Your naval prisoners here ", 
Carleton wrote Washington, " are in want, as I am informed, of many necessaries to 
protect them against the inclemency of the winter. If it is not held proper by Congress 
that any exchange should take place, it seems however necessary that their confinement 
may be made as comfortable as the nature of the case will admit of." 

While Morris refers to Admiral Digby's letter to him (it is dated Dec. 3) as a "polite 
Application", it may more properly be characterized as caustic. "And will you", he says 
in one place, " murder your own people, prisoners, by letting them remain without cloathes 
during the winter, because there are not so many as you have of our soldiers — and for 
what? " In his reply to Admiral Digby, Dec. 18 (copy in Washington Papers), Morris 
stoutly defends his own course in the matter, then makes this proposition : " There has been 
so much Complaint upon this Subject on all sides that every Body must wish a final Settle- 
ment. To effect it I will now make you a plain and simple Proposition. Let us liberate 
all marine Prisoners on both Sides taking proper Receipts. Let us come to a Settlement 
of the Accounts as speedily as possible. If the Balance is against us I will pay you in money 
immediately according to the Terms of Cartel existing between England and France Pro- 
vided you will agree to do the like." It was this proposal to which Morris felt it was 
necessary to obtain the assent of Congress. 



I 



566 Continental Congress 

ally, and relative to his public Conduct, which renders his stay of abso- 
lute necessity.^ He has vindicated himself with a firmness becoming a 
Representative of a free State, and as the Liberties of the State and its 
rights, by Confederation I conceived to be invaded by the Measures pur- 
sued against him, he has had every support I could afford him. This has 
drawn on me the attention of Congress, and I am included with Mr. 
Howell in a Resolution of this day for referring to a Committee a Certain 
Motion made by Mr. Howell, and seconded by me, wherein were asserted 
the rights of a Delegate and the dangerous tendency of the measures 
pursuing, to their privileges, and to the Liberties and privileges of the 
United States, in the form of a declaration and protest. I have not time 
to copy and enclose it by this, but shall forward it by the next Opportunity. 
Where and when the matter will end, is impossible to say, but hope it will 
not change the Resolution of the Assembly in Respect to the Impost, which 
I am pursuaded it is calculated to do. I am certain it cannot when the 
Matter is fully known, and instead thereof, it might fix their opinion 
as expressed in the third Reason, which they stated to Congress, when 
their [sic'] communicated their Refusal therewith. Mr. Collins being 
absent and the post just setting off, I have not the Opportunity to write 
jointly with him. 

716. Daniel Carroll to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Paca).^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 21st, 1782. 
Dear Sir, 

I forwarded last Thursday under Cover to Air. Calhoun,^ two Letters 
from the Minister of France, one for your Excell'cy, the other for the 
Commanding officer of the French Marine in Chesapeake, and I now do 
myself the honor of sending with this, a Copy of a Memorial from the 
Assembly of Massachusetts, on a Subject which may eventually interest 
our State : ^ I request you Sir to communicate it to the General Assembly, 
likewise a Copy of an answer from Congress to the objections made by 
the Assembly of Rhode Island to the granting the 5 per Cent on imported 
goods. Three Members, Messrs. Osgood, Mifflin and Nash are appointed 
to proceed to Rhode Island on this Subject.* 

I beg leave to mention, that it is the Sense of Congress no other Copys 
should be taken of the answer at present, than those which the Delegates 
are permitted to Send to the Legislatures or Executives of their respective 
States 

^ Howell was granted leave of absence, on his application, Dec. 12, and the record 
in the Journals follows the presentation of the report on the publication of his letter. It 
seems probable however that the application may have been made prior to the report and 
that his determination to remain was taken m consequence of the report. See nos. 701, 702, 
704, 706, 707, 714, ante; also Arnold's letter of Jan. 8, 1783, in the next volume. Cf. 
Howell's letter of Oct. 16 with Oilman's of Sept. 17 (nos. 650, 618, ante). 
[716]! Md. Hist. Soc, LXXXyn. 342 (copy). 

2 James Calhoun of Baltimore. 

3 Doubtless the memorial of Oct. 21, read in Congress Nov. 26. See nos. 663 
(note 4), 693, 695, ante, no. 720, post. 

* See no. 715, note 3, ante. 



December, 1782 667 

[P. S.] Deer. 24th. Dispatches were received yesterday from Messrs: 
Franklin and Jay and the Marquis De La Fayette, dated about the middle 
of October. The Commission to Mr. Oswald is received, it empowers 
him to treat with the Commissioners of the thirteen United States of 
America. If it is possible to obtain a Copy in time I shall Send it by 
post. The Secretary for Foreign Affairs is directed to send one to each 
State." .... 

717. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 24th, 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

A Frigate has lately arrived from France and went on Shore in Our 
Bay in the Snow Storm, but has luckily got off again. Her dispatches 
are just come up and I heartily congratulate you on Great Brittain's hav- 
ing admitted our Independance, by sending Mr. Oswald to Paris with a 
Commission to treat of Peace with Com'rs from the 13 Colonies, which 
our Comm'rs absolutely refused to treat upon, in Consequence wherof 
Great Brittain has given up the Matter and issued a formal Commission 
to treat with " any Commissioner or Commissioners from the JJ united 
States of America" and to enter into all the necessary Stipulations as 
with an Independent Nation.^ The Rubicon is therefore Past and I am 
happy that my Expectations are likely to be fulfilled 

718. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.* 

Philada. 24th Deer. 1782. 
My dear Sir, 

Since my last the Danae a French frigate has arrived from France 
with money for the French army and public despatches.^ .... 

Mr. Livingston has been prevailed on to hold his office for this winter. 
The election of a successor was within a moment of being made when 
the practicability of retaining his services was discovered. The Gentlemen 

= See nos. 717, 718. 720, post. Jay's letter to Livingston Oct. 13, Franklin's 
Oct. 14, and Lafayette's to Washington Oct. 14 are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 809, 
811, 814. Concerning prior letters of Franklin and Jay relative to Oswald's commission 
see no. 714, ante. Other letters of approximate dates pertaining to the peace negotiations 
are in Wharton, V. 797, 803, 808, 809, 810. The articles agreed on between Oswald and the 
American commissioners, Oct. 8, are ibid., pp. 805-808. The intercepted letter of Marbois to 
which Jay refers in his letter of Oct. 13 is dated Mar. 13 and is ibid., p. 238, together with 
a discussion of the question of its authenticity. See also Madison's Notes of Debates. 
Dec. 23, 24 {Journals, XXIIL 870, 871) ; also Paca to the assembly Dec. 28 and to Carroll 
Jan. 23, in Arch, of Md., XLVIIL 330, 335, 336. 

[7i7]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Boudinot Papers, IL 115. 

2 See no. 716, note 5, ante. Madison mentions, in his letter of Dec. 24, the name 
of the frigate as the Danae. 

[718]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, I. 60; Writings, I. 294; Papers, 1. 491. 
- See nos. 714, 716, 717, ante, and no. 720, post; also Madison's Notes of Debates, 
Dec. 23, 24, .30, 31 {Journals, XXIIL 870-872, 875). Madison gives some account of the 
despatches, particularly of Oswald's commission. A letter of the same purport from the 
delegates (Jones and Madison) to the governor is in Cal. Va. State Papers, III. 403. 
It adds, however, " You will receive a copy of the Commission transmitted to Congress 
from the Secretary of foreign affairs." Oswald's commission, dated Sept. 21, is in Wharton 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., V. 748 ; also in N. C. State Recs., XVI. 419. 



668 Continental Congress 

in nomination were [General Schuyler] and Mr. [Clymer.] Mr. [Read] 
had been nominated but withdrawn.^ 

The deputation for Rhode Island is still here. A report that Maryland 
is receding with respect to the object of their mission, and information 
conveyed in a letter from Mr. Pendleton to me that Virga. on hearing of 
the unanimous refusal of R. I. had repealed her accession, by disarming 
them of their most pointed argument had produced great hesitation. They 
wait at present however only for intelligence with respect to Md. and 
Va. which was expected by yesterday's post. But the post is not even 
vet come.* 



719. Elias Boudinot to Elias Dayton.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 25 1782. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have been repeatedly engaged in endeavouring to settle 
some permanent Rule for the promo [tion] of Colls, to the Rank of 
Brigadiers. Your promotion, which we have Invariably insisted on, pre- 
vious to our Consenting to any rule that would exclude you, has prevented 
several Essays, from being carried into Execution. At length it has been 
proposed and resolved, that the Army should be divided into three districts 
and where the Troops of two States formed one Brigade, the eldest Col. 
should be promoted to the Command." .... 

3 See nos. 695, 707, ante, the Journals, Dec. 19, 21, and Madison's Notes of De- 
bates, Dec. 21 (Journals, XXIII. 869). The three names are in cipher. George Read's 
acceptance of the appointment to the Court of Appeals had just been received (Dec. 19). 
* See nos. 707, 714, ante, and nos. 722, 723, post, the Journals, Dec. 18, 20, 24, and 
Madison's Notes of Debates, Dec. 20, 24 (Journals, XXIII. 869, 870). 

In consequence of a motion of Howell Dec. 18, Congress resolved Dec. 20 that the 
motion, with the preceding resolutions to which it refers, together with " an authenticated 
state of the several applications for foreign loans, and the result thereof ", be transmitted 
by the secretary for foreign affairs to the executive authority of Rhode Island. From 
Madison's Notes of Debates Dec. 20 (Journals, XXIII. 869) it is learned that there was a 
discussion whether the official to transmit these documents should be the secretary of 
Congress, the President, or the secretary for foreign affairs. Livingston's letter to the 
governor of Rhode Island, dated Jan. 4, 1783, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., VI. 194. 
See further Howell's motion Dec. 27, his statement and motion (the motion withdrawn) 
Dec. 31, and the consequent order; also the Journals, Jan. 2, 3, 1783. 

The Howell incident gave rise to a motion by Richard Peters to establish a further 
rule and pledge of secrecy on the part of members of Congress. The matter was referred 
to a committee (Peters, Williamson, and Oilman) to report upon, and the committee's 
report is found in the Journals under Dec. 23, the date indicated by the endorsement as 
that of the appointment of the committee. Madison's Notes of Debates show that the 
report was brought in on Jan. 10, 1783, discussed, and finally withdrawn (Journals, XXV. 
849-850). 

The last paragraph of Madison's letter of Dec. 24 (see the printed text in Writings and 
in Papers), relative to the embarkation of the French troops and Rochambeau's assur- 
ance of their instant return in the event that war should be renewed, is largely in cipher and 

is preceded by the words " Of 1 Cy r ". One or two words at the close of the 

paragraph are missing. The sentence should doubtless read, " I need not give other intima- 
tions of secrecy on the points than the nature of them and the use of the cypher [will 
suggest] ". 

[719]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Boudinot. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 4, 12, 1782, and Jan. 7, 1783; also no. 711, ante, and 
Boudinot to Dayton, Jan. 7, 1783, in the next volume. 



December, I/82 569 

720. Phillips White to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

^•^ Philadelphia Deer. 25th, 1782. 

by a vessel arrived here from France, Congress have received from our 
Ministers there, a Copy of the Commission to the Minister Plenipotentiary 
from the British Court, to treat with them on terms of peace, Sundry 
letters accompanyed said Copy the Contents of which I am not at liberty 
to communicate. I flatter myself that peace is at no great distance; but 
however flattering affairs appear, the Negotiation may break off without 
a peace. 

No certain account that the Enemy have left Charleston, but expect 
it every day. by many circumstances there is reason also to think that 
New York will be evacuated by them within a short time. Nothing further 
done on the affair of Vermont. 

No final determination with respect to Continental Bills now in the hands 
of individuals, or in any State Treasury, more than their Quota, although 
much time has been spent on the Subject, the affair is to be taken up again 
next Tuesday.^ 

A resolve has passed that the Prizes in the fourth Class of the Cont'l 
Lottery be paid in Certificates at the rate of one Dollar for forty. 

PS the Secretary of Foreign affairs is directed to send a copy of the 
above said Copy of the British ministers Com'n to each of the united 
States. 

721. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 
My Dear, Philadelp'a 28th Deer. 1782. 

.... I mentioned in my last " that his Britannick Majesty had issued 
a Commission to treat with the States of America under that Diseription, 
which necessarily implys our Independence, but considering the Duplicity 
of the Enemy, The Volatility of their Councils, the Various Interests to 
be adjusted, the speedy settlement of peace is an Event that cannot be 
depended upon, but perhaps We have more Reason to expect that the 
present negotia[tio]n which is now going forward, will conclude in that 
Manner, than We have had at any former Period.^ No News of the 
Evacuation of Charles town and I think that it will not take place till 
Peace shall be settled 

';22. James Madison to Edmund Randolph.^ 
My dear Sir, ^ Philada. Deer. 30, 1782. 

Your favor of the 13th instant arrived a few minutes after I sealed 
my last. That of the 20th came duly to hand yesterday. The sensations 

[720]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, XI. 93. 

2 See no. 716, note 3, ante, and the letters of White and Gilman to Bartlett, Jan. 9, 
1783, in the next volume. 

[72i]iConn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, HI. 67 (addressed to Mrs. Laura Wolcott, 
Litchfield). 

2 Dec. 25, ibid., HL 66. 

3 See nos. 716-718, ante. 

[722]! Library of Congress, Madison Papers, L 61; Writings, I. 296; Papers, I. 494. 

40 



670 Continental Congress 

excited in Mr. Jones and myself by the Repeal of the law in favor of 
the Impost were such as you anticipated. Previous to the receipt of your 
information a letter from Mr. Pendleton to me had suspended the progress 
of the Deputies to Rhode Island. Yours put an entire stop to the mission, 
untill the plan or some other can be [now] ^ extended to the case of 
Virga. The letter from the Govr. of the same date with your last, gives 
a hope that our representations may regain her support to the impost, 
without further steps from Congress. Your doubt as to her power of 
revoking her accession would I think have been better founded, if she 
had not been virtually absolved by the definitive rejection of Rho : Island ; 
altho' that rejection ought perhaps to have been previously authenticated 
to her. I beg you to be circumstantial on this subject especially as to the 
parties and motives which led to the repeal, and may oppose a recon- 
sideration.^ 

Mr. [Jefiferson] * arrived here on friday last, and is industriously arm- 
ing himself for the field of negociation. The commission issued to Mr. 
Oswald impresses him with a hope that he may have nothing to do on 
his arrival but join in the celebrations of victory and peace. [Congress] 
however anxiously espouse the expediency of his hastening to his desti- 
nation." 

General McDougal, Col. Ogden and Col. Brooks arrived yesterday 
on a mission from the army to Congress. The representations with which 
they are charged have not yet been handed in but I am told they breathe 
a proper spirit and are full of good sense. I presume they will furnish 
new topics in favor of the Impost which alone promises a chance of estab- 
lishing that credit by which alone the inadequacy of taxation can be 
supplied.® 

The French fleet and army sailed a few days ago frorri Boston [for 
the West Indies.] .... 



22^. The Virginia Delegates to the Govern'or of Virginia 
(Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Yesterdays post brought us your Excellencys favor of the 2ist.^ 
.... We shall be happy to hear that such parts of our Letter upon the 

- A small word is here nearly obliterated. 

3 See no. 718, ante, and no. 723, post. 

* " Jefferson ", as also " Congress " and " for the West Indies ", below, are written 
in the new cipher forwarded by Randolph Nov. 22 and acknowledged by Madison Dec. 3. 

^ See the Journals, Dec. 30. For a discussion of the instructions to the peace com- 
missioners see Madison's Notes of Debates Dec. 30 {Journals, XXIII. 872) ; cj. the notes 
for Dec. 23, 24 {ibid., pp. 870, 871), and no. 718, ante. 

" See no. 723, note 3, post. 
[723]^ Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Jones and Madison); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, III. 408. 

2 Harrison's letter is in Official Letters, III. 410. With regard to the action of 
Rhode Island respecting the impost measure he remarks : " it has always been a surprise 
to me that R. Island should act as she has done, the necessity of a fund to pay off the 
Interest due from the Continent is so very obvious that where sense is not wanting, I should 
be very apt to think the Man a bad one who refused to comply with the requisition of 



December, 1^82 571 

subject ^ as your Excellency was pleased to lay before the Assembly may be 
thought so far to deserve the attention of that honorable body as to pro- 
duce a renewal of the Law in the latitude recommended by Congress, 
especially as the example of a repeal may be followed by other States, 
and that evil prevented by such a conduct in Virginia, if not good pro- 
duced by it in a contrary direction, and will leave Congress at least in 
possession of the power full argument that the measure has been approved 
by the other States, to urge a compliance on the part of R. Island 

Phila: 31st Deer. 1782. 

Congress on that subject, or that should in any manner attempt to wound the little credit 
that is left us." Replying to this letter of the delegates Harrison wrote (Jan. 11, 1783, 
ibid., p. 424), "Why the Bill laying an impost of 5 per cent on imported articles was 
repealed is left to conjecture, other than is declared by the preamble ". 

3 In the omitted passage the letter mentions the recall of the delegation to Rhode 
Island in consequence of the information that Virginia had repealed her assent to the 
impost measure. See nos. 718, 722, ante; also the letters of Samuel Wharton, Madison, 
and Jonathan Arnold, Jan. 6, 7, 8, 1783, respectively, in the next volume. 
