
i. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare). 1 

New York Jany. ist, 1785. 

5V, 

I have the honor to inform your Excell'y of my arriving at Trenton 
the day Congress adjourned to this city to meet the nth Instant by the 
inclosed paper you will see their Resolves for that purpose. My next will 
be by a vessel bound from this place to Portsmouth, by whom I expect 
to transmit the Journals of Congress so far as they may be prepared at 
that time. 

P. S. I expect Mr. Foster will be here in a few days from Princetown 
where I left him two days ago. 2 

2. James Monroe to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

Phila. Jany. ist, 1785. 
Sir, 

I transmit to your Excellency the resolutions of Congress respecting 
the places of their temporary and permanent residence. In the first 
view, the question was put on Phila. and negativ'd, Pensyl'a Virga. 
and the three southern States voting for it ; then on N. York and carried, 
the southern States, except Georgia, acceding to the measure. Every State 
seem'd sensible of the necessity of our removal from Trenton, for the 
several delegations exclusive of the officers of Congress and the foreign 
ministers could not obtain tolerable accomodations there, and we had 
already experienced inconvenience from these circumstances. We put 
the question upon Georgeton for our permanent residence but it was 
negativ'd : it was then put on the falls of the Delaware and carried by 
8 states. Sensible of the propriety of coming to some decision upon this 
subject, from a conviction that the publick name and character must suffer 
from their remaining longer in the late fluctuating state, all Congress 
shew'd an earnest solicitude to effect it the majority of the states were 
decidedly in favor of the latter position, and we had only the alternative 
left us of acceding to a measure which the superior voice of the Union 
required, or to frustrate it and keep the business fluctuating as heretofore, 
which could be effectual only in the absence of N. Hampshire and Con- 
necticut, whose delegations were daily expected and we prefer'd the 
former course. 2 

[i]i Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 163. 

2 See nos. 5, 7, 8, post. 
[2] l Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (copy). 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 20-23, 1784; cf. vol. VII., nos. 743, 745; also nos. 5, 23, 25, 
28, 33-38, 51-53, 95, 101, post. James Duane wrote to Col. Robert Livingston from New 
York, Jan. 6: " You will learn that Congress have adjourned from Trenton to this place 



2 Continental Congress 

3. Thomas Stone to the Maryland General Assembly. 1 

Gentlemen, 

The legality of arresting Captain Henry Carbery by a warrant from a 
committee of Congress having been questioned, and I being a Member of 
the Committee and desirous that the General Assembly should be fully 
informed of the part I took in this and every other Measure while acting 
as their Delegate in Congress beg leave to submit the following State of 
facts relative to this Subject. On the 16th of March last information 
was given to Congress as I understood, that Capt. Carbery and Mr. Sul- 
livan were in a Vessell lying in the harbour of Annapolis in consequence 
of which upon the Motion of Mr. Reed of South Carolina a Committee 
was appointed to take Measures for their arrest, upon enquiring it was 
found that the information given to Congress was erroneous. On the 23d 
of April Mr. Reed who was of the Committee brought in a report stating 
to Congress that Capt. Carbery was in Baltimore Town and concluding 
with offering a Resolve requesting the Executive of Maryland to arrest 
him. I suggested the Propriety of transmitting the proof against Capt. 
Carberry which was in the possession of Congress to the Executive of 
Maryland, without which I was apprehensive the Executive might be 
under some difficulties in carrying into effect the request of Congress. 
It was thought this would take up some time, the Governor was out of 
Town and it was not known whether there were Members of the Council 
in town sufficient to make a board. Congress seemed very desirous that 
a Man who it was thought had a principal hand in causing them to re- 
move from Philadelphia, should be immediately arrested and secured 
and after some debate on the Subject referred the Matter to the Com- 
mittee to take orders therein and I was added to the Committee in the 
place of Mr. Lee who was absent. The Committee met after the adjourn- 
ment of Congress, and determined to issue a Warrant to Mr. Henry 
Gassaway to arrest Capt. Carbery and bring him before a Judge of the 
General Court of this State to be dealt with according to Law, in Con- 
sequence of which a Warrant was issued and signed by all the Com- 
mittee and Copy of which is herewith sent and Capt. Carberry was 
arrested and brought before the honorable Mr. Goldsborough and the 
Committee laid before him such proofs as were in possession of Con- 
gress, and made the reports of their proceedings as stated in the printed 
proceedings of Congress of the 28 April herewith transmitted. What 

where they have resolved to continue till a federal Seat on the Delaware is fixed for their 
accommodation. There is no doubt but this Measure will be of advantage to the City and 
State by making us for a season — perhaps a long one — the Center of the Union, and by 
encrcasing a Circulation of Specie : and the Consumption at Market. I know not of any 
on whom it will fall so hard as on myself, as it will expose me to expence which I cannot 
well afford or to the Imputation of meanness if I neglect the numberless Civilities which I 
have received abroad in the Course of the War ; or do not live up to the Rank I hold 
in Life" (letter furnished by courtesy of Mr. Johnston L. Redmond of New York). Duane 
was mayor of New York City. See no. 14, note 2, Post. 

[3I 1 Maine Hist. Soc. Revolution, no. 6 (addressed, "The Hon'ble President of the 
Senate and Speaker of the House of Delegates"). 



January, 1785 3 

was done in Consequence of the Arrest and Proceeding of Congress is 
not for Me to say being altogether unconnected with the Point which 
I mean to submit to the Legislature. The several Affidavits herewith 
sent — The knowledge of the facts by Members of Congress and some 
of the Committee, the Riot at Philadelphia and it's Consequences 
be[ing] notorious and public — were the Evidence upon which the Com- 
mittee proceeded. The Principle upon which the Warrant was issued 
was that in Cases where Crimes of high and dangerous Nature had 
been committed and there was knowledge or proof of the Commission 
it was not only lawfull but the duty of every Citizen and body of Men 
independent of all positive Authority to take the most effectual Meas- 
ures for arresting the perpetrators and bringing them before the Con- 
stitutional Judiciary power for examination and Trial, and that if such 
a power could not be exercised the Assembly of the united States might 
at any time be broke up or destroyed before an adequate remedy could 
be applied. I believe it was not considered by any Member of the Com- 
mittee of what State Capt. Carbery claimed to be a Citizen but it was 
thought none could justly be offended by his being arrested and his 
Case submitted to a judicial determination according to the Law of the 
Land. The Committee called on Mr. Gassaway to execute their warrant 
not merely because he had been a Military officer as has been very unjustly 
alledged but because he was thought to be a Gentleman who would conduct 
the business with strict propriety. 

I have thus given the Assembly a State of facts relating to this affair 
which I should have done sooner but expected the Delegates would have 
been called on to give an Account of their Proceedings before one or both 
branches of the Legislature, in the Course of which I intended to have 
stated and explained this Subject and to have submitted my Conduct 
therein to the determination of the Assembly, but apprehending there is 
no reason now to suppose the Delegates will be called before either house 
this Session I can no longer either consistently with my duty to the 
assembly or my engagement to the public withhold this Communication, 
which I hoped it would not have been necessary for me to make before a 
determination on Capt. Carbery's Case, as I have, tho urged by Abuse in 
the public papers, carefully avoided every Measure which might in any 
degree make an impression unfavourable to him, and I do not mean by 
this address any thing further than to give the General Assembly a State 
of facts necessary to be known previous to a determination upon my Con- 
duct in the case referred to. I state the Motion of the 16 of March from 
information and the report and resolve proposed the 23d of April from 
Memory, neither of them appear on the Printed Journals of Congress and 
the Secretary to whom I wrote for every thing relative to this Subject 
sent me only the copies inclosed and a Copy of a Letter from Mr. Carbery 
to Congress after he was arrested, which having no relation to the ques- 
tion upon the legality of the arrest I did not think necessary to inclose. 
I believe it is not the practice of Congress when Motions or reports are 
referred to take Order, to enter them on the Journals, and probably Mr. 
Thomson could not readily find these papers after the removal from 



4 Continental Congress 

Annapolis. I have however consulted Mr. J. T. Chase who was in Con- 
gress with me and recollects what passed on the 23d of April as I have 
stated it. 

Holding Myself responsible to the General Assembly for my Conduct 
in Congress I shall with chear fullness submit to their determination upon 
the part I acted in this affair in which if I have erred I trust the Legis- 
lature will do me the Justice to believe that I was not influenced by a 
Desire to injure or oppress an Individual, but was governed by principles 
which appeared to Me to be just in discharge of what I esteemed my Duty 
as a Citizen and Delegate of Maryland. 2 

Annapolis, Jan. 11. 1785. 

4. David Howell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

New York, January 12th. 1785. 
Sir, 

As I arrived at Trenton before a Congress was formed I proceeded 
directly forward to Philadelphia and applied at the office of the paymaster 
general for the settlement of accounts in behalf of our State's short levies, 
agreeably to order of Assembly. After putting this business in train 1 
returned to Trenton and took a seat in Congress on the first day of the 
session 

As I voted against the resolution of Congress, which puts all the 
Letters received from our Foreign Ministers under an injunction of 
Secrecy, by the yeas and nays, which, by the way, are not published in 
our Journals, I have a right to offer that as an Apology to the State for 
not sending forward an account of the contents of such Letters as haw- 
been received since I left Congress last Summer. Such parts of them, 
however, as are thought necessary to answer certain purposes will be 
sent forward to the States, but under the strictest injunctions of 
Secrecy. 2 .... 

2 Concerning Capt. Henry Carbery and Lieut. John Sullivan, leaders in the mutiny 
of June 178.3, see vol. VII., nos. 571, 574, 590, 605, 687. Cf. no. 432, note 2, post. 

Under date of Monday, Jan. 17, 1785, the Votes and Proceedings of the House of 
Delegates of the State of Maryland, November Session, 1784 (p. 108) contains the follow- 
ing resolution: " On the second reading of the letter from Thomas Stone, Esq; respecting 
the arrest of captain Carberry by a warrant from a committee of congress, of which 
Mr. Stone was one, Resolved Unanimously, That this house repose the highest confidence 
in the integrity, honour, and abilities, of Mr. Stone, and in his attachment and affecti< 
the rights and liberties of the citizens of this state; and that on consideration of all the 
circumstances of the case, as communicated by Mr. Stone, this house do approve his 
conduct, and the part he acted as one of the said committee of Congress." The resolution 
was " Sent to the Senate for their concurrence ", and under Jan. 19 the proceedings of 
the house contain the following record : " The resolution respecting Thomas Stone. I 
endorsed; 'By the Senate, January 19, 1785; Read and unanimously assented to. By 
order, J. Dorsey, elk.' " Ibid., p. 111. 

f4] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783- 1785, p. 50; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 519. 

2 The resolution referred to is that of May 3, 1784. Besides Howell, only one other 
delegate voted against the resolution, namely, Mercer of Virginia. For something of the 
antecedents of the resolution see vol. VI.. pp. 509, 555, 556, 568, vol. VII., pp. 7-10, 16, 30, 
123; cf. nos. 13, 23, 33, post. 



January, 1785 5 

5. Abiel Foster to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare). 1 

New York Janu'ry 14th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the hon'r to inform your Excellency of my safe arrival in this 
City on the seventh Instant, where I joined my Hon'ble Colleague Mr. 
Long. He informed me he had enclosed a Paper containing the resolu- 
tion by which Congress stood adjourned from Trenton to this place. 
This Sir will superceed the necessity of my being particular on this Head. 

By the resolution you[r] Excellency will perceive Congress seem deter- 
mined to erect buildings for their accommodation near Trenton, and in 
the mean time to reside in this City. If this object could be effected it 
would doubtless be convenient; but I conceive a considerable time must 
elapse before it can be accomplished, especially when I consider that the 
Houses for the accommodation of the several Delegations must be built 
by their respective States. 

If the late movement however, does but serve to fix Congress, untill the 
puhlic Buildings are prepaired for its reception, it will be better than the 
late disposition of removing from place to place. The removal of Presi- 
lents Houshold, and the Offices of Congress, must have taken some time ; 
the recess was perhaps longer than was absolutely necessary for the 
purpose, but it was the Voice of seven states, and dissentients were obliged 
to acquiess in this, as well as in the Vote to adjourn from Trenton. 

On the thirteenth Instant seven States attended at City-Hall, and pro- 
ceeded to business. It is my earnest wish that attention, and diligence may 
retrieve the time lost in the removal. 2 



6. Hugh Williamson to the President of Pennsylvania 
(John Dickinson). 1 

New York, Jany. 14th, 1785. 
Sir, 

Yesterday Congress received a letter from the Governor of the State 
of Connecticut, dated the 24th December, 1784, inclosing a Resolve of 
the General assembly of that State upon the memorial of John Franklin 
and others, settlers and claimants of Lands, etc., to which the right of 
jurisdiction was lately in contest between the States of Connecticut and 
Pennsylvania. 

[5] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 163. 

2 Jay wrote to the commissioners in Europe Jan. 14 : 

" On the 2 1st ultimo I accepted the place of Secretary for Foreign Affairs. All the 
foreign letters which had been received during the recess of Congress were then, and 
are still, in the hands of a committee to whom they had been referred. None have since 
arrived. 

" The adjournment from Trenton to this place necessarily occasioned delay in business. 
Congress yesterday made a House, and I expect some of these more important measures 
will soon be matured" (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 562). Cf. no. 2, note 2, 
ante. 

[6] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 449. 



6 Continental Congress 

The memoralists bring complaints against the Executive of [and] 
the Citizens of Pennsylvania which are sufficiently pointed and bitter 
of which I shall not trouble you with a copy, as the paper is pretty long, 
and you may already have received such copy from Governor Griswold. 

The act of Assembly transmitted to Congress is in the following 
words. . . . 2 

The letter from the Governor of the State of Connecticut and the 
inclosed papers, are referred to a committee of the whole House which is 
to sit on Tuesday the twenty fourth instant. 

If there had been any member present from the State of Pennsylvania, 
it would have been their duty to inform your Excellency of the Train in 
which this unpleasing but very serious business is placed, and they would 
doubtless, in a more clear and pointed manner than I have been able to 
do it, have justified the State in shewing that her late conduct on this 
very head is a full proof that she is by no means inattentive to the cries 
of those who complain. 

As you may probably wish to be represented in Congress when the 
Letter and other papers from Connecticut are to be considered, or may 
at least wish that Congress be fully informed of the late as well as the 
former proceedings of the Executive and Legislative of Pennsylvania 
respecting those Susquehanna claimants, I have taken the liberty of giv- 
ing you the above information as I cannot cease to feel myself interested 
in the Peace and Reputation of a State which gave me Birth. 8 



7. Abiel Foster to the President of New Hampshi 
(Meshech Weare). 1 

\'i:w York 15th January 1785. 
Sir, 

In the Letter of Yesterday 2 which I had the hon'r to address to 
Excellency, I forgot to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 
sixteenth of Decem'r. It did not come to hand untill my arrival in this 
place, and I imediately enclosed it to the Deputy Pay Master at Phila- 
delphia, requesting him to furnish me as early as possible with the in- 
formation which you were pleased to desire: I shall forward it without 
loss of time on the receipt. 

2 The Connecticut act is quoted verbatim. 

8 See vol. VII., nos. 489, 493, 522, 535, 548, 550, 577, 593, 612. 625, 686, 690: cf. nos. 
II, 17, 21, 32, 45, 50, post. Governor Griswold's letter to Congress Dec. 24 is in Pa. Arch.. 
first ser.. XI. 451, and a letter to President Dickinson on the subject, Dec jo, is ibid,, 
p. 447. The memorial of John Franklin, Ebenezer Johnson, and Phineas Piem 
1784, is ibid., X. 681 ; the Connecticut act, including the resolve quoted by Williams* 
ibid., p. 683. President Dickinson's reply to Williamson, Jan. 18, is ibid.. X. 397. See also 
Dickinson to Congress Jan. 18, to the Pennsylvania delegates Jan. 18, and to James W r i 
Jan. 20, ibid., pp. 397-400. 

[7] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 163. 

2 No. S, ante. 



January, 1785 7 

8. Pierse Long to John Sullivan. 1 

New York Jany. 15th, 1785. 
Dear General, 

Your very agreeable favour of the 7th ulto. I received the morning I 
left Portsmo. Your expressions of Friendship contained therein, claim 
my warmest acknowledgments. The Hon'ble Mr. Foster my worthy 
Colleague (who presents his respectful complim'ts) informs me the Baron 
Stuben has not as yet made any applications to Congress — no doubt when 
that time comes his merit will have due weight with that Body. 2 I have 
no doubt but ere this you are acquainted with the resolves of Congress 
to build a federal Town, and till that is compleated to hold there sessions 
in this City, please to accept of the inclos'd tho' barren paper. 

9. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York Jany. 16, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to you last by the post that left Trenton 
just before I quitted that place, 2 and I should not so soon have troubled 
you again, if it were not to furnish you with the very excellent pamphlet 
that accompanies this letter. Dr. Price has lately sent over a few of those 
pamphlets to the President of Congress and left the disposal of them to 
him. I am very sure that I shall gratify the Doctors feelings as well as 
my own, when I request your acceptance of one of them. 3 .... 

10. Samuel Hardy to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York 17 January, 1785. 2 
Sir, 

I do myself the honour to transmit to your Excellency the enclosed 
Copy of a Memorial from some of the Citizens of Virginia praying to be 

[8] '•Mass. Hist. Soc, Sullivan Papers, I. (addressed, " [Ho]n'le Jno. Sullivan, Dur- 
ham, State N. Hampshire"). 

2 A memorial from Steuben, Feb. 5, .1785, was laid before Congress Feb. II. See 
further the Journals, Mar. 17, 23, 24, May 13 (p. 333 n.), June 13, July 5, 13, Sept. 27; 
cf. nos. 120 (note 3), 233, 286, 539, 545, 754, 856, post. 

[9] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 321 (with 
the date Jan. 10). 

2 These Letters, vol. VII., no. 742, dated Dec. 26. 

3 This was Observations on the Importance of the American Revolution, and the 
Means of making it a Benefit to the World, by Dr. Richard Price (London, 1784). It was 
reprinted in Philadelphia and in Charleston in 1786 (see Evans, Am. Bibl., VII. 61). 
Washington acknowledged receipt of the pamphlet in his letter to Lee Feb. 8 (Writings, 
ed. Sparks, IX. 91). See also his letter to Benjamin Vaughan Feb. 5 (ibid., p. 90) ; cf. 
no. 186, post. It was this pamphlet that stirred Jefferson to write his letter of Aug. 7, 1785, 
to Dr. Price on the subject of slavery (Writings, ed. Ford. IV. 82). 

[io] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 3; W. W. Henry, 
Patrick Henry, III. 268. 

2 Richard Henry Lee wrote to Thomas Lee Shippen Jan. 17 (Letters, II. 322), 
" Colo. Monroe is returned, and is now in this City, and so is Colo. Spaight ". 



8 Continental Congress 

indulged with a seperate Government. It came enclosed in a letter from 
Arthur Campbell to the President of Congress, who I suppose was the 
parent of the Scheme. 8 

In my last I informed you of the removal of Congress from Trenton 
to this place, [and the] passage of an ordinance establishing the temporary 
and permanent Residence of that body. 



ii. Joseph Gardner to the President of Pennsylvania 
(John Dickinson). 1 

New York, Jany. 19, 1785. 
Sir, 

Herewith I have the Honor to enclose to your Excellency a copy of 
three papers presented by the Delegates of Connecticut in Congres tend- 
ing to revive the old dispute between the two states. I did not arrive here 
till yesterday afternoon, consequently had it not in my power to transmit 
copies earlier, it will be impossible for Council to forward such papers 
and information upon that subject before the day it is ordered for con- 
sideration in a committee of the whole which you will observe by the 
indorsement, but suppose it will not be attended with difficulty to get it 
postponed until the papers can be received. I hope your Excellency and 
the Council will see the necessity of forwarding all the information in 
your power upon this subject since the decree of Trenton as soon as pos- 
sible. Mr. Henry is not yet arrived — should he not have left Philadelphia 
Council will have it in their power to avail themselves of giving him every 
verbal information, and of a safe conveyance by him. 2 

8 The " Memorial of the Freemen inhabiting the Country Westward of the Allegany 
or Apalachian Mountains and Southward of the Ouasioto" was read in Congress Jan. 13. 
It is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 48, f. 281, a copy (without the signatures) at f. 285. The 
copy forwarded by Hardy is on file with his letter in Va. State Lib. and is printed in Cat. 
Va. State Papers, IV. 4, in Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 268, and in Samuel C. Williams. 
Lost State of Franklin, p. 45. The memorial appears to have been forwarded by Col. Arthur 
Campbell with a letter to the President of Congress dated at " Holstein River Novr. 18th. 
1784 " (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 48, f. 277). The letter is mainly a criticism of the action of 
North Carolina, but in the close Campbell says, " I am also advised to forward to your 
Excellency the enclosed Memorial, to explain to Congress our political circumstances and 
the views and interests of the People settled in this part of the Western Country ". It 
further appears from a letter of Samuel Purviance to President Richard Henry Lee, dated 
at Baltimore Dec. 20, 1784, that Campbell had sent his letter and the memorial to Purviance 
with a request that it be forwarded to Congress. Purviance's letter, which states that he 
had just returned from Pittsburgh and found the packet, is endorsed as '* Read 13 
1785" (ibid., f. 273). The editor of the Journals conjectures that Campbell's letter was 
read in Congress on Dec. 10, 1784, "or an approximate date" (see p. 680 n.) ; but 
Purviance's letter shows that it could not have been received until after Dec. 20. See 
Turner, " Western State-Making in the Revolutionary Era ", in Am. Hist. Rev., 1 

7.; G. H. Alden, "The State of Franklin", ibui.. X' III. .71-270. and Samuel C. 
Williams, The Lost State of Franklin, ch. VIII. Governor Henry laid Hardy's letter and 
the memorial before the legislature Oct. 17 (incidentally, the day Hardy died), with 
comment thereon (letter to the speaker of the House of Delegates, in Henry, Patrick 
Henry. III. 325). See further nos. 127 (note 2), 142, 146, post; cf. these Letters, vol. VII, 
nos. 518, 519, 521. 

[ix] l Po. Arch., first ser., XI. 451. 
2 See no. 6, ante. 



J miliary, I/85 9 

12. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen. 1 

N. York 20th Janr. 1785. 
My dear Cousin, 

.... I have not yet got into my House, but I have hired a very 
spacious and elegant one, where I shall be very happy to see you and your 
worthy father. The people here are very hospitable and kind I assure 
you. 2 .... 

13. The President of Congress (Richard Henry Lee) to the 

Several States. 1 

New York Jany. 21st, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to enclose to your Excellency some late communi- 
cations from the Ministers plenipotentiary of these United States at 
Paris, together with an Act of Congress on that Subject. Much incon- 
venience to the American Ministers abroad, being apprehended from 
improper publications of their Letters, hath induced Congress to desire 
that these informations may be kept from the public eye. The precarious 
state of our public credit abroad is so powerfully expressed in these letters 
as to render a comment unnecessary. They prove incontestably the neces- 
sity of immediate, vigorous measures for supplying the Treasury of the 
United States, that justice may be punctually done to those excellent 
friends who Assisted us in the day of our distress. Your enlightened 
Legislature Sir, will see the close connection that subsists between National 
safety and National faith — that the loss of the latter will ever have the 
most malignant effects upon the former. 

The Congress request that your Excellency will lay these communica- 
tions before the General Assembly of your State with the Act of Congress 
respecting them. 2 

[12] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 324. 

2 In his letter to Shippen Jan. 17 (see no. 10, note 2, ante) he remarks that he had 
hired Mrs. Franklin's house : " It is a very elegant House and provided with every 
accommodation." Mrs. Franklin, the widow of Walter Franklin, a merchant, married 
Samuel Osgood in 1786. It was in the same house that Washington first resided as 
President. 

A letter to the President of Congress from James Duane as mayor of the city of New 
York, Jan. 14, transmitted a resolution of the common! council " Offering to the United 
States in Congress assembled, such parts of the city-hall, or other public buildings belong- 
ing to the Corporation, as Congress shall deem necessary, and best suited for their accom- 
modation". The letter was laid before Congress Jan. 15, and the response was adopted 
Jan. 18. Duane's letter is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 67, vol. II., f. 469; a draft is in 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. 261. Cf. no. 2, note 2, ante. 

[ I 3] 1 Copied from the original (to Delaware), then in possession of W. R. Benjamin 
of New York ; Va. State Lib., Executive Papers ; Pierpont Morgan Library, Declaration 
of Independence, II. 242 (to Georgia) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
p. 319 (dated Jan. 24) ; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 325 (to the Governor of Virginia) ; 
Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 271 ; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 429 (dated Jan. 31). 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 19, 20; cf. ibid., Jan. 27 (p. 23 n.), Feb. 7; see also no. 4, 
ante, and no. 23, post. Of the letters under consideration (see the Journals, pp. 11 n., 12 n.) 
those of Adams, Oct. 20 and Nov. 3, 1784, are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-178Q, I. 465, 
467; that of Adams, Franklin, and Jefferson, Nov. 11, is ibid., p. 534; that of Barclay, Nov. 
15, is ibid., p. 355; those of Dumas, Sept. 18 (2), Oct. 8 and 12, are ibid., III. 516-524. 



10 Continental Congress 

14. Rufus King to the President of Congress. 1 

To the president of congress, 

This certifies that the first tuesday of June next by agreement between 
the agents of Massachusetts and New York is the Time fixed for holding 
the federal Court to determine the subsisting controversy between those 
States. 2 

And it was farther agreed by the said agents that if either of the 
commissioners, who were first chosen to constitute the federal Court 
should not within two months next after congress shall have appointed 
a place for holding the said court, declare his acceptance of the said 
Trust he shall be considered as not accepting thereof; 

New York 22d Jany. 1785. 

R K - Tone of the Agents one of the agents 

K King lof Massachusetts of New York 8 



15. The President of Congress to John Rutledge. 1 

New York Jany. _Mth 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose you an Act of Congress for forming a 
foederal Court to determine a controversy, respecting territory, that sub- 
sists between the States of Massachusets and New York. The future 
concord and happiness of the United States depends so eminently upon the 

Adams's letter of Nov. 3 is also in his Works, VIII. 811, and in .V. (.'. State R«*., XVII. 
177. The pertinent extract of the commissioners' letter of Nov. 11 is ibid., p. 179. 
further nos. 29, 37, post. 

[i4] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duane Papers, VII. 99 (endorsed, in the writing of James 
Duane, " Mr. Kings draft of Applic. to Congress to appoint a Time for the hearing between 
New York and the Massachusetts"). 

2 Concerning the controversy between Massachusetts and New York, see the 
Journals, June 3, Dec. 6. 8, 10, 24. 1784; also vol. VII., nos. 398. 400, 412, 559, 616, 618- 
620, 624, 645, 659, 677, 685, 692, 696, 710, 716, 740, 741. James Duane, one of the New 
York agents, wrote to Col. Robert Livingston Jan. 6 (see no. 2, note 2, ante) : " I did 
myself the honor of writing to you by the Sloop when I was preparing to attend Congress 
to assist in appointing a foederal Court for determining our important Controversy with 
the Massachusetts. We set out the 4th and returned the 26th of December. After much 
conversation and delay we agreed on nine Gentlemen to be our Judges any five to form a 
quorum. Mr. Robt. Hanson Harrison Chief Justice of Maryland (formerly Secretary to 
General Washington) was named by both parties. Mr. Tho. Johnson an eminent Lawyer 
lately Governour of Maryland. Mr. George Reade of Delaware, Mr. Isaac Smith one of 
the Judges and Mr. William Patterson late Attorney General both of New Jersey 
nominated by us, and by Massachusetts Mr. John Rutledge late Governour of South 
Carolina, Mr. George Wythe Chancellor of Virginia and Mr. William Grason and Mr. 
James Monroe of the same State. It is allowed to be a very respectable Tribunal and we 
entertain the highest hopes of a fair and candid decision. The first Tuesday in June is 
fixed for opening the Court: the burthen of preparing for this great and important Contest 
is assigned to me. It woud not be so difficult a Task with the knowledge I already po- 
of the merits of the Claims if I was less exposed to Intrusion : you will readily believe that 
for my own Honour and the Interest of the State and of Individuals I will do the best 
in my power to answer the high Trust reposed in me." 

8 The blank left for the signature of "one of the agents of New York" was not 
filled. See nos. is. H> (note 2), post. 

[ 1 5"] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 320; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
II. 326. 



January, 1785 11 

wise and early settlement of such disputes that both Congress and the 
Parties will be well pleased to find this court a full one, by the acceptance 
of all the Judges appointed to form it. 2 

16. Rufus King to John Jay. 1 

Mr. King presents his compliments to the hon'ble Mr. Jay and informs 
him that he has this morning a note from the president of Congress 
requesting the information contained in the Certificate now with Mr. Jay 
which Mr. King signed on Saturday in behalf of the Massachusetts 
Agents. If Mr. Jay signs that certificate or any other to that purpose 
this morning, Mr. President wd. have it in his power to forward the 
Letters of notification to the Commissioners by this day's post. 2 

Monday morning 24th Jany. 1785. 

17. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

New York January 24th 1785. 
Sir, 

We arrived here on the 12th instant, and the next Day Congress entered 
upon Business and have continued their Deliberations as usual. For five 
Days indeed there were only seven States represented, and consequently 
only lesser matters could be taken up, but Additions to the Body have 
been continually making, and there are now nine States represented, and 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 10, 24, 1784; also no. 14, ante, and no. 16, post. For accep- 
tances, declinations, and new appointments see the Journals, Mar. 7 (p. 125 n.), 18 (p. 181, 
181 n.), 21 (pp. 182, 187 n.), 28, 31, Apr. 29, May 13, June 9, July 27, Sept. 14, 28, 1785, 
May 15, Sept. 27, 1786. Harrison, Grayson, and Rutledge declined, and on June 9 Samuel 
Johnston, William Fleming, and John Sitgreaves were named in their places. Subse- 
quently (Journals, Sept. 14, 1785) Thomas Johnson declined, although his declination 
does not appear to have been accepted (ibid., Sept. 27, 1786), and on May 15, 1786, Monroe 
withdrew and William Hooper was chosen in his room (ibid., Sept. 27). See also nos. 31, 
37, 65, 79, 82, post. 

[16]^. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, VII. 100. 

2 See no. 14, ante. Following is Jay's reply (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, VII. 
101) : 

" New York 24 Jan. 1785. 
" Sir, It will be necessary for the New York Agents to have a Meeting before any 
Steps can be taken by either of them respecting the Business mentioned in your Note 
of this Morning. I will immediately after Breakfast call upon Messrs. Duane and Liv- 
ingston, and inform you of the Result without Delay. 

" [Th]e Hon'ble Mr. King [A]t Mrs. Mercers King Street." 

On Jan. 21 Congress had determined upon Williamsburg as the place where the court 
should be holden, but on Jan. 26 (Journals, p. 19 n.) Duane and Walter Livingston pre- 
sented a protest against the selection of Williamsburg, and on Feb. 3 Williamson of 
North Carolina offered a motion, seconded by Read of South Carolina, declaring the act 
of Jan. 21 void on the ground that it had been determined by five states only. The 
motion was contested on a point of order but sustained by the President; the latter's 
decision was then appealed from but sustained by a vote of the house. Cf. nos. 20, 31, 37, 
65, 79, 82, 91, 112, 117, 122, 128, post. See further the Journals, June 9, Aug. 22, Sept. 29, 
30 (p. 795 n.), Oct. 31 (p. 860 n.), Nov. 2, Dec. 2. Concerning the personnel of the court 
see no. 15. ante. 

[17] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Wolcott G. Lane of New York (signed by 
Joseph P. Cooke and William Samuel Johnson) ; a draft, in the writing of William Samuel 
Johnson, is in the Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, Susquehanna Lands, no. 33. 

8 



12 Continental Congress 

one Delegate from three of the other four. Other Gentlemen are daily 
expected, so that there is reason to hope there will very soon be a full 
Congress. The immense Quantity, Variety, and Magnitude of the Busi- 
ness which lies before Congress renders it necessary that as complete a 
Representation as possible should be obtained and continued. Hitherto 
there appear on all sides, and in every Body here, good Dispositions to 
enter into the Consideration and Discussion of public Affairs with Dili- 
gence, Zeal, and Integrity, yet none of the Ardua Regni, such as Revenue, 
Western Territory etc. have hitherto been taken up, not from any direct 
Reluctance in any one to engage in them, but that on account of their 
extreme weight and difficulty, every one seems to hope by longer Reflection 
and Consideration of those very important Subjects to come to the 
discussion and Determination of them with yet greater Strength and 
Furniture of Mind : they will not however, we imagine, be much longer 
postponed — indeed they must not. Upon the former all-important Subject 
your Excellency already has, or very soon will, receive some very striking 
Communications from his Excellency the President, upon which it is 
equally unnecessary and improper for us to make any Remarks. " 

In Consequence of your Excellency's Representations in behalf of the 
Wyoming Sufferers an early day has been assigned to take up that Subject 
in the Committee of the whole House : but no Agent from those People 
having appeared here (though it seems one was prematurely present at 
Trenton) nor any of the Papers arrived, it will be necessary for us, if 
possible, to have it postponed, as it will be impossible for us, unfurnished 
as we are with either evidences, or exhibits, to present it in a proper manner 
to the Committee, or execute, in any effectual manner, the trust reposed 
in us by the Act of Assembly in favour of those People. Pensylvania will, 
we find, contend, and that warmly too, that they have done their Duty, 
and more than their Duty, towards them; and that it is owing to their 
own Negligence, Tergiversation, or Obstinacy, that they have not long 
since had a complete redress of all their Greivances. Indeed that it is 
intirely their own fault that they ever suffered any; but how this Matter 
will appear upon Investigation we know not. 8 .... 



18. Lambert Cadwalader to Benjamin Rush. 1 

Dear Doctor, 

I have had the Pleasure of your Favor of the 16th Inst : r esp ect in g a 
Petition to Congress for the Use of the public Buildings at Carlisle 
the Accomodation of the Masters and Scholars of the College at that 
Place, and in Answer have only to say that the Petition was this Day 
preferr'd to Congress and committed in Order to a Report, wh. I'm in 
Hopes will be favorable from what I could observe of the Temper of 
the House.* 

2 See no. 13, ante. 

3 See nos. 6, 11, ante, 32, 45, post. 

[18] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS.. XII. 108. 
2 See nos. 24, 27, 30, post, and the Journals, Feb. 7. 






January, 1785 13 

Congress have just appointed Mr. Gervais, of S. Carolina Mr. Osgood 
of Massachusetts and Mr. Walter Livingston Commissioners of the 
Treasury. 3 

N. York Jany. 25, 85. 



19. William Samuel Johnson to Jonathan Sturges. 1 

N. York Janry. 26th 1785. 
D'r S'r, 

.... I heartily join with you in yr. Congratulations with our Coun- 
trym'n that our Ship is yet above Water, and very sincerely hope she may 
soon be so Equiped as to meet in tolerable security any future Tempests 
she may have to encounter. 2 Much however it must be confessed is neces- 
sary to be done to accomplish this very desirable purpose. Good disposi- 
tions do not seem to be wanting here but the Embarrass'ts are so many 
and great and the forms of business so slow, that nothing very great is 
yet Effected, much is in Train but how it may terminate no one can fore- 
see. One thing is in Contemp[latio]n 3 here upon which I wish I knew 
the sentiments of you Politicians in Connect't, that is to ask of the States 
to invest Congress with the Power of regulating their Trade as well with 
foreign Nations as with each other.* The first is conciev'd necessary in 
order to carry into effect the Treaties made and to be made with foreign 
Powers, the other to prevent Dissentions between State and State which 
might indanger the Union. The latter might probably overturn the 
System Conn[ecticu]t has adopt'd as relat[iv]e to N Y which it is said 
she will counteract by regulat[ion]s of her Assembly now convening. 
The Idea of many seems to be that the Comm[erc]e between S. and S. 
sho'd be absolutely free. 5 

I heartily thank you for yr. good wishes. Colo. Cook presents his 
Comp'ts to you and I beg you will make mine Accept [abl]e to all the 
Brethren of the Bar Assembled at Fairfield to whom I wish every felicity 
and am with the sincerest Esteem and Friendship 

Yr. most aff'e and obedt. hum'e S't 

3 See vol. VII., nos. 616, 617, 624, 719, 725, 736, 737, 740; and nos. 20, 28, 57, 61. 
66, 68, 101, post. 

[ 1 9] ] Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 90 (draft). 

2 In his letter to Johnson Jan. 21, to which this is a reply, Sturges wrote: "I 
congratulate my Countrymen that the Ship which has rode out a severe Storm is yet 
above Water and so well mann'd, I hope S'r you may have the Satisfaction of being singu- 
larly instrumental in repairing her Breaches so that she may at least make good Weather 
in smooth Water, wish you a very pleasant and agreable Session." Conn. Hist. Soc, 
Johnson Papers, no. 90. 

3 " Contemp'n " is written above "Agitation," which is not however erased. 

4 A committee (Jay, Gerry, Monroe, Spaight, and Houstoun) appears to have been 
appointed Dec. 6, 1784, on motion of Monroe, to bring in a report on the question. On 
Jan. 24 the committee was renewed, William Samuel Johnson being substituted for Jay. 
See nos. 23, 26, 33, 48, 101, 118, 125, 153, post. 

9 " S. and S." doubtless means State and State. Johnson's draft is written on the 
back of Sturges's letter to him and contains, characteristically, numerous abbreviations. To 
avoid ambiguity some of the abbreviations are here expanded. 



14 Continental Congress 

20. Samuel Holten to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(John Hancock). 1 

New York 27th Janu'y, 1785. 
Sir, 

Since I had the honor of addressing your Excellency last, Congress 
have assembled in this City, and ten States being represented, they are 
now much engaged in business, and I can't but hope, we shall get thro' 
with the most important matters, so as to have a recess in the spring, 
notwithstanding, so much time was lost before we made a Congress, and 
in adjourning to this City. 

Two days since Congress made choice of the Hon'ble John Lewis 
Gervais of South Carolina, hon'ble Samuel Osgood of Mass'tts, and the 
hon'ble Walter Livingston of New York, commissioners for the treasury. 

I conclude before this comes to hand, that your Excellency will li 
heard that Congress had determined upon Williamsburgh in Virginia for 
holding the foederal Court for settling the dispute between Mass'tts and 
New York; but yesterday the agents of N. Y. presented a memorial to 
Congress representing that Williamsburgh was not the most proper place 
for the Court to sit, and praying for a reconsideration of the matter, and 
after debate it was agreed that it should lie on the table 'till this day, so 
that what further determination it will produce is uncertain. 2 



21. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (John Dickinson). 1 

New York, Jany. 27, 1785. 
Sir, 

Mr. Henry arrived here last Monday afternoon, and brought witli him 
copies of the proceedings of the Government of Pennsylvania, relating 
to the Wyoming dispute since the decree at Trenton and also Your Excel- 
lency's letter. 

His arrival was very seasonable. The next day having been appointed 
for debating it in Committee of the whole House. But as neither of ill 
could possibly in so short a time be fully possessed of the history of the 
facts we got it postponed and hope that it will not be revived at an early 
day. 2 

[20] * Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 264 (endorsed: "In Senate Feby. 8th, 1784 Read 
and sent down. S Adams Presidt. In the House of Representatives Febry. 9th. 
Read and sent up Sam A Otis Spkr"). 

2 See nos. 14-16, ante, 31, 37, 65, 79, 82, post. 
[ai] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 453 (signed by William Henry and Joseph Gardner). 
2 See nos. 6, n, 17, ante, 32, 45, 50, post. 



January, 1785 15 

22. William Ellery to Christopher Ellery. 1 

Trenton [January 28 (?) 1785]. 2 
Dear Brother, 

.... The gentlemen of this city take great notice of members of 
Congress. Their cards are as frequent as leaves, and their tables are 
sumptuous 

We have ten States on the floor, and have a prospect of twelve pretty 
soon, when business may proceed with some degree of celerity. Most of 
the business of Congress requires nine States, and an agreement of nine 
in ten is not much to be expected. We have lately received letters from 
our commissioners. They have announced their authority to negotiate 
commercial treaties to the ministers of most of the powers, and received 
favorable and polite answers, but nothing effectual had been done when 
their joint letter of the nth November was dated. 3 .... 

23. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

New York, Jany. 28th, 1785. 
.... Since the arrival of Congress at this city we have attempted 
much business but only a little has been completed. The most important 
affairs are in the hands of a Grand Comm'ee — such as a proposal to 
empower Congress to regulate the trade of the United States, to form a 
requisition for the present year, to frame an establishment for a mint, an 
application to Congress from the State of Massachusetts for an explana- 
tion of that article of the treaty of Peace which respects bona fide debts 
etc. 2 After repeated efforts to chuse Comm'rs for the Treasury, Messrs. 

[22] 1 Hist. Magazine, III. 2X1. 

2 While this letter has " Trenton " in the date-line (but without date) and may have 
been begun there, it was certainly completed in New York. Its approximate date is 
determined by sundry internal evidences, namely : Ellery speaks of letters " lately received " 
from the commissioners in Europe and mentions the joint letter of Nov. XI. That letter 
was read in Congress Jan. 17, and Ellery was evidently writing some days later. In an 
omitted passage he says, " I dined yesterday with the Marine Society ... In the evening 
I went to Monsieur Quesnay's Concert." The file of New York newspapers for this 
period in the Library of Congress is defective, but Mr. Clarence S. Brigham of the 
American Antiquarian Society kindly searched the issues of the New York Independent 
Journal, of which that society possesses a complete file, and he reports that in the issue of 
Jan. 15 the Marine Society advertised that it would hold a '' social dinner " on Jan. 19. As 
to Quesnay's concerts, Mr. Brigham finds that there were probably frequent performances, 
but the only one approximating the time of this letter appears to have been given on Jan. 14. 
It was first advertised (issue of Jan. 8) to be given on the 12th, then postponed (issue of 
the 12th) to Jan. 14. But he has found no account of a concert on Jan. 19. Finally, Ellery 
states that there were " ten States on the floor ", and this did not take place until Jan. 25. 
The conclusion therefore is that the letter was written at different dates and not com- 
pleted until after Jan. 25. It is placed here at Jan. 28 on the assumption that the letter 
must have been despatched at the same time as the letter to the governor, no. 23, post. 

8 Cf. no. 13, ante, and nos. 23, 25, 29, post. In a concluding paragraph Ellery re- 
quests his brother to " procure of Mr. Peabody two handsome walnut canes .... I mean 
to make a present of one of them to the President of Congress ". He closes by giving his 
New York address. 

[23PR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 51; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 521. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 17-20, 24, 26. The question of empowering Congress to 
regulate trade was however assigned to a special committee. See no. 19, note 4, ante. 



16 Continental Congress 

Osgood of Massachusetts, Walter Livingston of this State and Jervais 
of Charleston So. Carolina, are at last elected. 

Before this letter reaches you, you will have heard and seen the reso- 
lution of Congress relative to a federal town. Nothing but the loss of 
time attending the vibrations of Congress, the retardment of public 
business, and many other pernicious consequences resulting from the un- 
settled state of Congress would have induced me to come into that measure, 
at a time when the great demands against the public are unsatisfied. We 
have not been able as yet to appoint commissioners to carry that reso- 
lution into execution, and I cannot conjecture when it will be done, for 
some members arc opposed to the measure, and will throw every obstruc- 
tion in the way, in their power, in order to defeat it; so that the federal 
town may be yet considered as in the air. If one should be erected I 
should suppose that the banks of the Delaware would be preferred by 
our State to those of the Potowmack, and I trust that the adjournment 
to this city, as it has brought my colleague and me nearer to our con- 
stituents, and, by increasing the business of our Packet-boats, will throw 
some money into the State, will not be disagreeable. 8 

We have received letters from our ministers abroad, which 1 dare 
not remark upon ; because, with regard to them we are under an injunc- 
tion of secrecy. Paragraphs taken from those letters are transmitted to 
the Executives of each State to be laid before the respective legislatures, 
under an injunction of secrecy. I opposed their being thus transmitted, 
and after the vote had passed desired that the house would declare their 
sense, whether anything more was meant than to prevent copies thereof 
being taken and published. The house did not do it ; but several member- 
said that that was their intention. I think, in a time of peace, nothing 
should be kept secret in which the people at large are interested; and in 
Republics especially, secrecy is very apt to begel suspicion. 4 

Your Excellency knows my opinion with regard to the Impost. 1 
trust that nothing but the last necessity will induce our State to embrace 
it in its present form, if at all. It is probable that this State will not 
come into it, and it it should not I think we ought not to be scared into 
it, by the inefficacious acts of Connecticut. If the report of the comm'ee 
on the motion for empowering Congress to regulate trade by laying 
duties thereon, to be collected by the States and applied to their own use, 
should substantially correspond with the motion we shall agree to it: 
because a uniformity of duties will prevent a variety of interests; and 
because I expect a handsome sum may be collected from such of the mari- 
time powers as have disclosed very illiberal commercial Principles 

8 See no. 2, note 2, ante. 

* See nos. 4, 13, 22, ante, 25, 29, post. 



January, 1785 17 

24. David Howell to Benjamin Rush. 1 

New York January 28, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of 16th Instant is before me. It always gives me pleasure 
to be charged with business where the interests of Literature are con- 
cerned — And in the Application of Dickinson College for the use of the 
public buildings at Carlisle I have the additional pleasure of obliging a 
particular friend and gratifying many respectable citizens of Pennsyl- 
vania 

Your memorial in behalf of the Trustees has been laid before Congress 
and referred to a Committee of which I have the honor to be Chairman. 
In consequence of instruction from the Committee I have written to Mr. 
Hodgson our Commissary of Military Stores, for information touching 
the buildings at Carlisle, and our report is suspended. The following 
form of a report has been agreed to in Committee. — That [blank'] be and 
he is hereby authorised and directed to let by lease, on reasonable rents 
to the Trustees of Dickinson College in the State of Pennsylvania, for a 
term not exceeding ten years the public buildings erected at the expence 
of the U. States at Carlisle in sd. State during the late War, or such parts 
thereof as are not wanted for the public Stores, And that Securities for 
liquidated debts due from the U. States be made receivable in payment 
of sd. rents. 2 

I send this for your private information only, and for your remarks. 
I cannot say what Congress may be disposed to do, but pray you to be 
assured of my support, and of the esteem, with which I have the honor 
to be D'r Sir, your very h'ble Servt. 

D. Howell. 

25. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare). 1 

New York Jany. 31st, 1785. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have received some important advices from their 
Minis'rs at foreign Courts, which are preparing to be sent to the different 
states but at this time I am not at liberty to communicate. 2 You have no 
doubt seen the resolves of Congress to build a federal Town near the falls 
of Trenton. 3 As our finances at present are not in a condition to enable 
us to carry them into execution, I trust they will remain on paper only, till 
we are better able, we are now but Just emerg'd from a long and expensive 

[24] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., XLI. no. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 7 ; also no. 18, ante, and nos. 27, 30, post. In the Journals 
" Mr. [John] Henry " is named as a member of the committee. It was evidently William 
Henry of Pennsylvania; John Henry of Maryland did not attend until Mar. n. Accord- 
ingly in some other instances also " Mr. Henry " should be interpreted as William, 
not John. 

[25pMass. Hist. Soc, C 81 B 162. 

2 Cf. nos. 13, 22, 23, ante, and no. 29, post. 

3 The ordinance of Dec. 23, 1784. See also the Journals, Feb. 8-1 1, Mar. 16; cf. 
no. 2, note 2, ante. 



18 Continental Congress 

war, many debts contracted in the course thereof, and at present unpaid, 
and till we can see our way clear for the payment thereof I think Congress 
may be content with such accommidations as we now have, and with a 
people who seem disposed to shew us every civility. Mr. Foster and my- 
self and some other members of Congress are at present averse to the 
measure, and unless we are instructed to the contrary, shall oppose the 
motion every time its called up. Could a plan be set on foot to buy a tract 
of land that's every way suitable for the purpose, and such a part thereof 
be sold as would be sufficient to defray the expence of erecting the build- 
ings then we could have no objections to the same, and I have no doubt 
in my mind, but in a little time it may be done, for wherever a federal 
town is built, land will consequently rise in value, as many people will 
wish to settle where Congress has a permanent residence. I hope that 
happy time will come, as in my opinion it will cement the union, more and 
more, and keep it pure to generations yet unborn. Nothing but our poverty 
makes us averse to the present mode. 

26. Pierse Long to John Langdon. 1 

New York Jany. 31st, 1 785. 
Sir, 

Since my last I have nothing to communicate thats come to a determi- 
nation. Whats now before Congress is chiefly old matters which were 
left by them undecided upon and are now taken up — Except a motion on 
which we have a committee who I expect will soon report upon the 
expediency of the several states empowering Congress to regulate the 
trade of the Continent. 2 And when it is done I hope it will effectually 
put a stop to so daring a Conduct as Great Britain is pursuing. It is 
amazing to see the quantity of Vessels in this City from all parts of 
England now in this Harbour carrying our goods to market, and a delay 
has so long been made to draw an equitable line of proceeding. I hope 
very soon there will be an end put to so diabolical a trade. Please to 
accept of the enclosed which is all at present from Sir 

Your most Obt. Sent. 

Pierse Long 

27. James McHenry to Benjamin Rush. 1 

New York 31 Jany. 1; 
D'r Sir, 

Mr. Howel, Mr. Henry and myself are the committee to report on 
your application. We have agreed to report that the buildings at Carlilc 
be let to the trustees of Dickeson college at a reasonable rent in Con- 
tinental liquidated certificates; but previous to giving in the report to 
Congress we thought it necessary to enquire of Mr. Hodgson Com- 
missary of military stores whether the buildings could be spared. His 

[a6] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C 

8 Sec no. 19, note 4, ante, and nos. 33, 48, 101, 194, post. 
[37]* Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., XLI. in. 



February, 1785 19 

answer of course may influence the report. I need not add that I shall 
always feel myself happy to promote the interests of learning or oblige 
you. 2 

28. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

N. York, Feby. 1, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... My letters to Mr. Jones have advis'd you of the principles 
upon wh. our delegation act'd in the questions respecting the places of 
temporary and permanent residence for Congress; more explicitly per- 
haps than our communications to the Executive have done, altho' in- 
deed we have been sufficiently explicit to the Executive, the com'rs for 
the federal town are not yet elected, arising from the urgency of more 
important business. 2 I am sorry I have it not in my power to inform 
you we had already taken measures with the [Courts of Spain] 3 and 
[Great Britain] upon the subjects wh. have arose between us. the reports 
respecting each, have been frequently acted on, without making any de- 
cisive arrangment. 4 That upon a letter of [Mr. Laurens] desiring per- 
mission for [Dr. Franklin] to retire hath also been before us. it contain'd 
a provision that a successor be appointed in his room, a division was 
call'd for, upon wh. an amendment to the same effect was mov'd and six 
States ag'nst three were for it. 8 thus it is upon all questions of a similar 
nature, some gentn. wish to commit all our aff'rs to be transacted at 
these several [courts] to the two gentn. now in office, while we hold that 
at each [court] a [minister] is necessary, that at the [court] of [France] 
we sho'd always be represented, and at that of [the U. Netherlands] untill 
we had pd. the publick debt or establish'd funds for it. that the nature 
of the business and the manner in wh. it sho'd be conducted considering 
our situation, requires a particular [minister] at the [courts] of [Great 
Britain] and [Spain] at their leasure and who might assume a tone 
suited to circumstances. That two [ministers] are incompetent to this 
business if they are to do it, at the respective [courts] and that to attempt 

2 See nos. 18, 24, ante, and no. 30, post. 
[28] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 60. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 8-11, Mar. 16; cf. nos. 2, 5, 23, 25, ante, 33-38, 51-53, 
95, 101, post. 

8 Bracketed words are written in cipher. The cipher here used was one of 99 
words, transmitted to Madison Nov. 7, 1783. 

4 On the question of the western posts Monroe had made a motion Dec. 2, and a 
committee had brought in a report Dec. 3. Monroe offered another motion Feb. u, 
chiefly respecting commerce with Canada, and a committee reported upon the two motions 
Feb. 21. Meanwhile, on Feb. 7, the secretary for foreign affairs reported instructions for 
the ministers respecting posts, trade, slaves, and debts. The instructions were adopted 
Mar. 7. The appointment of a minister to Great Britain had been proposed Dec. 9, resolved 
upon Jan. 31, and the election set for Feb. 7. On Feb. 24 John Adams was chosen. Re- 
specting questions with Spain see the letters of Rendon and Galvez in the Journals, Dec. 15. 
On Dec. 17 it was resolved to appoint a minister to the court of Madrid, on Dec. 23 in- 
structions to the minister, drawn by Monroe, were reported (chiefly pertaining to boun- 
daries and the navigation of the Mississippi), and on Jan. 31 and Feb. 2 nominations were 
offered ; but no appointment took place at this time. Cf. nos. 39, 41, 44, post. 

5 See vol. VII., nos. 731, 732, 736, and the Journals, Jan. 21 ; cf. ibid., Jan. 31, Feb. 17, 
18, 24, Mar. 1, 7, 10; also nos. 40, 65, 70, post. 



20 Continental Congress 

it elsewhere will certainly fail of success, since we have information to 
be depended on that the [courts] of [Great Britain] and [Spain] dislike 
to treat with us elsewhere, upon all these points we have six States and 
hope upon the arrival of Maryl'd or Delaware, both of wh. are expected 
daily, to have the 7th. The com'rs of the treasury are elected, Gervais. 
Osgood and Walter Livingston are the men. Some import't communi- 
cations being reed, lately from our Ministers abroad, it was mov'd that 
they be referr'd to a committee to determine what part sho'd be com- 
municated to the States. a committee was appointed and a report made. 
a few days afterwards we reed, a letter from Mr. Jay containing the 
following paragraph " I have some reason to apprehend that I have 
come into the office of foreign aff'rs, with ideas of its duties and rights 
somewhat differ't from those wh. seem to be entertain'd by Congress; 
if that sho'd prove to be the case I shall certainly think it my duty. 
either to execute it on the plan most agreeable to them or retire from 
it with as much acquiescence and respect as I accepted it with confidence 
in their delicacy and gratitude for the honor they did me." This was 
also referr'd to a committee to whom Mr. Jay gave (to be ingrafted 
in the report) in writing the following proposition, " and that all foreign 
letters and papers wh. may be laid before Congress sho'd in the first in- 
stance be referr'd to him." whether it will be the sense of the committee 
to make it a matter of right in the minister of foreign aff'rs to advise 
Congress in the first instance upon the various subjects of his department 
and preclude themselves from a previous consideration, or will consider 
the office in a different point of view, consulting him when necessary and 
refering or declining to refer to him. at pleasure, any of the subjects 
before them, is yet to be determin'd. 7 

P. S. Mr. Mercer was in the nomination tor the treasury but we with- 
drew him. 

•See no. 13, ante, and the Journals, Feb. II. 

7 Jav's letter, Jan. 23 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 80, vol. I., f. 1), was laid before 
Congress Jan. 24 and referred to a committee, who reported Feb. 2. The essential part 
of the report, which was in accordance with Jay's suggestions, was adopted Feb. II. 
See S. F. Bemis, American Secretaries of State and their Diplomacy, I. 200-203; see 
also Madison's reply to Monroe Mar. 21 {Writings, II. 127). 

Concerning Jay's appointment to the office of secretary for foreign affairs and his 
acceptance see vol. VII., nos. 588, 593, 598, 629, 722, 738, 744. He wrote to Thomson 
from New York Oct. 24, 1784: "The Time for the Meeting of Congress being near, I 
shall postpone visiting Philada. 'till then. I must decline accepting the Place offered me, 
at least until the Sense of Congress can be known on two or three points. We will talk 
them over at large when we meet. I will just hint them at present — as I have a family 
it is necessary in my opinion that my residence should be stationary — and I think it both 
reasonable and important that the persons to serve under me in the office, should be of 

my appointment I am influenced, not by particular Views, but by general Prin- 

cinli's of Prudence, which (entre nous) have been much confirmed by Experience" 
(Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II.). See the Journals, Dei 
1784. 

Jay opened his office in New York <»n the 28th of January, 1785, and <>n the aotfa ad- 
dressed a circular letter to the several states explaining briefly the functions of his < 
the delay in inaugurating the business, requesting copies of the state laws, etc. (Md. 
ifist. Sec, Red Book, IX. rr: Hi* I'.i .. Gran Coll.. Chid Government Ofl 

of the Revolution, I. 22; Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 271; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 



February, 1785 21 

29. Jacob Read to Robert Morris. 1 

New York 1st Feby., 1785. 2 
Sir, 

The Grand Committee of Congress of which I have the honour to be 
Chairman hav'g receivd an order to report a requisition on the States for 
the Current expenses of the Year, I Inclose you this resolve pointing out 
what Information they want from your late department to enable them 
to pursue this work. Among a variety of other subjects with which the 
Committee are charged are the Letters from the Ministers of the U S 
at foreign Courts, some extracts of which and also Copies of Two Letters 
one from the Comte de Vergennes, and the other from Mr. Grand the 
banker at Paris are also inclosed. I beg leave to observe that the very 
different Idea entertained by Myself and other Members of Congress of 
the State of our Money Matters in Europe (and which we imbibed from 
Conversations with Yourself) seems to render a pritty general reference 
on these Matters to you necessary, in order that Congress or the Com- 
mittee may from you have a Clear and full Statement of the real Situation 
of our Money concerns on the other side the Atlantic I thought myself 
Authorized from your Information to say that a pritty considerable sum 
of money was actually in Holland at the Disposal of the U. S. and yet 
Mr. Adams says your Rites will be protected if you shall have drawn on 
our Bankers there. Mr. Grands Letter says he can pay no more and that 
he is greatly in advance and the joint Letters of the Ministers shews their 
situation to be truly distressing. I will further just remark that your 
Letter of 17th, August last inclosing one from Mr. Marbois of the 15th, 
and your Answer of the 17th of same Month are also among the papers 
now before the Committee and seem to Authorize the Idea we entertained 
of provision having been made for pay't of the Interest due in Novr. last 
on the Dutch loan guaranteed by his most Christ'n Majesty, on this 
Matter the Committee wish the fullest information, their resolve is full 
to this point. 

In consequence of a former Reference to the Comptrolers office I re- 
ceived from him, the follow'g Accounts which will render any containing 
the same information unnecessary vizt. Estimate of the " arrearages to 
31st Deer. 1784 and of one Years Int. arising on the Foreign and Domestic 

401; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 597). A certificate by Secretary Thomson that Jay took 
the oath of office on Dec. 21, 1784, before Isaac Smith, one of the justices of the supreme 
court of New Jersey, is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 86, and in Hist. Soc. of Pa., 
Gratz Coll., Chief Government Officials, I. 86. Previously, on Jan. 14, Jay had written 
to the commissioners in Europe notifying them of his acceptance of the office on Dec. 21 
and had remarked : "All the foreign letters which had been received during the recess 
of Congress were then, and are still, in the hands of a committee to whom they had been 
referred. None have since arrived." Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 562. 

[29] * Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. (signed by Read as "Chairman of the 
Grand Comm'ee of Congress"). 

2 This letter, which is found in a fascicle of manuscripts labeled, " 1784-1785 
Proceedings of the Continental Congress Grand Committee ", has the date " 14th Feby." 
erased and " 1st Feby." substituted. Some facts suggest that the erased date may be the 
proper one. See note 3, below. The " proceedings " of the grand committee are chiefly 
materials entering into the committee's reports on the requisition for 1785. See, for in- 
stance, the Journals, Mar. 31, Apr. 14, July 18, Sept. 24. 



22 Continental Congress 

Debt["]. In which he has not Charged the Int. of the Ten Millions 
guaranteed by France, supposing it paid, " Estimate of the Foreign and 
Domestic debt " and " Statement of the Times of payment of the Prin- 
cipal and Interest of the Loans in France ". The Committee will also be 
obliged for an accurate return of the present Civil list of Congress and the 
actual Sallaries under which they Act from the proper office. 

I have been very full on the points of the business with which I am 
charged by the Committee and request you will do me the favour to refer 
to the proper officer any Matters on which I may have improperly called 
upon you for information and further to furnish answers as speedily as 
possible. 8 

30. Richard Henry Lee to Benjamin Rush. 1 

New York Feby. 6, 1785. 

Sir, 

I have received the letter that you did me the honor to write to me on 
the 1 6th of last month, and I lost no time in presenting to Congress the 
petition of the Trustees of Dickinson College. The petition was re- 
ferred to the consideration of a Committee, but as yet no report has 
been made upon it. 2 

8 A grand committee on some phases of the subject was appointed Jan. 17, but 
the committee recorded as reporting Feb. 1 shows some changes of personnel. The 
order to the grand committee to report a requisition on the states " for the supplies of the 
present year" was on Jan. 24, the immediate object being, as Read's letter indi 
a provision for the obligations in Holland. Letters from Adams (Nov. 3) and the joint 
commissioners (Nov. 11) on the subject, together with sundry other letters, had been 
referred Jan. 19 to a committee who had made a report on one phase of the matter 
Jan. 20 (see no. 13, ante). That committee was now discharged (Jan. 24) and the letters 
of the ministers referred to the grand committee " now existing ". The committee brought 
in a report Feb. 1, the same day on which this letter appears to have been written, yet a 
motion by Read, asking that the injunction of secrecy be taken off the letters of the ministers 
in so far as to permit the committee to communicate to the late superintendent of finance 
those parts of the letters that related to the interest on the Dutch loan, is recorded in the 
Journals under Feb. 7. The fact that the date-line of Read's letter has " 14th Feby." cm 
may have a bearing on the question of sequence. The committee's report on the requisition 
first appears in the Journals Mar. xi. Meanwhile the committee had undergone some 
further changes in personnel, Howell having taken the place of Read as chairman. See nos. 
33. 53. 75. 87, 109, 113, post. 

The letters alluded to by Read, other than those mentioned under no. 13, note 2, ante, 
may be found as follows: Adams to the President of Congress Mar. 9, 1784, in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., VI. 784 (cf. his letter of Mar. 2, ibid., p. 782) ; Morris t. 
Aug. 17. ibid., p. 818; Morris to the President Sept. 30 (read in Congress Nov. 30), ibid., 
p. 821 (cf. his letter to Franklin, ibid., p. 822) ; Vergennes to Franklin Oct. 30, ibid., 
p. 827. The letter of Grand to Franklin, Aug. 28, is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
I. 386 ; Vergennes' letter of Oct. 30 is ibid., p. 388. 

[30] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., XLI. 112; 
Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 328. 

2 See nos. 18, 24, 27, ante. The report was brought in the next day. John Jay 
wrote to Dr. Rush Mar. 24 : " Permit me to congratulate you on the success of the 
application to Congress on Behalf of Dickinson College, which you appear zealously to 
patronize." Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS.. XLI. 117; 
Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay (cd. Johnston), III. 139. 



February, 1785 23 

Informing the minds of youth, is an object of such essential con- 
sequence to the well being of society, that I hope this proposition will 
meet with no difficulty; and it is a purpose so benevolent as well to 
deserve your fostering care and attention. I am particularly obliged to 
you Sir for your polite and friendly congratulation on my appointment 
to the Chair of Congress. 



31. The Massachusetts Delegates to the 
Massachusetts Assembly. 1 

New York 7th Feby. 1785. 
Gentlemen, 

We have this day drawn a Bill of exchange on the treasurer of the 
commonwealth of Massachusetts for two hundred and sixty mexican 
dollars to enable us to send an express to the commissioners of our appoint- 
ment for constituting in part a federal court for determining the dispute 
between Massachusetts and New York, the necessity of this measure 
arises from a detention of official information on the Subject, in conse- 
quence of a memorial from the agents of New York to annul the deter- 
mination of the place for holding the federal court, made in pursuance of 
an agreement of the agents of both states. We have opposed a commit- 
ment of the memorial, upon the ground that congress have no authority 
to alter the plan thus fixed by agreement, and to secure the commissioners 
acceptance of our nomination, we shall be under the necessity of con- 
tinuing our opposition, unless we are assured that an alteration of the 
place will have no effect in preventing that acceptance, this may take up 
much time in congress, and as the appointments are by a second agreement 
of the agents null and void, unless as respects those who may accept within 
two months after the determination of the place for holding the Court, 
and considering likewise that seventeen days have already elapsed of the 
time mentioned, we think it is indispensably necessary to transmit to the 
commissioners attested copies of the agreement and determination referred 
to and to obtain their answers before the expiration of the two months. 2 

Writing to Dr. William Shippen Feb. 7 Lee remarked : " I am very happy to inform 
you that your friend Dr. Arthur Lee settled his affair with Congress to his entire satisfac- 
tion" {Letters, II. 328). Arthur Lee's principal accounts as minister had been adjusted in 
1781 and 1782 (see vol. VI., pp. 177, 393). On Mar. 10, 1784, he had however preferred a 
request for compensation for his services and expenses as agent in London prior to his 
appointment as one of the ministers to France. A committee made a favorable report 
Mar. 25, but Congress does not appear to have acted upon the report at that time. On 
Feb. 25. 1785, the matter was referred to a new committee. This committee made its report 
Mar. 1, and Congress granted payment Mar. 4. 

[31] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (in the writing of King and signed by 
Gerry, Hoi ten, Partridge, and King). 

2 See nos. 14-16, 20, ante, and no. 37, post. 



24 Continental Congress 

2,2. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (John Dickinson). 1 

New York Febry. 7th, 1785. 
Sir, 

The Wioming dispute rests at present and we hope will do so for some 
time, we have seen Mr. Wilson and reed, by him some additional papers 
to those brought on by Mr. Henry relating to that unhappy dispute. 2 

The Report of a Committee upon your Exc'ys letter with the inclosures 
relative to the appointment of additional Comm'rs for setling and adjust- 
ing the accts. of the Citizens of Penna. against the United States remains 
undetermined until a report is brought in to prevent frauds supposed to 
be practised by some persons having unsettled accts. and stated to Con- 
gress by Mr. Denning Comm'r in this State which we hope will be made 
tomorrow. 

The first report as brought in and which we have reason to believe will 
pass comes up fully to the Idea of the Legislature as expressed in the 
act. 8 .... 

33. David Howell to William Greene. 1 

New York, February 9, 1785. 
Sir, 

In pursuance of the Instructions of the Hon'e the General Assembly, 
their delegates have moved in Congress that the Contractors for Oxteams 
in 1781, should be paid their ballances out of the last requisition. This 
motion is yet in the hands of a Committee. It is our Expectation to 
obtain a resolution authorizing the State to pay these balances out of the 
requisition for the current year, the last requisition having been otherwise 
appropriated. And, indeed, this is all that Massachusetts could obtain for 
their Contractors. 2 

A great deal of business lies before Congress in the hands of Com- 
mittees and in reports. It is easy to perceive that the tardiness of the 
delegates in assembling at Trenton, together with the adjournment t<> 
this City must have prevented us from the expected dispatch of public 
business. I have the pleasure, however, to observe that eleven States are 
now on the floor, and that a good degree of harmony prevails. 

[3a] 1 Collection of the late D. McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. (signed by Henry 
and Gardner ) ; I'd. Arch., first ser., X. 405. 

2 See nos. 6, 11, 17, 21, ante, 45, 50, post. 

8 Dickinson's letters to the delegates and to Congress relative to the settlement 
of accounts are in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 397-398. The latter was laid before Com 
Jan. 25. See further the Journals, Jan. 26, 28 (p. 24 n.), Feb. 11 (p. 61 n.), 16 (p. 73), 
23 (resolves), and no. 35, post. A broadside of the report of Feb. 11 is in Hist. Soc. of 
Pa., William Henry Papers, f. 245. The report of Feb. 11 refers specifically to the 
frauds practised in the matter of certificates. A related problem, the counterfeiting of 
certificates issued by John Pierce, commissioner for adjusting the claims of the army, 
had come before Congress Feb. 2, in consequence of which Congress ordered a proclama- 
tion by the President, the text of which is in the Journals, Feb. 2 (found also in N. C. 
State Recs., XVII. 599, and in New Jersey Gazette, Feb. 14). See nos. 49, 57, post. 

[33] * R- 1- Arch.. Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 53 ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 522. 

2 Howell's motion is in the Journals, Jan 24. A report was made Feb. 1 1 and 
adopted Feb. 16. See no. 66, post. 



February, 1785 25 

A Grand-Committee has been appointed and instructed to report a requi- 
sition on the States for the supplies of the current year. 3 .... 

Congress have ordered all their public offices to be removed from Phila- 
delphia to this City. The Portraits of the King and Queen of France are 
also to be brought here. 4 The City Hall has been given up to the use of 
Congress and their offices by the Corporation of the city, excepting the 
room in which the Mayor's Court is holden 5 — and I presume it is unneces- 
sary to mention that the members can be accommodated in the best 
manner, but that the expenses of living here are greater than at any other 
place where I have attended in Congress. 

We wait with impatience the result of the negotiations opened with 
the Indians — as the Western lands are in great demand, and frequent 
applications are made for grants. It is expected that Congress, before 
they rise, will be enabled to open their Land-office, and to establish some 
government in the Western wilderness. 6 .... 

In consequence of a motion made in Congress by an advocate for a 
revenue in the hands of Congress, a Committee has been appointed to 
report the measures necessary to be taken on the Subject of the recom- 
mendations of April 18, 1783, for the Impost, etc. As Congress have 
been pleased to appoint me Chairman of the committee and to join with 
me two members who are not friendly to the revenue System, it would 
seem that a change of the financeering System may not be far off : But as 
this Subject has not been drawn into discussion in the present Congress 
I have no authority to announce the probability of such an event. 7 .... 

Congress have resolved to send Ministers plenipotentiary to represent 
the U. States at the Courts of Madrid and London ; and their Election is 
made the order of the day. In consequence of the earnest request of Dr. 
Franklin it is in contemplation to permit him to return to this his native 
country, where he wishes to lay his bones. The return of this venerable 
patriot under these circumstances must give pleasure to all his friends, or 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 24 ; also no. 29, note 3, ante. In a paragraph here omitted 
Howell mentions the retirement of Morris as superintendent of finance, and states that the 
chairman of the grand committee had written him for information as to what arrangements 
he had taken for paying the interest due in Europe. 

* Concerning the removal of the offices see the Journals, Jan. 13, 15 (p. 4 n.), 27, 
Feb. 2 (p. 35 n.), 7, 17; concerning the portraits see ibid., Jan. 15 (p. 4 n.), Feb. 1 
(p. 30 n.), 11; cf. ibid., May 13 (p. 359). The question of the removal of the portraits 
was initiated by the letter of Marbois Dee. 24 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 105.), 
read in Congress Jan. 15 and referred to a committee. Jay's reply, Dec. 28, is ibid., p. 106. 
In accordance with the instructions of Feb. 11 Secretary Jay asked Robert Morris to 
take the preliminary measures for the removal. The resultant correspondence (Mar. 31- 
Apr. 22) is ibid., pp. 133-140. Concerning the disappearance of the portraits see these 
Letters, vol. VII., pp. 498, 638. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 18, and no. 12, note 2, ante. 

6 "An Ordinance for Ascertaining the Mode of Locating and Disposing of Lands 
in the Western Territory " had failed of passage May 28, 1784. See vol. VII., nos. 537, 
572, 576, 579. 584, 586, 638. Such an ordinance is recorded as " read a first time " Mar. 4. 
See nos.- 48, 63, 72, 95, 101 (note 11), post. 

7 The committee appears to have been first appointed Dec. 17, 1784, with Howell 
as the third member. It was renewed Jan. 17, 1785, with Howell as chairman. Two mem- 
bers, William Samuel Johnson and John Beatty, were added Feb. 14, and on Mar. 14 
the committee made a report, which is found in the Journals, Mar. 15. According to the 
endorsement there recorded the report was recommitted Jan. 27, 1786. Cf. nos. 45, 82. 
84, 89, 1 10, post. 



26 Continental Congress 

let me say to all the friends of this Country and of freedom. Governor 
Jefferson, who is peculiarly acceptable to the Court of Versailles, will 
probably be appointed his successor at the Court. 8 

I observed in my last, that the resolution of Congress, putting all the 
Letters from our foreign ministers under an injunction of Secrecy, was 
my apology for not making more ample communications on the Subject 
of our Foreign affairs. 9 

It is in contemplation, at least with some gentlemen, to recommend to 
the States an Alteration of the Confederation on the subject of commerce. 
The motion under commitment aims to vest Congress with power to regu- 
late both foreign and coast wise trade and to ascertain and regulate the 
duties to be paid in the importation of foreign merchandise. 

provided that the assent of at least nine States in Congress shall be 
necessary to all their ordinances on these subjects. And, 

provided also, that all such Ordinances shall receive the approbation 
of the Legislatures of nine states before they shall take effect. 

provided also, that such ordinances shall continue in force only 

years. 

provided moreover that the Legislatures of the particular States shall 
relinquish all power to lay imposts against their neighboring States — 
And lastly, 

provided, that all such imposts shall be collected under the Authority, 
and accrue to the use and benefit of the particular State where they shall 
be paid. 10 .... 

The proceedings of the Committee of the States at Annapolis last 
Summer are printed and to be sent forward to the several States. 

Since the assembling of Congress in this City some of the Southern 
States have discovered great uneasiness under the Ordinances passed at 
Trenton respecting the residence of Congress and it yet remains very 
uncertain whether Federal buildings will be erected any where soon. On 
this subject, however, it is considered that the eastern States have pos- 
sessed themselves of the advantage ground. 11 

The question of the Independence of Vermont has not yet been re- 
sumed, nor have their delegates made their appearance as yet. 

The delegates would be happy to receive particular and pointed in- 
structions on the subject of commerce. How far will the State consent to 
part with its power to regulate commerce? How far will it be safe to 
vest Congress with power relative to ascertaining and regulating duties, 
etc.? As it is our earnest wish (for I believe I may also speak for my 
colleague in this matter) to conform our conduct to the views of the 
Honorable the General Assembly, it will at all times be very agreeable to 
receive instructions on any subject of importance 

P. S. — I must request that no copies of my Letters be suffered to be 
taken for certain reasons. 

• Cf. no. 28, ante, and nos. 41, 65, 66, 70, post. 
9 See nos. 4, 13, 23, ante. 

10 See no. 19, note 4, ante, and nos. 48, 101, post. 

11 See nos. 2 (note 2), 28 (note 2), ante. 



February, 1785 27 

34. The Maryland Delegates, Motion. 1 

[February 10, 1785.] 

A Motion of the Delegates of the State of Maryland — 

It is with sincere Concern that the Delegates of the State of Maryland, 
perceive a settled Determination in Congress, to appoint Commissioners 
to carry into Effect, their Ordinance of [blank] 2 while at the same Time 
they regret that Necessity, which obliges them to fix their Opposition to 
the Measure, on the Journals of Congress. 

The Objects of the Ordinance being two; First to found a foederal 
Town, And Secondly to erect [blank] 5 

They had flattered themselves, they speak it with profound Respect to 
Congress, that the Circumstances of the United States, would alone 
have justified Congress, in procrastinating the Execution of so expensive 
and seemingly unnecessary an Undertaking. 

They have sedulously but unsuccessfully attempted, to reconcile it's 
immediate Execution, with the pressing and importunate Demands of 
those Creditors, whose Loans to the United States, Congress are called 
upon by every Impression of Gratitude and good Faith, to satisfy without 
further Delay. 

They are also compelled to acknowledge their Insufficiency of Penetra- 
tion, to discover the Expediency of founding a foederal Town, of not less 
than two Miles square, between two large Cities, either of which offer to 
Congress almost without Expence, every Convenience and Advantage that 
can be created by the Force of Money in a foederal Town. 

They also entertain a painful Doubt, as to the Competency of Congress 
to " found a foederal Town " under the Authority of the confederation. 
By the eighth Article of the Confederation it is declared " That all Charges 
of War and all other Expences that shall be incurred for the common 
Defence or general Well fare, and allowed by the United States in Con- 
gress assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common Treasury " : It 
would seem that Congress having so many Towns in their Choice, in 
which they may hold their sessions and at a very inconsiderable Expence 
erect a foederal Stadt-House and proper Offices, if the Erection of such 
Stadt-House and Offices should become necessary, that the " founding a 
foederal Town " for these Purposes is by no Means essential to the 
["] common Defence or general Wellfare ", and that the Money for such 
a Measure cannot therefore be constitutionally defrayed out of a common 
Treasury ". 

From all which Considerations it appears essential to a satisfactory 
Conclusion, that the Parties be allowed a reasonable Time to consult and 
advise with their Constitutents, especially as an Opportunity for similar 
Advice and Consultation may be said to have been tacitly admitted by 
Congress, in the Case of the two foederal Towns. 

[34] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 148 (enclosed in letter of Feb. 11). 

2 Dec. 23, 1784. A copy of this ordinance is ibid., IV. 147. 

3 The blank space is in the original. 



28 Continental Congress 

Therefore the Delegates of the State of Maryland move that Congress 
suspend the Appointment of Commissioners to carry the Ordinance for 
founding the said Town into Effect till the first of May next. 4 

35. Joseph Gardner to John Bayard. 1 

New York Feby nth, 1785. 
Sir, 

The appointment of Commissioners to carry into effect the ordinance 
of Congress for the Purpose of erecting federal buildings upon the banks 
of the Delaware has taken near four days of this week and has this day 
been effected. Genl. Schuyler, Phil. Dickinson and Robt. Morris are the 
commissioners. Some States have not been hearty in the Measure. Mary- 
land has been principally active in delay — from what motives we are not 
at liberty to do more than conjecture. 2 Perhaps the precipitate retreat of 
Congress last summer from their Capital has its influence, or they rather 
wished the banks of the Potomack had been fixed for the permanent 
federal residence which would have placed the Capital of the United 
States nearer them, but whatever reasons opperated with them it is very 
evident that Congress have lost that influence at home and respectability 
abroad which are essentially necessary to conduct with advantage the 
concerns of a great Nation and which can never be regained while they 
are once or twice a year Moving from place to place. Princeton, Anapolis 
and Trenton have been visited in order and in the very hour of expectation 
each have experienced disapointment. New York is now the temporary 
residence untill a permanent one is provided and if this should fail Perhaps 
this City in turn will feel her share of Chagrin by another removal — in 
short Sir there appears no end to removals but in the erection of a per- 
manent federal House in which each State will have an intrest and in 
some degree find themselves at home. 

We gave a Cheerfull assent to the ordinance at Trenton convinced 
of the advantage and necessity of the measure and believing that it would 
meet the approbation of our constitutents who have generally stood first 
in executing every thing that appeared calculated to promote the Honor 
and happiness of the federal government. 

The Place proposed in the ordinance whether on this or that side the 
Delaware is very favorable to Pennsylvania. Much of the Money expended 
there will finally center in our State — this deserves attention. The offer 
made by new Jersey of thirty thousand pounds and territorial Jurisdiction 
give rise to an inquiry which we have frequently heard, what will Penn- 
sylva. do? to this we cannot answer but as the Legislature are now sitting 
we state these things to you in order that they may have it in their Power 
to favor us with their instructions upon this point as soon as convenient. 

Wednesday next is appointed for discussing the report of a committee 
respecting the appointments of additional commissioners of acctv and 

* See nos. 28, 33, ante, 35-38, post. 
[35]» Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See no. 34. ante; cf. nos. 36-38, 51-53. 95. >o*. Post. 



February, 1785 29 

we have reason to hope it will fully answer the intention of the house, a 
compleat Copy of the Laws and resolutions of the legislature since the 
revolution are very necessary for us therefore we request that we may be 
furnished with them as early as convenient. 3 

We have heard nothing of the Wyoming Bussiness since we last wrote 
you. 

We have Honor to be Sir Your Very hble Servts. 

Jos. Gardner 

[P. S.] this letter was intended a Joint one but Mr. Henry is out 
therefore wants his signature. 



36. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(William Paca). 1 

New-York Feby. nth, 1785. 
Sir, 

On the 8th Instant Congress being about to proceed to appoint Com- 
missioners to carry into Effect their Ordinance of \blank~], 2 We there- 
upon brought into Debate a Motion for postponing the Appointment of 
Commissioners, till the Delegates representing the several States could 
consult with their Constituents in a Matter so important and momentous. 
This Motion going off by Adjournment, We moved on the 10th a Limita- 
tion of the Suspension till the first of May. 3 Having obtained by this 
Procedure the Sense of the House which We found generally opposed to 
a Suspension, and not being possessed of any Official Opinion from the 
State, We thought it best to decline our Right of Entry on the Journals 
till We could be officially advised. Out of eleven States on the Floor, 
there appeared in Favor of a Suspension, the State of New Hampshire, 
one Delegate from Massachusetts, one Delegate from Virginia with the 
State of Maryland. After submitting to your Excellency the inclosed 
Copy of our Motion of the 10th which contains the Substance of that 
made on the 8th it is almost unnecessary to add that on a candid Review 
of the Circumstances of the United States We are sincerely penetrated with 
the Policy and Necessity of a Suspension of the Operation of the Ordi- 
nance. Congress have elected Generals Schuyler, Dickinson and Mr. 
Robert Morris Commissioners to execute the Ordinance. 4 

8 See no. 32, ante, and the Journals, Feb. II, 16, 23. 
[36] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 146 (signed by McHenry and Hindman). 

2 Dec. 23, 1784. 

3 The motion is no. 34, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Feb. 8-1 1 ; cf. nos. 33-35, ante, 37, 38, post. Schuyler was elected 
Feb. 10, Dickinson and Morris Feb. 11. On Feb. 14 Thomson notified the commissioners of 
their elections (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 53; letter to Schuyler in N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Schuyler Papers, no. 2070). Schuyler declined (Journals, Mar. 10), and on Mar. 16 John 
Brown of Rhode Island was chosen in his stead (he had been nominated originally on 
Jan. 18 by David Howell). See further no. 160, post. 



30 Continental Congress 

37. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts 

Assembly. 1 

New York 12th Feby., 1785. 
Gentlemen, 

the meeting of congress at Trenton in pursuance of the resolution of 
the 28th [26th] of april last was attended with many embarrassments; 
the town is small, and the accomodations not so extensive as the various 
officers of congress required for the convenient transaction of the public 
business; many of these accomodations were contrary to the expectation 
of congress taken up by the Members of the legislature of New Jersey, 
then sitting at that place ; a general uneasiness in consequence was soon 
manifest in the members of congress, and a preference for Philadelphia 
was daily increasing. 

the present policy of carrying into effect the Resolve of congress for 
their alternate residence on the Potomack and the Delaware, was made a 
question, and induced the Resolution of the 20th of December, declaring 
the inexpediency of erecting several Buildings at more than one place at 
present. 

We were fully impressed with the inconveniences of an appropriation 
of money for the erection for even one sett of federal buildings; the 
pressing demands for an annual discharge of the interest of our foreign 
debt, the same obligation applying with equal justice to the Debts due 
to our own citizens, were viewed in connection with the backwardness 
of some of the states in furnishing their respective quotas of former 
requisitions and operated against an appropriation. 

On the other hand, the numerous inconveniences of the frequent re- 
movals of congress, the dissatisfaction that some of the States would 
entertain, provided their individual wishes, on this subject, were not 
gratified, the great loss of time, and division of Sentiments likely to take 
place, in future discussions of this question, the exposure of the public 
records to injury, or destruction, in fine, the opinion of irresolution, and 
want of union, which the frequent changes of residence would probably 
produce in foreign nations, are considerations of importance, and were 
allowed their weight — our situation at Trenton convinced us that a small 
village was unfit for the residence of congress; and it did not escape us 
that their sessions being held in any large commercial city, would never 
be found beneficial to federal measures; the experience already acquired 
on this subject has made the proposition most clear, that the council of 
the United States ought to be remote from large trading cities, and free 
from their influence. 

comparing these sentiments we were induced to esteem it a measure 
of political necessity, to conclude in favor of an immediate erection of 
federal buildings, on the Delaware; and until such buildings could be 
ready for the reception of congress, to fix on a situation, less exceptionable 

[37] l Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 258 (in the writing of King and signed hy Gerry, 
Holten, Partridge, and King). The letter is addressed to "The Hon*bk the president of 
the Senate, and hon'ble Speaker of the House of Representatives of Massachusetts". 



February, 1785 31 

than Trenton, for their temporary residence. Had we been reconciled 
to Pennsylvania on the subject of her former defect in support of the 
Honor of the United States, yet we found that state so central to the 
union, that holding a casting vote, and it being her individual interest 
that Philadelphia should be the residence of congress, she would have 
impeded every measure for the completion of the federal buildings, and 
thereby have kept congress in that city. New York is so far on one side 
the union, that this dificulty is not to be apprehended ; the accomodations 
of this city are equal to those of Philadelphia, the climate more salutary, 
and the erection of federal buildings free from impediment ; our exertions 
therefore were in favor of New York as the temporary residence of con- 
gress, who yesterday made choice of General Schuyler, of New York, 
General Dickenson of New Jersey, and Robert Morris Esquire of Penn- 
sylvania, commissioners to carry into effect the ordinance of the 21st 
[23d] Day of December, relative to the federal buildings. 2 

the instruction of the Legislature relative to an explanation of the 
fourth Article of the definitive treaty between the united states and Great 
Britain has been laid before congress, and is now in the Hands of the 
grand committee : the inclosed extract of a letter from the commissioners 
for forming commercial Treaties, (and numbered 1) will inform the 
Legislature in what stage that business is abroad, in pursuance of an 
instruction of congress. 3 

the progress made in instituting a federal court between Massachusetts 
and New York previous to the Time when the agents left us, has un- 
doubtedly been communicated to the legislature, soon after we forwarded 
duplicates of the joint Letter of the Agents of the two states to each 
commissioner, with a letter signed by us copy whereof is inclosed (No. 2) 
these Dispatches were covered to the address of Messrs. S. and R. Pur- 
viance of Baltimore with our letter to those Gentlemen copy whereof is 
inclosed (No. 3). Copy of their answer is likewise inclosed (No. 4). 
the business in congress upon the subject of our federal court has assumed 
a less amicable appearance than was expected conformably to the agree- 
ment of the agents of the two States, a copy whereof is inclosed (No. 5). 
congress on the 21st Day of January proceeded to determine the place 
where the court should be held, and Williamsburgh in Virginia was fixed 
upon by five states, there being nine on the floor; this determination is 
contained in the inclosure (No. 6). 

the advantages of this decision to Massachusetts will be readily under- 
stood, when it is observed that it furnished the Highest probability that 

2 Cf. nos. 33-36, ante, 38, 51-53, post. 

3 The Massachusetts instructions (Nov. 10, 1784, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 65, 
vol. II., f. 347, attested copy) relate not only to bona fide debts but also to persons who 
left Massachusetts prior to Oct. 5, 1784. They were referred to a committee Jan. 17 
(the personnel appears to have been partially altered Jan. 18), and the committee re- 
newed Aug. 19. After that date all trace of the business is lost. There is no record of 
its being transferred to the grand committee. The letter from the commissioners for 
forming commercial treaties, an extract of which was enclosed, was doubtless that of 
vol. II., f. 347, attested copy) relate not only to bona fide debts but also to persons who 
the Journals, Jan. 27 (p. 23 n.). 



32 Continental Congress 

those of the commissioners, who are of our nomination by this measure 
would be induced to accept, as it fixed the court in the vicinity of their 
homes, the Agents of New York discovered this benefit, and to defeat it. 
preferred a memorial to congress, praying an alteration of their determi- 
nation on this subject, copy of this memorial is inclosed No. 7. We 
opposed the agency of congress upon this memorial (without remarking 
upon the erroneous reasoning, and statements, it contains) on the ground, 
that the only authority congress has upon this Subject in the present stage 
of it, was derived from the agreement of the agents of the two states ; and 
that in pursuance of that agreement, congress had made their award, 
which was conclusive to the parties. Although New York have been unable 
to induce congress to annull their determination of the place for holding 
the federal court, yet they were in Train of accomplishing their wishes, by 
an indirect effect of their memorial — the president apprehended that he 
was not at liberty to transmit the official information to the commissioners, 
of their respective appointments, and of the place fixed for holding the 
court, until congress should take some resolution on the memorial of the 
agents of New York, this opinion we could not discover the propriety 
of, but attempted in vain to alter, by a second agreement between the 
agents of the two States, it is determined — " That if either of the com- 
missioners shall not within two months next after congress shall have 
appointed a place for holding the court declare his acceptance of the trust, 
he shall be considered as not accepting thereof, and his place shall be 
supplied in the same manner as if he had expressly declined ". Seventeen 
days had elapsed after the appointment of the place for holding the court, 
and no information had been officially transmitted to either of the com- 
missioners except Mr. Rutledge of their appointment, in this situation 
we judged that the interest of the State would justify us in forwarding 
attested copies from the secretary of congress to the commissioners of our 
own nomination by a special express : and Major Story, whom we engaged 
for this purpose, sat out yesterday for Williamsburgh, where Mr. Wythe 
lives and from thence, on his return, will call on each of the commissioners 
of our nomination, and also on Mr. Johnson and Mr. Harrison, for their 
several answers, this measure was attended with an expence, for the 
discharge whereof we have drawn on the Treasurer Mr. Ivers for two 
Hundred and sixty mexican Dollars, and rely upon an order of the Legis- 
lature for the timely payment of our bills. We do not at present see any 
mode whereby New York can go off from this determination ; although 
after the acceptance of the commissioners of our nomination, if it is 
agreeable to them, to come farther northward than Williamsburgh to hear 
the cause, we can discover no objection to our acceding to such a propo- 
sition ; but then it must be a measure of mutual consent, and not the result 
of an acknowledged power in congress upon the subject. 

We have been particular in our communication to the Legislature 
upon this business, because we wished them to have every information 
touching a subject, which we do not esteem unimportant. 4 

4 Sec nos. 14-16, ante, 65. 79, 82, post. 



February, 1785 33 

We inclose for the information of the Legislature the form of a deed 
(No. 8) which we propose to execute for the cession of western Territory 
— to cede a less extent of territory than New York have ceded we judge 
would be wholly impolitic at this period; to cede a larger extent if we had 
no other objections might appear like an attempt to influence the federal 
court in our expected Trial; we therefore adopted as a line wholly free 
from exception, the same western boundary which New York made, in 
their cession to the United States, the confidence of the Legislature placed 
in their Delegates upon this subject, is a painful one to discharge, the 
business not requiring an immediate execution, and being so very im- 
portant, we thought it our duty to communicate to the Legislature the 
extent of territory we proposed to cede, and afterwards to wait a proper 
time for their instruction relative thereto. If we receive no additional 
instruction upon the subject during the present session of the Legislature, 
we shall presume that the proposed cession meets their approbation and 
will proceed to execute the deed. 5 .... 

the exequatur of the quality of Mr. Soderstrom, published by the 
authority of his excellency governor Hancock (Mr. Soderstrom not hav- 
ing been announced to, or recognized by, the united states in congress 
assembled, in any quality or character, of consul) has been remarked on 
here ; as a procedure adverse to the principles of confederation ; and may 
induce some act of congress upon that subject. 6 .... 



38. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York Feby. 13th, 1785. 
Sir, 

Having received no late dispatches from your Excellency, we are of 
course ignorant what part of ours have reached you, or the council, we 
will however begin with the resolutions, which respect the erection of 
foederal buildings at the falls of the Delaware, and the intermediate resi- 
dence of Congress here. 

When the question was first brought forward for erecting a foederal 
town, it was the wish of our delegation to decline a decision on it for the 
time, and pursue the business of the union, either where we were, at 
Philidelphia, or in New-York ; to either of which places we were willing 
to adjourn. But in pursuit of this course, we had not the assistance of a 
single State, (the delegation of Maryland being absent). 

The two ends of the Continent had heretofore, upon this subject, been 
drawing in different directions, the eastern and middle States in favor 
of the Delaware, and the southern in favor of the Potowmack. The 
division upon this question, since they left Philidelphia, had induced the 

5 See vol. VII., pp. 148, 335, and the Journals, Apr. 5 (p. 231 n.), 13 (pp. 262, 
266), 18, 19, May 20 (pp. 382, 386), 23 ; cf. no. no, post. 

See nos. 58, 97, post. 
[38] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Hardy and Monroe); Henry, 
Patrick Henry, III. 273. 



34 Continental Congress 

unsettled and vagrant system which had taken place, a system so destruc- 
tive of confidence among the citizens of the Union, and dishonorable 
to the foederal councils throughout the world. The contest had now 
come to a point, whether this should continue to be the case, and the 
Congress move alternately to Annapolis, and Trenton annually, and carry 
on the foederal buildings at both places at the same time, or no buildings 
at all, under the resolution of Princeton ; or come to other resolutions, 
changing those arrangements, were the questions before us : questions 
too, which were forced upon us, from every quarter of the Union. The 
only prospect for obtaining a decision in favor of Georgeton had depended 
on the support of the southern States, and we soon had the mortification 
to find, that they had given it up. By them it was urged that the object of 
the southern Gentlemen was, when they left their States, to move to a 
northern climate ; that they generally visited N. York, N. port and Boston ; 
that by water, their passage was as easy to either place, as to the Chessa- 
peake : that they had no object to serve by a situation on the Chessapeak, 
and that they perceived no great foederal end, which could be obtained 
by it for the present, at least none to occasion a longer delay, or that would 
counterbalance the injury arising from the present state. This was the 
language of Georgia, south-Carolina, and one of the members from North- 
Carolina (there being but two on the floor), and all the States east- 
ward of Maryland. There were then nine States in Congress, eight of 
which held this opinion, and New-Hampshire and Connecticut were daily 
expected. In this situation it was proposed " as inexpedient to erect for 
the present, more than one foederal town ", and to this we agreed. It was 
then proposed " to appropriate 100,000 dollars to this purpose ", and for 
this eight States were decidedly in the affirmative. The situation then 
became more interesting to Virginia. The only question before us was, 
shall we frustrate what the sense and voice of the union require, frustrate 
it too only for a few days, for upon the arrival of Connecticut or New- 
Hampshire, it will be carried without us, or accede to a measure which 
they all think so necessary for the general interest? and we conceived 
that the great principles upon which we entered into the confederal 
respect for the harmony and interests of the union, and a regard for the 
character and honor of our own State, should determine us to pursue the 
latter course. 

The next question was " where shall the town be erected ". We had, 
you perceive, before this, lost all hopes of Georgeton, but we thought it 
our duty to put the question on it, for which we had only the State of 
Virginia. It was then carried in favor of the falls of the Delaware. Many 
arguments occur to us, in favor of a foederal-town. If we reason from 
experience, we are inclined to think many disadvantages must arise, from 
the residence of Congress in a great commercial city, a city more especially, 
under the jurisdiction of a particular State. We suspect that inconvenience 
hath, in some instances, been already felt from this source, parties appear 
to have been formed at particular oeras for and against particular char- 
acters, who were unworthy of parties, in a much less dignified assembly. 
In all great bodies there are usually some Men, who are easily won on by 



February, 1785 35 

little considerations, and the nature of the foederal government is so con- 
structed, that it is much more difficult to carry than obstruct a measure. 
Those then who are under an improper influence, from whatever source 
it may arise, are always the most obstinate : they will hold to their point, 
while those who seek only the public good, will make concessions to carry 
a measure, which they think of importance to the general interest. With 
pain we conceive we have seen these remnants of parties, contending with 
more warmth than the public interest required in favor of measures, which 
derived their consequence, merely from the circumstance of their having 
been an object, with one of the sides. And we have been also happy to 
find, that Congress had so far extricated themselves from their influence, 
by moving out of their reach, as to weigh the measures merely in the scales 
of reason, while they looked with equal indifference upon those, who 
espoused or opposed them from other considerations. 

In a great commercial town, it is almost impossible, to keep any thing 
a secret. The Ministers of other Powers have their eyes upon us, and 
we have reason to suspect that our transactions of the most important, and 
secret nature, do not long remain secret to them. If this is effected by the 
too frequent intercourse which takes place under the present state, or the 
indiscretion or villany, of those intrusted with them, it will be more easily 
discovered and prevented in a foederal-town. Indeed every consideration 
of interest, propriety and dignity urge with us in favor of the measure. 
Upon what terms is it to be erected, is also an interesting consideration. 
The delegates of Jersey inform'd Congress that their State would advance 
a considerable sum, and those of Pensylvania did the same, provided it 
should be on their side. Although it might be improper to accept it as a 
gift, still we conceive the same objections do not exist, as a loan. We 
borrow from foreigners, and with more propriety may we do it from each 
other. With respect to the temporary residence, we were indifferent, be- 
tween this place and Philidelphia. We know not how our residence at 
either place, could essentially affect our State, farther than it respected the 
members in Congress ; and upon general principles we thought this entitled 
to the preference. The province of Canada is at present in possession of 
the furr-trade. Our first exertion should be to draw it within the States, 
and before any competition can arise between the communication down the 
Mohawk, thro' this Port, and the Potowmack, we shall have moved hence 
to the falls of the Delaware. 

Upon the arrival of Mr. McHenry from Maryl'd he moved for a 
repeal of the ordinance of Trenton but was not seconded, so soon as his 
Colleague joined him, he moved for a suspension of the measures neces- 
sary to carry it into effect; for this purpose he introduced a resolution 
with a long preamble, containing a very illiberal censure upon the pro- 
ceedings of Congress in that instance, as well as upon the measure of a 
foederal-town. All Congress seemed desirous to keep it from the journals, 
and at length succeeded as to the preamble, the resolution was negatived. 

Having failed doing any thing effectual at Trenton we conceived this 
measure had taken its direction. Our friends of Maryland should then 



36 Continental Congress 

have been upon the floor to have aided us, and why now fill the journals 
with vain and fruitless opposition, but to disseminate an opinion of 
divisions in our councils, and throw contempt on our government. 2 

39. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York Feby. 14th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The commissioners for treating with the western Indians did 
yesterday present to Congress the Treaty that they have made with the 
Wyandots, Dela wares etc. A copy of the Treaty I have now the honor 
to enclose you. 2 The Shawanese, you observe, are not there — it seems that 
persons disaffected to us, prevented them from meeting the Commissioners. 

The Wyandots being stated as their superiors, may perhaps prevent 
any mischief from the Shawanese not being included in this Treaty. 

Another Treaty will be held with the more Southern Indians in the 
spring or first of the Summer. The policy, seems to be a good one, of 
enclosing as it were, the Indian nations within our acknowledged territory. 
It will probably tend to civilise them sooner, and by preventing intrigues 
with them, render them more certainly our friends. 8 

The Court of Spain has appointed Mr. Gardoque their Charge des 
affairs to the United States, and we have reason soon to expect his arrival. 
We are to apprehend a very firm ostensible demand from him, of the 
exclusive navigation of the Mississippi. His secret orders touching an 
Ulterior agreement may be another thing. 

Time and wise negotiation will unfold this very important matter, and 

I hope may secure to the U. S. and those Individual States concerned, the 
great advantages that will be derived from a free navigation of that 
river. 4 .... 

2 Sec nos. 2 (note 2), 28 (note 2), 33-37. ante; cf. nos. 51-53, 95, 101, post. 
[39] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 329. 

2 The text of the treaty with the Wyandots, Delawares, Chippewas. and Ottawas 
at Fort Mcintosh, Jan. 21, 1785, is in the Journals, June 3. A committee appointed Feb. 
14 made a report on the treaty Mar. 7, which, after amendment Mar. 17, was adopted 
Mar. 18. See further the Journals, May 3, June 15, and no. 153, post. A letter from 
Williamson to Washington Feb. 19 relative to the Indian treaty and (apparently) to the 
proposed new state in the northwest has not been found. Washington's reply (Mar. 15) 
is in Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 104. See also no. 125, note 5, post. In the passage 
omitted Lee refers to Washington's letter of Dec. 14 and his own reply Dec 26 (vol. 
YIL, no. 742). Washington's letter of Dec. 14 is in Am. Phil. Soc., Lee Papers, II. 
258, printed in Life of Lee, II. 6. 

8 A committee on the state of the southern Indians, appointed Dec. 15, 1784. made 
a report Mar. 4. The report was recommitted Mar. 10, the amended report debated Mar. 

II and 15. and on the latter date adopted. On Mar. 21 Benjamin Hawkins, Daniel Car- 
roll, and William Peery were chosen as commissioners, two additional commissioners, 
Andrew Pickens and Joseph Martin being added later the same day. On Mar. 24 the 
place was fixed as Charleston, the date as May 16. Carroll declined, and Lachlan Mc- 
intosh was chosen in his stead (Journals, May II, 16). See further nos. 57, 78-82, 85, 
93, 124, post; cf. the Journals, Apr. 25. 

4 Information of the appointment of Don Diego Gardoqui as minister to the United 
States was received through a letter of William Carmichael Oct. 12, 1784. read in 
Congress Feb. 10. See the Journals, Feb, 10, 14, 15 (pp. 55 n., 64 n., 67 n.). Carmichael's 
letter and enclosures (Floridablanca to Galvez Oct. 2, and to Carmichael Oct. 7) are 
in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1781-1789, III. 287-290; Jay's report (Feb. 15) is ibid., p. 292. 



February, 1785 37 

P. S. I was honored with your favor of the 8th of feby. with its 
enclosures after the above letter was written. I will shortly reply to its 
contents, and your letter for the Marquis shall be forwarded to France. 5 



40. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York, February 14, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of December 9th, 2 has just now been put into my hands, 
together with the printed papers that you were pleased to send me, but I 

have not yet had the pleasure of finding Colonel Grayson here 

With respect to official intelligence from Europe, we have none of great 
consequence ; Mr. Adams thinks, that the negotiations of this winter will 
properly accommodate the difference between the emperor and the United 
Netherlands, and our charge des affairs at Madrid, informs us that the court 
of Spain has appointed Mr. Gardoque to come here as their minister, and 
we expect him daily. His purpose is to treat of commerce, and territorial 
limits. 3 Our ministers at Paris are generally proposing treaties of amity 
and commerce with all the European commercial powers, and they receive 
answers very civil, but as yet no treaties formed, except such as you have 
seen notified from Congress 

The attention of Congress, has been applied to our western concerns, 
as your Excellency will see by the treaties made with the Six Nations, 
and the Western Indians. In the latter, the Shawanese are not included, 
but their being prevented by some active British emissary, from coming 
to the latter treaty, will probably not be attended with ill consequences, as 
they are very much under the control of the Six Nations, and of the 
Wyandots their powerful neighbors. The spring will open further treaties 
with the more southern tribes north-west of the Ohio, and also on the 
south-eastern side, upon ours, and the frontiers of North and South 
Carolina and Georgia. 4 .... 

Gardoqui's credentials (Sept. 25) and commission (Sept. 27), with a letter from Florida- 
blanca to the President of Congress (Oct. 8), are ibid., pp. 137-139. Carmichael's letter 
and enclosures are also in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., VI. 825-827. Concerning Gardoqui's 
arrival see nos. 40, 44, 101, 107, 124, 137, 142, post. 
5 See no. 51, post. 
[40] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 331; Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 277; Lee, Life of 
Richard Henry Lee, II. 56. 

2 Governor Henry's letter (dated January 9, not December) is in W. W. Henry, 
Patrick Henry, III. 265. It was principally in reply to Lee's letter of Dec. 18, 1784 (ibid., 
p. 247; also in Letters of Richard Henry Lee, II. 314, and in vol. VII. of these Letters, 
p. 630). He planned to send his letter and certain papers by William Grayson, who was 
leaving Richmond " tomorrow morning ". 

3 See no. 39, note 4, ante. For letters from the ministers in Europe see no. 13, 
note 2, ante. 

4 See no. 39, ante. 



38 Continental Congress 

41. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams. 1 

My dear sir, New YorK ^ th Feb y- J 7 8 5- 

.... With Respect to foreign Affairs, a Report is before Congress, 
for accepting agreable to his repeated Request, Doctor Franklins Resigna- 
tion. Mr. Jefferson will I think be his Successor. You and Governor 
Rutledge are in Nomination for the Court of London, and I presume the 
prospect is not in Favour of the Election of the latter. Who will be sent 
to Madrid I know not, possibly Mr. Rutledge. 2 .... 

42. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen. 1 

My dear Cousin, NeW YoRK fd * ****** 

.... I am from all parts of the U. S. written to in my private capacity, 
so that I am at this moment at least 20 letters in arrear to my correspon- 
dents. To answer them all punctually would at once destroy my health, 
and prevent all attention to public business. I do assure you, that the 
business, and the ceremonies of my office, are too much for my feeble 
state of health 

43. David Howell to . x 

Dear Sir, New York Feb - 2 °' x 7 8 5- 

You will receive enclosed a little pamphlet on the Test-law of Penn- 
sylvania, written by Dr. Benjn. Rush. 2 That State is now in a great fer- 
ment, And there are so many points on which they split that the confusion 
is carried to great lengths. Some are for the Constitution, and some 
against it. Some for their funding bill and some against it. Some for 
foederal and some for state funds and some for neither funds nor pay- 
ment. Another division is for and against the test-law. but this cannot 
last long. All these collisions and discussions are perhaps the natural 
consequence of the heterogeneous materials of which that State is so 
remarkably composed, and will I doubt not eventually lead to the increase 
of knowledge and Security of freedom. 

My last official Letter to the State contains all the information I can 
give. 

With best regards to all friends, I am, etc. 

David HowkLL. 

P. S. If you approve of the Sentiments in this pamphlet you may let 
it circulate. 

[41] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. A copy of this letter was at one time in possession of 
W. R. Benjamin of New York. 

2 Adams and Rutledge were nominated for the mission to Great Britain Jan. 31. 
Adams was chosen Feb. 24. See nos. 28, 33, ante, 44, 45, 53, 65, 66, 69, 70, 72, 73, 101, 
post. In an omitted passage of this letter Gerry remarks, " Governor Hancock has 
resigned. Thanks be to ". 

[42]* Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 336. 

[43] ' MSS. of the late William D. Ely of Providence. 

2 Considerations upon the Present Test-Law of Pennsylvania: Addressed to 
the Legislature and Freemen of the State (Philadelphia, Hall and Sellers, 1784, pp. 23). 



February, 1785 39 

44. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams. 1 

New York 24th Feby. 1785. 
my dear Mr. Adams, 

I informed You a few Days since, that Yourself, Mr. Chancellor 
Levingston and Mr. J. Rutledge, were in Nomination for the Court of 
London, since which many attempts have been made to determine the 
Choice, and this Morning it was effected and devolves on yourself. 2 I 
am happy to give You this Information, both on publick Consideration, 
and on the Score of Friendship, the former however being on every such 
important Occasion the predominant principle, in my Mind, at the first 
balloting You had five, Mr. Chancellor four and Mr. Rutledge two Votes : 
and the States were tenacious of their Vote, for several Days. Temper 
was however preserved, and produced an Explanation by which it appeared 
that the Southern States were impressed with the Idea, that You being 
totally averse to the Slave Trade, would not exert Yourself at the Court 
of London to obtain Restitution of the Negroes taken and detained from 
them in Violation of the Treaty ; and that in negotiating it, You was not so 
anxious as the other Commissioners respecting the American Debts, and 
would not, in all probability, be as assiduous in executing the Instruc- 
tions of Congress for discharging the American Merchants from payment 
of the Interest that accrued during the War, and for postponing the 
payment of the principal for three Years after the Signature of the pre- 
liminaries of the peace. Whether these were real or ostensible Reasons, 
It is not in my power to determine. I only state them as what were urged 
by the States opposed to your Choice. I find however that One part of 
your Secret Journal, wherein Mention is made of a Compliment paid You 
as being " the Washington of the Negotiation " and that a paragraph of 
one of your Letters describing the proper Character of the Minister for 
London, that he should be possessed of the " cardinal Vertues ", compared 
with other Letters of yours claiming the Appointment, are urged as Traits 
of a weak passion, to which a Minister ought never to be subject, and as 
an Evidence that an artful Negotiator may flatter You out of important 
objects — these your Friends and disinterested persons consider as subtil 
Devices of Seekers, and their Dependants to Supplant You; and every 
person who knows the Value of an able faithful and indefatigable 
Minister, who has been long in his Country's Service and rendered the 
most essential Services to her Cause considers with Horror such Measures 
and is happy in defeating them. 3 it is nevertheless my Duty, as a Friend 

[44] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 In his letter of Feb. 14 (no. 41, ante) Gerry mentions only Adams and Rut- 
ledge as in nomination. Livingston appears to have been nominated for the first time 
on Feb. 18 (by Beatty of New Jersey). The nomination was at some time withdrawn 
but was renewed Feb. 24 by Walter Livingston, then again withdrawn. See the Journals, 
pp. 85 n., 98 n. 

3 In his journal of the peace negotiations Nov. 30, 1782, Adams remarks that all 
of his colleagues " were throughout the whole business, when they attended, very attentive 
and very able, especially Mr. Jay, to whom the French, if they knew as much of his 
negociations as they do of mine, would very justly give the title with which they have 
inconsiderately decorated me, that of ' Le Washington de la negotiation', a very flattering 
compliment, indeed, to which I have not a right, but sincerely think it belongs to Mr. Jay " 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., VI. 93). Adams's letter in which he set forth his idea "of 



40 Continental Congress 

to my Country, to Yourself, and to the Cause of Vertue, to give You 
confidentially this Information, that Your publick and private Letters 
may not be in future abused to such unworthy purposes, indeed I think 
Cave is applicable, as it respects some of your Correspondents high in 
office at Massachusetts. 

These You must be sensible are Communications, which nothing could 
induce me to make, but the Necessity of your co-operating with those 
who are determined to support You on this side the Atlantic, in putting 
a stop to, or at least in checking such ruinous Intrigues. We are deter- 
mined to attain if possible an act of Congress, that they will not elect any 
person to publick office, whilst a Member of Congress, nor untill six 
Months after he shall have been a Member. 4 

I wish you Success in all your Negotiations and remain with the sin- 
cerest Esteem Your real Friend and hum'l Se't 

E. Gerry. 

N. B. Your Election was finally carried by nine States. 

[P. S.] Congress have resolved, that each appointment of a Minister, 
Secretary to a Legation or Charge des affairs, shall be for a Term not 
exceeding three Years; but this Restriction does not render them in- 
capable of being re-elected. 8 



45. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

N York Febry. 24th, 1785. 
S'r, 

We had the Honor to receive your Excell'ys favr. of the 28th ult : 
with the Papers relating to the Wyoming Affair, of which we will take 
due Care. No person has yet appear'd from thence to pursue that business, 
and it is said, but on what ground we know not, that they have prevented 
any occasion of an application here, as they have forcibly repossessed 
themselves of their Lands. It stands Assigned for an early hearing before 
Congress, but must if possible be delayed till some person appears from 
that Quarter to support it. We see by the Philada. Papers that yr. Ex's 
Letter to Presid't Dickenson upon that subject has been lately laid before 
the Legislature of that State, and we shall probably soon hear from him 
something further relating to it. 2 The Act relating to the Impost, we find 

the qualifications necessary for an American foreign minister in general, and particularly 
and above all to the court of St. James" was written to Livingston Feb. 5. 1783 (ibid., 
p. 242). For Madison's comment on the passage see these Letters, vol. VII., no. 180. 

In the margin of Gerry's letter Adams wrote: "These are too gross Ar[ti]fices to 
conceal a Secret Influence to require much Attention. ' Neckar est vain et glorieux ' 
may destroy the greatest Financier and best Minister in France. But some thing more 
will be necessary, than ' il abond trop dans son Sens ', to destroy the small Man here 
aimed at." 

4 See the Journals, May 23. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 17, 18; cf. ibid., Feb. 7 (p. 45 n.). 
[45] ' Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 106 (draft in the writing of Johnson). 
2 See no. 17, ante, and no. 50, post. 



February, 1785 41 

upon the Files of Congress. That subject has been some time before a 
Comm'ee of Congress, who do not yet Report, probably because they wait 
to see what the Assembly of this State now sitting, and before whom a 
Bill is depending upon that subject, will do in the affair. 3 The Cession 
of Western Territory by the State of Connecticut we some time since 
formally laid before Congress, mov'd their Acceptance of it, and offer'd 
to execute a Conveyance pursuant to the Act of the Legislature. It was 
strenuously objected to, but after some Debate refer'd to a Committee, 
who have not yet enter 'd upon the consideration of it. If they do not do 
it, after waiting a reasonable time we shall conceive it to be our duty to 
call upon them to take it up. Two Objections especially are made to it, 
1st That it is within the Cession of Virginia. 2ly, That even the 120 M. 
reserv'd by Connecticut is included within the extensive Purchase lately 
made of the Western Indians and Ceded to the United States by the 
Treaty recently return'd to Congress by the Commissioners. So that they 
must not only receive from Conn't a Cession of what is already their own, 
but implicitly confirm to that State 120 M. of Territory already Purchased 
by, and belonging to the United States, Our pretence for reserving which, 
it is alledged, is also unfounded, as it belongs to the United States and 
not to Connect't to furnish the Lands for the Satisfaction of the Soldiers 
of whose Interests we affect to be so careful. To these are added the 
original deficiences of our Title, and the decision at Trenton against 
it. The Answers we shall give to these Objections we need not state, 
they will readily occur to your Excell'y. 4 

Congress have, since we wrote last, been very busy, and have taken 
up a great Variety of affairs, yet no very capital matters are yet bro't 
to a conclusion, many are Reported upon and more yet lie before Comm'ees. 
The Papers have some time since announced to you the Election of the 
Comm'rs of the Treasury. And Mr. Adams, after some contest, is now 
appointed Ambassador to the Court of London, to Negotiate the very 
important matters in dispute with that Court. 5 It is resolv'd to send a 
Commiss'r into the Western Territories on the Mississippi and Ohio 
where it is said the Settlers are in great disorder, to endeavour the restor- 
ation of Peace and order, and to prepare the way for the Establishment 
of regular government in those extensive and very valuable Countries 
which are rapidly filling with Inhabitants. 6 A demand has been made of 
Longchamps by the Court of France, a very delicate and important affair 

3 See no. 33, note 7, ante. It would appear from the committee report of Mar. 15 
that at that time all the states had in some form complied except Rhode Island, New 
York, and Georgia. See nos. 82, 84, 89, no, 394, post. 

4 The Connecticut act of cession was laid before Congress May 25, 1784. See 
vol. VII., pp. 568, 596. On Feb. 15, 1785, the Connecticut delegates offered to execute 
the conveyance. The motion was referred to a committee, which was renewed Apr. n, 
again renewed May 2, and once more renewed Jan. 18, 1786. The cession was finally 
accepted, after much debate, May 26, 1786. See nos. no, 133, 172, post. 

5 See nos. 28, 33, 41, 44, ante, 65, 66, 69, 70, 72, 73, 79, 101, post. 

6 The action was taken, Feb. 21, on a memorial of Francois Carbonneaux, laid 
before Congress Dec. 9, 1784. On Feb. 28 Henry Marchant and Col. William S. Smith 
were put in nomination for the commission, and on Mar. 1 Smith was chosen. See also 
the Journals, Feb. 9 (p. 54 n.), 15 (committee report), Mar. 4, 14 (committee report). 
The Carbonneaux memorial, dated Dec. 8, 1784, is in Alvord, Illinois Historical Collec- 



42 Continental Congress 

which has claimed the Attention of Congress, but has not yet receiv'd a 
full discussion. He will not, we Imagine, be Deliver'd up, but the Question 
is what Answer shall be given and upon what grounds the denial may be 
most prudently placed. 7 

46. Rufus King to the President of the Massachusetts 
Senate (Samuel Adams). 1 

New York 25th Feby. 1785. 

In the earliest instructions to the Minister at the Court of London I 
hope the individual interest of Massachusetts will be attended to. the 
objects of commerce, including the carrying trade are the concern of 
many States, and will not be omitted ; but you will excuse me in solliciting 
your attention to a point of negociation highly important to Massachu- 
setts — I mean, her Eastern boundary. A resolve of Congress of the 29th 
day of January 1784 placed this business in train and originated the 
appointment of Commissioners by Massachusetts to examine into the 
complaints of encroachments by the british on her territory, the com- 
missioners, proceeded to make such examination [and] I think reported to 
the Legislature a state of facts and their opinion on the same, and here the 
business appears to have terminated. 

The resolve above referred to recommends that the proceedings had 
by Massachusetts, should be communicated to Congress, this communi- 
cation has not been made, altho' it is most clearly the policy of Massachu- 
setts to do it, and to procure an Act of Congress upon the subject, that 
shall make it the concern of the Union. 

Congress in their present un-in formed situation can do nothing on the 
subject. If a proper report comes forward to Congress, it undoubtedly 
will become an instruction to their Minister, the application going to 
the Sovereign, in the first instance, will be, not only more proper, but, 
more efficacious, than to any of his Governors. That the interest of 
Massachusetts is concerned in this business, is, not only my apology, but 
my inducement, to introduce it to your attention. 2 

tions, V. 369; the report (Feb. 15) of the committee on the memorial is ibid., p. 370; the 
report (Mar. 14) of the committee on the powers of the commissioners to be appointed is 
ibid., pp. 371-373. Cf. nos. 101 (note 15), 156 (note 5), post. 

7 Marbois brought up the matter in a letter to Jay Jan. 28. On Feb. 10 Marbois 
transmitted to Jay an anonymous letter which he had received and thereupon made the 
formal demand for the surrender of Longchamps. See the Journals, Jan. 17, Feb. II, 14, 
17, 24, Mar. 29, Apr. 27, 28, July 20 (pp. 8 n., 60 n., 64 n., 76 n., 99 n., 210 n., 314 n., 3 
564 n., respectively), Aug. 2, 23. The correspondence between Jay and Marbois i> in 
Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789,1. 109-117, 140, 167, 178. A letter from Jay to President 
Dickinson of Pennsylvania Feb. 15, together with the note of Marbois Feb. to and the 
anonymous letter, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 409. For the rise of the Longchamps case 
see vol. VII., pp. 537 n., 556-561, 606. Cf. nos. 101 (note 8). 117, 124, 191, post. 

[4G] 1 Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 267 (endorsed, " Extract of a letter from the 
Hon'ble Rufus King to the President of the Senate taken by direction of the Sen 
The letter also bears the legislative endorsement : " In Senate March 9th 1785 Read and 
sent down S Adams Presidt. In the House of Representatives March 10th 1785 Read 
and committed to the Committee appointed on the Letter of the 12th ulto. from the 
Delegates of this Commonwealth at Congress Sent up for concurrence Sam A Otis 
Spkr."). 

2 See no. 231, post. 



February, 1785 43 

47. George Partridge to the President of the Massachusetts 
Senate (Samuel Adams). 1 

New York 25th Feb : 1785. 
Sir, 

I must beg leave thro' you to remind the Honorable the General Court, 
that the term for which I can serve them as a Delegate in Congress, will 
expire, (by the Articles of Confederation) the Beginning of next month: 
as I shall then have been three Years in the Delegation. I tho't it necessary 
to mention this, that the Members of the Genl. Court might be reminded 
of filling up the Delegation if they judge it expedient. 

I feel myself happy in retiring to private Life, at a period when the 
Liberties of my Country are so well secured, and when there is so solid a 
Foundation laid for the public Prosperity and happiness : being confident 
that a Country so enlightened as ours, will not fail to build on this foun- 
dation a National Character corrisponding to the Dignity of humane 
nature under a Republican form of government, where Justice Wisdom 
and every Principle of virtue may operate unrestrained. 

P. S. As my Hon'le Colleague Mr. Gerry will go to Boston in a few 
Days, and will give the Hon'le Court any Information which they may 
require; I shall think it unnecessary for me to return home by the way 
of Boston. 

48. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York 25th Feby. 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Nothing further is done respecting a Land Office, but I presume 
it will be soon taken up, as the Indian Commissioners have made con- 
siderable progress in their Negotiations. 2 

A Report is made to raise 1500 Men, but what Number will be agreed 
on, and in what Mode, Time must determine — the proposition is to 
raise them for three Years. 3 

Another Report is made for recommending to the States an alteration 
of the Confederation, so as to invest Congress with the power to regulate 
the Trade of the United States, as well with foreign powers as with each 
other. 4 and whilst I am on this Subject give me Leave to enquire, 

[47] 1 Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 266 (bearing the legislative endorsement: "In 
Senate March 9th 1785 Read and sent down S Adams Presidt. In the House of 
Representatives March 10, 1785 Read and committed to the Committee appointed on 
the Letter of the 12th ulto. from the Delegates of this Commonwealth at Congress Sent 
up for concurrence Sam A Otis Spkr. In Senate March 10th 1785, Read and Concurred 
S Adams Presidt."). 

[48] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., XLIX. 
432; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 414 (extract). 

2 See no. 33, note 6, ante, and nos. 63, 72, 95, 101, post. 

3 Motions for the purpose by Monroe and Robert R. Livingston were referred to 
a committee Feb. 1. The report is in the Journals, Feb^ 21. See further ibid., Apr. 1, 7, 
12; also nos. 99, 101, post. A broadside of the report of Feb. 21 is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., 
William Henry Papers, f. 239. 

4 The report was brought in Feb. 16. See no. 19, note 4, ante, and no. 101, note 4, 
post. 

10 



44 Continental Congress 

whether it will not be better policy to form our Treaties on Terms of 
Reciprocity with each Nation rather than on the principles it has adopted 
with the most favored Nations? if We provide in our Treaty with each 
Nation, that whatever may be the Average of its Duties on Imports and 
Exports, we will lay similar Duties, they may impose what Duties they 
please, and we shall have power without Embarrassment, to reciprocate 
this commercial Tax and thus avoid being what We otherwise inevitably 
must be, their Tributary — for if on the other Hand, We are to be on the 
same Footing as the most favoured Nation, and this on an average pays 
15 per Ct. on Imports and Exports, whilst the most favoured Nation on 
our part pays but 5 per Ct., is it not evident that this Rule would operate 
to tax us ten per Ct. as a Nation, on Imports and Exports from such a 
Treaty? this favoured Nation System appears to me a System of Cob- 
webbs to catch Flies, attend to it as it respects Restrictions, prohibitions, 
and the carrying Trade, and it is equally distant from a Rule of 
Reciprocity, which is the only equitable and beneficial Rule for forming 
Commercial Treaties. 

Mr. Adams is appointed to the Court of London, and a Report for 
accepting Doctor Franklin's Resignation is before Congress, who will 
probably pass it, and appoint yourself to the Court of Versailles. 8 .... 

49. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

New York 26th February 1785. 
Sir, 

Attempts having been made in the settlement of accounts to defraud 
the public by means of Certificates and some of them being discovered, 
The United States in Congress Assembled have passed the resolutions 
which I have the honor to enclose. 

That these resolutions may have the desired effect, permit me to request 
that you would be pleased to give orders for having them printed without 
delay in the News-papers of your State. 2 

50. James Wilson to the President of Pennsylvania 

(John Dickinson). 1 

New York, Feby. 26th, 1785. 
Sir, 

The Controversy respecting the settlements at Wyoming depends before 
Congress in a very disadvantageous state of suspence. 2 I think that both 

8 Adams was elected Feb. 24, Franklin was relieved Mar. 7, and Jefferson was 
elected Mar. 10. See nos. 41, 44, ante, 65, 70, 72, 73, 101, post. 

[49] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, VI. 101 (endorsed: "26th February 1785. Charles 
Thomson Esq Secy. Congress. With Resolve of Congress respecting the Counterfeiting 
Cert's to defraud the public in the Settlement of Accts.") ; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 417; 
N. C. State Recs., XVII. 604; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 56. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 23, and no. 32, note 3, ante. The resolutions accompany 
this letter in N. C. State Recs. (p. 605). Cf. no. 57, post. 
[So] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 453. 

2 See nos. 6, IX, 17, 21, 32, 45, ante, and no. 68, post. A group of documents 
pertaining to the Wyoming affair is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 431-459. 



February, 1785 45 

the Interest and the Honor of Pennsylvania require, that a speedy and 
explicit decision should be had upon the complaints and representations 
which have been made against her. As far as I can learn those who 
style themselves Claimants under the state of Connecticut have not ap- 
pointed or instructed any person to advocate or support their pretensions ; 
and no attempts have been lately made to bring them forward. While 
matters continue in this undetermined situation, those people may flatter 
themselves and represent to others, that the complaints laid before Congress 
stand uncontradicted, and that there may still be a favorable adjudication 
upon them. It is easy to forsee what a pernicious effect such sentiments 
will have upon the settlements in that part of the country. For these 
Reasons, I beg leave to express my opinion that no time should be lost 
by the state in instructing its Delegates to press Congress for a decision 
on the complaints and the memorial now before them. 3 .... 



51. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York Feby. 27th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I am now to thank you for the letter that you did me the honor to 
write to me on the 8th of this month, and which I received on the 17th 
with the enclosures. 2 

Sir James Jay had mentioned the plan of Lady Huntingdon to me, 
previous to the receipt of your letter, and at the same time that your packet 
reached me, there came one to Congress from Governor Henry with her 
Ladyships letter and plan enclosed, which the Governor strongly recom- 
mended. It was presently observed that the terms upon which lands had 
been ceded to the United States did not leave it in the power of Congress 
to dispose of them for any purpose but for paying the debts of the public 
by a full and fair sale of all the ceded lands. It was indeed remarked, that 
those religious people whom her Ladyship had in prospect to transplant 
and fix on our frontier were remarkable in the late war for an unanimous 
and bitter enmity to the American cause, and as such might form a dan- 
gerous settlement at so great a distance, contiguous to the Indians, and 
easily accessible to Canada, Especially in the present very unfriendly 
temper of mind that we now suppose the British nation possesses with 
respect to us. It was therefore ordered that Governor Henry's letter with 

3 Wilson relates a conference he had had with Governor Clinton on the subject 
and makes some further suggestions. 

[51] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 66, vol. II., p. 72 (copy) ; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 338. 

2 See no. 39, ante. Washington's letter of Feb. 8 is in Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, 

II. 262, and in Writings (ed. Ford), X. 437, (ed. Sparks), IX. 91. See also his letter 
to Sir James Jay Jan. 25 (ibid., p. 86), that to Lady Huntingdon Feb. 27 (ibid., p. 06), 
and Sparks's note on Lady Huntingdon's project (ibid., p. 92 a.). The letter of Governor 
Henry to which Lee refers, with its enclosures, was laid before Congress Feb. 17. The 
letter of Sir James Jay to Governor Henry Dec. 20, 1784, that of Lady Huntingdon to 
him Apr. 8, 1784, together with the " Outlines " of her plan, are in Henry, Patrick Henry, 

III. 248-261. See also Governor Henry to the speaker of the House of Delegates Oct. 17, 
ibid., p. 327. 



46 Continental Congress 

the enclosures should be filed, but nothing more done in the affair 

Very little has yet been done in Congress respecting the Western Country, 
but a very full discussion of that business will soon come on, when it is 
to be expected that our affairs in that quarter will be put under better 
regulations than hitherto they have been. The mischiefs that experience 
and reason both join in proving to flow from the Sessions of Congress 
being held in our large Citys, produced the necessity of determining 
on some place of easy retirement for the federal government, and the 
unhappy neglect of attendance on the part of the Southern States has 
furnished an opportunity for a Majority in Congress to fix on a spot 
too excentric. My wishes would have been to have gone further south, 
but of two evils it was best to choose the least, and therefore we thought 
it better to fix somewhere in retirement than to continue wandering, or 
to fix in the midst of dissipation. 8 We had but just determined upon 
sending a Minister to the Court of London (Mr. John Adams) when this 
day 28th Feby., we received a letter from our Commissioners for making 
treaties etc. at Paris, the copy of a letter from the Duke of Dorset, Minister 
from London to Versailles, to our Ministers, in answer to a proposition 
from them for making a treaty of Commerce with G. Britain and for 
settling other points of difficulty arising from the late peace — In which his 
Grace declares the determination of his Court to be ready to settle all these 
affairs upon terms of equal and lasting good to both countries whensoever 
the U. States shall send to their Court a Minister properly authorised for 
the business. 4 .... 

52. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New 
Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 

New York Feby 27th, 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the honor to inform your Excellency that on the 23d [ ?] 
instant the honorable Arthur Lay [Lee] Esqr. arrived in this city and 
presented to Congress several medals given by the King of Great Britain 
to the Indians in the middle district which they had delivered to the com- 
missioners for settling a treaty with them. 2 In the treaties which have 
been completed with the Indians about thirty millions of acres of land 
have been obtained which in our opinion is a quantity sufficient to form 
one new state and half of another. These lands we hope will very soon be 
put in such a train as to be the means in some measure of releiving tin- 
public credit. Congress in pursuance of their resolution to erect buildings 
for their accommodations have proceeded to elect commissioners for that 
purpose, and accordingly made choice of the honorabl[e] Robert Morris 
Esqr of Pennsylvania, General Dickerson of New Jer[s]ey, and General 

» See nos. 33-38. ante, 52, 53, 95, 101, post. 

♦See Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, L 515-517. 534, 54*. 543: cf. no. 65, post. 
[5a] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., New Hampshire Records, Council Cor- 
respondence, 1782-1788 (signed by Foster and Long). 

2 The Journals do not record the delivery of these medals ; but see the Journals, 
June 1 (p. 411). 13. 1785. and Apr. 28. 1786. 



February, 1785 47 

Schuyler of this State for to carry this business into effect the gentle- 
men first mentioned have accepted their appointment, from the other no 
answer has been received. We have thought it our duty to obstruct this 
measure as much as was in our power from the pursuasion that the State 
we have the honor to represent is not under its present embarrassments 
able to advance cash for the purpose, we wished at least to have gained 
time to have consulted our constituents on the subject, but although we 
had the support of some other States in our opposition yet it was carried 
against us. The buildings however are as yet on paper only and probably 
will not soon become more substantial unless the commissioners can con- 
trive means to erect them without calling on the respective states for the 
money for that purpose — perhaps it may be effected by making a purchase 
of so much land over what may be wanted by the United States as when 
sold will complete the business. 3 

Yesterday Congress went into the election of a minister to the court of 
London when the Hon'ble John Adams Esqr. was made choice of by nine 
states — instructions will be forwarded with his commission relative to 
the western parts and other matters interesting to the states. It is our wish 
not to multiply ministers in Europe and it will be our endeavour that the 
removal of Mr. Adams from the United Netherlands shall be supplied 
[by] a charges des affairs to reside in Holland. We conceive the expected 
arrival of Mr Guardoque from Spain in that character will render abortive 
any motion to appoint a resident minister at the court of Madrid. 4 

We have further to inform your Excellency that such measures have 
been adopted by congress as we hope will prove effectual to obtain treaties 
with the Regencies 5 of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli. 

A committee consisting of a member from each State have under con- 
sideration an estimate and requisition — as also the subject of coin and a 
mint but have as yet made no report thereon. 6 

Congress have resolved that the appointment of ministers to foreign 
courts shall be for three years only unless rechosen and subject to be 
recalled at any time. 7 

We must beg the favour of your Excellency to lay before the honorable 
Council our necessity for a further advance of cash. 

53. Samuel Holten to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(John Hancock). 1 

New York, 28th February, 1785. 
Sir, 

Since I had the honor of addressing your Excellency, Congress have 
proceeded to the choice of a minister to the court of London, and after 

3 See nos. 33-38, 51, ante, 53, 95, 101, post. 

4 The election of Adams is recorded under Feb. 24. Accordingly this letter may 
bear an erroneous date. Cf. nos. 41, 44, 45, ante. 

5 In the Force Trans, this word is " Reginers ". 

6 See nos. 29, 33, ante, 75, 87, 109, 113, post. 

7 See the Journals, Feb. 7 (p. 45 n.), 17, 18. 
[53] x Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 265. 



48 Continental Congress 

considerable time being spent, debating upon the propriety of the measure, 
and who should be the person, it determined in favor of the honorable 
John Adams, being elected by nine states out of eleven that were present. 2 
Two of the commissioners appointed by congress to superintend the 
building of their foederal town have accepted (vis.) Messrs. Morris and 
Dickinson. Genl. Schuyler's answer has not yet come to hand; so that 
if congress had money enough, I should expect to hear of a number of 
elegant buildings being erected in a short time. 8 



54. John Sitgreaves to John Gray Blount and Thomas Blount. 1 

New York 28th Feby. 1785. 
Gentlemen, 

My last to you was written early in January just before my Departure 

from Phila. for this place I have at last received some Letters 

by that conveyance 2 from my Friends in Carolina that were the immoder- 
ate time of 40 days on the road, from this Circumstance I doubt whether 
all the Letters I have written you are yet come to hand. I hope this Evil 
will soon be remedied. Congress disapprove of the Conduct of the officers 
who have the superintendance of this department and will very soon take 
Measures for their better Regulation. 8 Not long since I was favor'd with 
a Letter from your Brother Mr. Wm. Blount stating the propriety of my 
return home in March (if possible) with reasons that were sufficiently 
powerful to induce me to adopt his advice this impels me to address you 
on the subject of money, the want of which might prevent my return when 
nothing else wou'd, having found it impracticable to leave this so early as 
to enable me to be at home by March term. I have concluded so to regu- 
late my Measures as to return time enough for the ensuing term of our 
Court which will be the second Monday in May. nothing shall prevent 
me from this step but the want of money and I am sure a disappointment 
in that article must be owing to the Treasury if it happens to me at 
all. 4 .... 

I have no late news to write you, a french Packet arrived yesterday if 
she brings any news it has not yet transpired. the public Dispatches by 
this Mail give us no accounts of the Emperor and the Dutch. I think 
there is great probability Matters will be made up between them this 
winter. 8 Congress a few days since appointed John Adams the late Minister 
at the Hague, Minister to the Court of London, they have also appointed 
Genl. Schuyler, Robt. Morris and Phil. Dickinson of the Jersies Commis- 
sioner! for carrying into Execution the Ordinance for building a foederal 
Town etc. 8 .... 

2 Cf. nos. 41, 44, 45. ante. 

• See nos. 33-38, 51, 52, ante. 95. 101, 160. post. 
[54] l N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 That is, by the post. 

a See the Journals, Jan. 13, 18, Feb. 28, Mar. 14. 

4 Cf. no. 69, post. 

8 See no. 51, ante. 

• See no. 52, ante. 



March, 1785 49 

55. The Secretary of Congress to Sundry Printers. 1 
Circular March 1st, 1785. 

Sir, 

The United States in Congress Assembled having been pleased to repeal 
the instructions given to me on the 2d December 1784 respecting News- 
papers, it becomes my Duty to inform you thereof, and to desire you not 
to send forward any more papers after the receipt of this, until you may 
receive farther orders. You will please to send in your Account for the 
papers furnished that steps may be taken for the payment thereof. 2 

[Appended to the copy is the following memorandum :] 
Sent to Messrs. Hall and Sellers, Dunlap and Claypole, Thomas Bradford, 
Francis Bailey, Eleazer Oswald, Isaac Collins, J McLean, Holt, S 
Loudon, Shepard Kollock. 

56. The Secretary of Congress to the Delegates of 

Twelve States. 1 
Circular March 1st 1785. 

Gentlemen, 

The United States in Congress assembled having been pleased to direct 
me " to take order that they may be supplied with three copies of Such News 
Paper from each State as may be published by the printer for the State 
or by such other printer as the Delegates from the State may recommend, to 
be filed in the office of the Secretary and in the Committee rooms in such 
manner that they may be preserved and ready for Occasional inspection ", 
I have to request the favour of you to give me the Name of the printer for 
your State, or such other printer as you will be pleased to recommend, 
that I may proceed to carry the above order into Execution. 2 

[55] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 59. 

2 The order of Dec. 2 is in the Journals. In the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 46, 
beneath a copy of this order, is the following draft of a letter to printers : 

" December 2, 1784. The delegates in Congress having a desire to be furnished with 
your [blank for name of paper] I have to request you to send forward regularly forty 
copies under cover directed to The United States in Congress Assembled." Appended 
to this letter is the following memorandum of addresses : 

" Hall and Sellers— fill the blank w'th - Gazzett 

Dunlap and Claypoole Pennsylvania Packet 

Thomas Bradford Pennsylvania Journal 

Francis Bailey Freeman's Journal 

Eleazer Oswald Independent Gazeteer 

Isaac Collins New Jersey" 

Mr. McClean of New Y 

Mr. Holt do fYour news paper 

Mr. Sam'l Loudon do 

Mr. Shepard Kollock 

On Jan. 17 motions by Howell and Williamson relative to newspapers were referred 
to a committee who reported, Feb. 28, some resolutions, including the repeal of the order 
of Dec. 2. See further nos. 56, 59, 60, post. 

[56] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., Misc. MSS. (to the Delegates of 
Connecticut) ; ibid., Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 58. 

2 See no. 55, ante. This letter was addressed to the delegates of each of the 
states except New York. See no. 59, post. A letter was addressed to the delegates 



50 Continental Congress 

57. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Alexander Martin). 1 

New York March 1st, 1785. 
Sir, 

Congress since their meeting in this city have chosen three Commis- 
sioners of the Treasury in lieu of those Gentlemen who were appointed 
at Annapolis last Year, who have declined accepting that appointment : 
the Gentlemen now chosen are Mr. John L. Gervis, of South Carolina, 
Mr. Samuel Osgood, of Massachusetts, and Mr. Walter Livingston of 
this State. 2 

General Schuyler, Mr. Robert Morris and General P. Dickenson are 
appointed Commissioners to carry into effect, the ordinance of the 23d 
December last respecting the foederal Town, this ordinance was trans- 
mitted to your Excellency by the Secretary of Congress. 3 

We have received accounts of a Vessel belonging to Alexandria in 
Virginia, being captured by one of the Barbary Corsairs and carried into 
Algiers. By the last accounts the Vessel was not condemned, and as she 
was only in ballast bound from Cadiz to Madeira, perhaps they may give 
.her up. The depredations of those pirates unless speedily put an end to 
by making a treaty with them, may prove very injurious to the Commerce 
of the United States; Congress have taken such steps as they think will 
accomplish this desireable end. 4 

The British Court having taken no steps to comply with that article 
of the treaty which respects the delivery of the posts on our Western 
frontiers, but on the contrary it is said, that they have reinforced the 
Garrisons, and are repairing the fortifications: And every account from 
Europe convincing us of the unfavorable disposition of that Court to- 
wards us, it was thought necessary to send a Minister to that Court, to 
insist on the delivery of the Western Posts, and a compensation for the 
negroes that were carried away in open Violation of the Definitive treaty 
of Peace, and to prevent matters from getting to that pass, which might 
again involve us in a War with that nation. Mr. John Adams is the person 
elected for this purpose. 

from New York in similar terms but referring to the resolution of Congress which 
directed him " to take order ' that they be supplied every day on which a News paper is 
published in the place of their residence with a copy for each member and three copies to 
be filed of such paper as may be recommended by the Delegates from the State ' ', and 
requesting them to give him the titles of the several newspapers which they would 
recommend. See no. 60, post. 

[57]' N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy); N. C. State Recs.. XVII. 
600. The letter was signed by Spaight and Sitgreaves. 

2 The commissioners elected June 3, 1784, were Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, 
Oliver Ellsworth, and William Denning. All three declined, and an attempt to elect 
successors (Dec. 22, 1784) was unsuccessful. The election of Gervais, Osgood, and 
Livingston took place Jan. 25, 1785. Gervais presently declined, and Arthur Lee was 
chosen in his stead. See the Journals, Mar. 7, Apr. 1, 5, July 27, Aug. I ; cf. nos. 18, 20, 
28, ante, 61, 66, 68, 101, post. 

* See no. 53, note 3, ante. 

* See the Journals. Feb. 9, Mar. 4, 11, 14 (pp. 54 n., 140-148, 154, respectively) ; 
cf. nos. 68, 117, post. 

6 Cf. nos. 41, 44, 45, ante, and no. 65, post. 



March, 1785 51 

Congress have directed that the Comptroller shall, until the board of 
treasury are organised, appoint Commissioners to settle the accounts of 
the states against the United States. As soon as the Delegates find a 
proper person for that purpose, they will have one appointed for the state 
of North Carolina. 6 

Our Commissioners have concluded a Second treaty with the Indians 
at fort Mcintosh, but as Congress have not as yet either ratified the 
present or former treaty with the Indians, we don't look upon ourselves 
at liberty to transmit copies of them to Your Excellency. 7 

We make no doubt but Your Excellency have taken proper steps to 
have us relieved at the expiration of our tour of duty, by ordering on the 
other Delegates so that they may be here by the first of May, at which 
time the six months we are to stay pursuant to the Resolve the general 
assembly passed in May 1784, expires, but lest Your Excellency may 
have omitted to take these steps, we must request You to order on the 
other Delegates to relieve us at that time ; as our private business demands 
our attention at home, and we must whether relieved or not, leave Congress 
the beginning of May, in which case, if the other Delegates don't come 
forward, the State will not be represented. 



58. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs. 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress, March 2, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have reed, your favour of the 1st, 2 and in answer thereto, beg leave 
to observe that by the 26 article of the treaty with Sweden and the 29 
Article of the treaty with France " the two contracting parties grant 
mutually the liberty of having each in the ports of the other Consuls, 
Vice Consuls, agents, and Commissaries, whose functions shall be regu- 
lated by a particular agreement ". No agreement has yet been entered into 
for this purpose with either of those Courts. But it has always been 
thought necessary for foreign Consuls to make known their appointments 
to Congress, who thereupon order the commissions to be registered and 
an act of recognition to be sent to the States, who are called upon to furnish 
the said Consuls respectively with an exequatur or notification of their 

6 See the Journals, Feb. 23 ; cf. nos. 32, 49, ante. 

7 See no. 39, note 3, ante, and nos. 78-82, post. 

[58] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 259; Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, III. 797- 

2 See no. 37, ante. Jay's letter of Mar. 1 is in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 
797. His inquiry arose from a letter to him from Sears and Smith, dated New York, 
Feb. 23, transmitting a representation of Richard Soderstrom's conduct with that firm 
{ibid., pp. 795, 796). Jay's report to Congress Mar. 2 (ibid., p. 798) was referred to a 
committee Mar. 4. On Apr. 5 a letter from Soderstrom, Mar. 21, was referred to the 
secretary for foreign affairs, who made a report May 13 (see the Journals, p. 361 n.). 
Congress took action May 25, on a motion of Rufus King, and on the 26th the committee 
of Mar. 4 was discharged. See no. 97, post. 

The action of May 25 was presumed to hav« closed the affair, but it was again stirred 
in Congress Sept. 12 by a letter from Soderstrom (Sept. 8), requesting copies of the 



52 Continental Congress 

quality. (See 7 Septr. 1781.) 3 Till this is done it has not been usual for 
any state to acknowledge any Consul from a foreign power. On the 3d of 
Deer, last Mr. Charles Hellstedt produced a Commission from his Swedish 
Majesty dated the 22d Septr. 1783 appointing him Consul. This Com- 
mission is registered and acts of recognition have been sent to the States. 
But I do not find that Mr. Richard Soderstrom is known to Congress as 
consul of Sweden for any of the States in the Union. 



59. The Secretary of Congress to Sundry Printers. 1 

Secretary's Office 3 March 1785. 
Sir, 

The United States in Congress Assembled having directed me to take 
Order that they be supplied with three Copies of such News-Paper from 
each State as may be published by the Printer for the State or by such 
other Printer as the Delegates from the State may recommend ; and the 
Delegates for having recommended the , I have to 

request the favour of you to send forward three Copies of your said 
News Paper in a regular series under cover directed to the Secretary of 
Congress. 

[Appended to the Letter-Book copy is the following memorandum :] 
The Delegates from 12 States having recommended as follows 
date of letters sent and to whom 2 

Mr. Daniel Fowle M'ch 3d for New Hampshire 

" The New Hampshire 
Gazette " 
Messrs. Adams and Nourse M'ch 3d Massachusetts 
Mr. Henry Barber do. 3d Rhode Island 

"The Newport Mercury" 
Messrs. Hudson and Goodwin do. 3d Connecticut 

[erased; following substituted: 8 April Meigs, Bowen and 

Dana, Pr. in New Haven] 

papers in the case, particularly the representation of Sears and Smith. This letter appears 
to have been referred to the secretary of Congress, who reported Sept. 13, and this 
report was in turn referred to the secretary for foreign affairs (Oct. 3, Journals, p. 796 n. ; 
cf. ibid., p. 807 n.). Jay's report, Oct. 6, is in the Journals, Oct. 7, and also in Dipl. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 805. In the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 152, is a note 
(in the writing of Roger Alden) requesting the secretary for foreign affairs to send up 
the letter of Sears and Smith. The note is dated Sept. 3, but it follows a letter dated 
Sept. 23, and probably it should bear the date Sept. 13, the date of Thomson's report 

8 The act of Sept. 7, 1781, was an order that the commission of Philip Joseph de 
l'Etombe be registered, and in addition prescribed the form of recognition. 
[59] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 65. 

1 The letter and most of the entries are in the writing of a clerk, but this heading, 
as also the Connecticut substitution and the North Carolina and South Carolina addresses, 
is in the writing of Thomson. 



March, 1785 53 

Mr. Isaac Collins do. 3d New Jersey 

" New Jersey Gazette " 

Messrs. Dunlap and Claypoole do. 31st Pennsylvania 

Mr. Jacob A. Killen July 12th Delaware 

" Delaware Gazette " 

Mr. Wm. Goddard do. [Mar.] 31st 3 Maryland 

Virginia 

Mr. Thos. Davis M'ch 3d North Carolina 

"North Carolina Gazette" 

Mr. Miller M'ch 8th South Carolina 

James Johnson do. 8th Georgia 

The blanks above were filled accordingly. 4 

8 The date of the Delaware response was doubtless inserted subsequently to that 
of Maryland. See note 4, below. 

* That is, the blanks in the letter, the first being for the name of the state, the 
second for that of the newspaper. Several of the blanks in this addendum for the names 
of papers were not filled in. 

The requests made by most of the state delegations are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 59, 
vol. I., ff. 173-215. The New Hampshire delegates, Mar. 2, recommended the New Hamp- 
shire Gazette, " printed by Daniel Fowle, residing in Portsmouth ". Cooke of Connecticut 
wrote to Thomson Mar. 2 that, as he was the only delegate in attendance, an answer 
could not then be given, but recommended " the Newspaper of Messrs. Hudson and 
Goodwin, Printers in Hartford ". On Apr. 7 however a joint letter of Cooke and 
Johnson recommended the Nezv Haven Gazette, " published by Messrs. Meigs, Bowen 
and Dana, printers in New Haven ", adding, " the mention of any other News Papers 
by either of us heretofore made notwithstanding ". Charles Stewart of New Jersey, 
" in behalf of the Delegates ", wrote Mar. 3 : " The delegates for New Jersey choose 
the Newspaper published by Isaac Collins of Trenton in preference to any other pub- 
lished in New Jersey." The North Carolina delegates wrote Mar. 3 : " Mr. Thomas 
Davis of New Bern, printer of the North-Carolina Gazette, is the only printer at present 
who publishes a Newspaper If any more useful paper should hereafter be pub- 
lished in that state, you will doubtless be informed of the same by the Delegates." 
Houstoun of Georgia wrote Mar. 3, recommending " the Paper printed by James Johnston 
in the Town of Savannah". The letter of the Massachusetts delegation, dated Mar. 7 
(not Mar. 3, as indicated in Thomson's list; several of the recorded dates probably in- 
dicate when the responses were received), says: "Messieurs Adams and Nourse of 
Boston print for the general court of Massachusetts ; their weekly Gazette will probably 
contain as great information as any news paper printed in that state." The Rhode Island 
delegation likewise wrote Mar. 7 (not Mar. 3), that, as there was no state printer in 
Rhode Island, they proposed the Nezvport Mercury, published in Newport by Henry 
Barber. The South Carolina delegates (Read, Bull, and Pinckney) wrote Mar. 7 (not 
Mar. 8), recommending "Mr. Miller printer to the State of South Carolina"; but on 
Apr. 14 Pinckney and Bull wrote to Thomson: "Mrs. Timothy having been lately 
appointed Printer to the State the delegates of South Carolina think it their duty to 
request that the papers from that state be in future furnished from her for the use 
of Congress." See no. 113, post. The Maryland delegation wrote Mar. 30 (not Mar. 31), 
"must beg you to direct Mr. Goddard of Baltimore Town to furnish Congress with 
three Copies of his News-Paper ". For the Pennsylvania delegation Joseph Gardner 
wrote Mar. 31, "The delegates of Pennsylvania have agreed to recommend Messrs. 
Dunlap and Claypoole of the city of Philadelphia to supply Congress with Newspapers 
from that state . On July 8 Vining of Delaware wrote Thomson that, since the date of 
his letter (Mar. 1), "we have procured a publick Printer who will always be ready to 
receive your commands. Your Directions therefore to Mr. Jacob A. Killen in Wilmington 
will be obeyed." No instructions from the Virginia delegation have been found. With 
regard to New York see no. 55, ante, and no. 60, post. 



54 Continental Congress 

60. The Secretary of Congress to Sundry Printers in New York. 1 

New York March 3d, 1785. 
Sir, 

The United States in Congress Assembled having directed me to take 
order that they be supplied every day on which a News Paper is published 
in the place of their residence with a Copy for each Member and three 
Copies to be filed, of such Paper as may be recommended by the Delegates 
from the State; and the Delegates for this State having recommended 
Loudon's New York Packet, Shepard Kollock's New York Gazette and 
the Independent Journal by Mr. J. McLane and Co. I have to request you 
to furnish Congress with forty Copies of your paper every day the same 
is published. 2 

[Addresses noted in an appended memorandum are :] Mr. Samuel 
Loudon, Mr. Shepard Kollock, Mr. J. McLean and Co. 

61. Walter Livingston to John Taylor. 1 

New York March 3d, 1785. 
Sir, 

Your favor of the 17th Ulto. was delivered to me by Mr. Bonthillien 
from Montreal and I am sorry it was not in my power to render services 
to a gentleman recommended by you. 

Not one of the gentlemen appointed Commissioners of the Treasury 
have as yet accepted the trust, neither have Congress any assurances that 
they will, the distance of their residence from this place, has been the 
cause of our not hearing from them. 2 Mr. Bonthiellien is going to Phila- 
delphia. I have advised him to apply to the Auditors Office and on his 
return to call on me again which he has promised to do. 
With esteem I remain 

Your Hume Ser't, 
Walter Livingston. 

62. The Secretary of Congress to Robert Morris. 1 

New York March 4th 1785. 
Sir, 

The legislature of Virginia having informed their Delegates that a 
farther examination into the Accounts of that State and of the inhabi- 
tants thereof, is prevented by the Resignation of Mr. Turner the late 

[60] library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 64. 

2 See nos. 55, 59, ante. The New York delegates had written Mar. 3 to recom- 
mend Loudon's New York Packet, Shepard Kollock's New York Gazette, and McLean and 
Company's Independent Journal, " which include every day in the week except Sunday " 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 59, vol. I., f. 189). 

[61] 1 From the collection of Mr. Fred M. Steele of Chicago, obtained through the 
courtesy of Professor M. W. Jernegan of the University of Chicago. The letter is ad- 
dressed, " John Taylor Esqr. Albany Free Walter Livingston ". 
2 See no. 57, note 2, ante. 

[62] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 66 (in the writing of a clerk 
and addressed, " R. Morris Esqr. late Superintendant of Finance"). 



March, 1785 55 

Continental Commissioner and that Mr. Andrew Dunscomb who has been 
appointed to succeed him cannot enter into the execution of his office 
until he shall have secured from the Superintendant of finance, or board 
of treasury his commission and instructions; and they have instructed 
them to urge the qualification of the New Commissioners to enter upon 
and prosecute that Business. This being communicated to Congress they 
have directed me to apply to you for information, first respecting the 
appointment of the said Andrew Dunscomb, to succeed Mr. Turner, and 
secondly respecting his character and to what State he belongs. Your 
answer as speedily as possible will oblige me, 2 

63. Elbridge Gerry to Timothy Pickering. 1 

My dear Sir, 

I have but a moment to answer your letter of the 1st, 2 having many 
affairs to attend to before my Return to Boston, which will probably be 
to Morrow or the next Day. your Letter I have communicated to Mr. 
King, and inclose a Report respecting the Land Office in form of an 
ordnance, which has had its first Reading this Day and is to have a second 
on Wednesday next. 3 I wish you would attend to it, and enclose to Mr. 
King such amendments as you suppose necessary to remedy the Evils 
complained of. 4 .... 

New York, 4th March, 1785. 

64. Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, March 6th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... My time and thoughts are so entirely engrossed with the duties 
and business of my office that I have no leisure to prosecute those philo- 

2 The Virginia instructions (Dec. 30, 31) were referred to a committee Feb. 15 
{Journals, p. 70 n.), a report was made Feb. 23, and (with amendments) was adopted 
Mar. 10. Morris replied to Thomson Mar. 7, transmitting copies of Turner's resignation 
(Oct. 9, 1784), Dunscomb's application (Oct. 15), and his own letter to the governor 
of Virginia, Oct. 18, appointing Dunscomb to the office. He further stated that Dunscomb 
was of the state of New York, that he was highly recommended by John Pierce and 
Timothy Pickering, with both of whom he had served, and that Dunscomb was possessed 
of a certified copy of Virginia's act of approval and of the instructions issued to his 
predecessor (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 137, Appendix, ff. 845-857). Cf. no. 92, post. 
[63] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVIII. 225. 

2 Pickering's letter of Mar. 1 is in Octavius Pickering, Life of Timothy Pickering, 
I. 504, and in Life of Rufus King, I. 72. 

3 See nos. 33, 48, ante, 72. 95, 101 (note 11), post. 

4 Gerry wrote to John Adams Mar. 5, discussing affairs in Congress at some 
length. A copy of the letter, with numerous others to Adams, was at one time in 
possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York; the whereabouts of those copies can not 
now be ascertained. Arrived in Boston, Gerry wrote Mar. 14 to Samuel Adams and 
Samuel Alleyne Otis, president of the senate and speaker of the house of representatives, 
respectively, offering to make a verbal report of the proceedings of Congress (Mass. 
Arch., Senate Files, no. 263). In a letter to King Mar. 28 (Life of King, I. 75) he gives 
an account of his report. See also Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 473 n. 

[64] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; ibid., Thomson Papers, II. (draft); 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 198 (with verbal variations). 



56 Continental Congress 

sophical researches I once was fond of. And from what I can see Congress 
seem disposed rather to increase than diminish those duties. 2 

I am made very happy by Mr. Jay's acceptance of the office for the de- 
partment of foreign Affairs. By him you will be supplied with the journals 
of Congress and regularly informed of their proceedings as well as of the 
state of our affairs in general, so that I need not trouble you on that 
head 



65. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

N. York, March 6, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

The arrangment in our foreign affairs begins at length to assume some 
form, upon whatever ground they were taken up for a considerable time, 
either with respect to France, Sp'n or G. B. the same difficulties arose. If 
it was mov'd that [Franklin] 2 be permitted agreeable to his request to 
return home it was firmly oppos'd by [Rhode Island] and [Massachu- 
setts] ; if that a minister be appointed to [Great Britain] it was mov'd 
that those instructed to form commerc'l treaties be instructed etc. it was 
argued on the other hand that our affairs with these courts stood on their 
own ground respectively and that negotiations with each seperately and 
at their respective capitals wo'd be more eligible and likely to produce 
success. It was at length mov'd by [Mr. Howell] that a [minister] be 
appointed to represent the [U. States] at the [court] of [Great Britain] 
and carried. Adams, R. R. Livingston and Rutledge were put in nomi- 
nation. It had been previously, with the ill-founded expectation of facili- 
tating this measure, mov'd, by Mr. Pinckney " that the com'ns to foreign 
ministers unless renew'd by Congress sho'd continue in force only for 
three years ". this was negativ'd, but being ag'n renew'd by the mover 
and press'd upon Congress from other quarters was at length carried, 
upon several ballots Adams had 5 votes, Livingston 4, and Rutledge 2, 
Jersey at length voted for Adams, having previously nominated and 
voted for Livingston, upon wh. Virga. and Maryl'd join'd in favr. of 
Adams and gave him his appointm't." Mr. Smith lately an aid to the 
general hath been since appointed secry. to the legation. A Mr. Trumbull 
of Connecticut was his only competitor. 4 Had this affr. come upon the 
first meeting of Congress at Trenton the event must have been the same. 
5 states, the 4 Eastern and Pena. were decidedly in favr. of Adams in 
preference to any other person, Jersey was at first dispos'd to commit 
our forfeign] business to Adams and Jefferson only, and wo'd therefore 
have voted Adams to the above [court] . He wo'd of course [have] had the 
majority in Congress and the expedience of the measure wo'd have super- 

2 See no. 66, note 5, post. 
[6s] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers ; Writings of Monroe, I. 63. 

2 Bracketed words in this letter are written in cipher. See no. 28, ante . One 
exception is the word " have ", near the close of this passage, which is supplied. 

• Sec nos. 28, 33, 41. 44. 45. 52, ante, 66. 70, 72, 73. 101, post. 

* Presumably Jonathan Trumbull, jr. The Journals contain no record of the 
nomination. See nos. 70, 101, post. 



March, 1785 57 

seded any difficulties with respect to the man. I suppose [Jefferson] will 
shortly be appointed in the room of [Franklin] to the [court] of [France]. 
Carmichael writes that some person in the character of charge des affrs. 
will shortly be sent from Sp'n instructed etc. so that the affrs. with Sp'n 
will sleep till we hear further on the subject. 5 .... 

The States of Mass : and N. York having graciously agreed upon the 
members to constitute the court enter'd also into a stipulation that the 
place of session sho'd be determin'd by a majority of the States present 
in Congress. When brought before Congress, the delegation of Mass: 
propos'd W'msburg and that of N. Y'k Wilmington, the former had 5 
votes and the latter 4. of course the decision agreeably to the covenant 
enter'd into by the two States was in favr. of the former. N. York was 
dissatisfied with the decision. Mass : mov'd that the Presidt. forward the 
letters to the gentn. appointed, upon wh. the displeasure of N. York was 
discover'd. Mr. Williamson mov'd " that the decision of Congress by 5 
States under the agreem't of N. Y. and Mass : under the confederation 
wh. requires 7 in all cases except etc. was void". Whether the States 
of Mass : and N. Y. had independently of Congress the right of fixing 
the place and might chuse any intermediate place, wh. sho'd be obligatory 
on themselves and the union, or whether Congress had the power of 
controul became the question, whenever it came before them a decision 
of the main question was always evaded by those of order, so that it was 
never taken, the two States at length agreed that whatever had been 
committed to the journals sho'd be eras'd wh. was admitted. In this con- 
dition it remains, it is expected they will agree to some more northern 
position. 6 

P. S. Since the appointment of Adams it was generally agreed that 
some person sho'd be sent to the Hague, but no one is yet thought of. 7 

66. David Howell to the Deputy Governor of Rhode Island 

(Jabez Bowen). 1 

New York March 7, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose Copy of a resolution of Congress passed 
16 Ult. on a motion of your delegates relative to Ox teams, etc. made in 
pursuance of instructions from the Assembly. 2 

No. 2 contains copy of a Treaty with the Indians entred into at Fort 
Stanwix Octo. 22, 1784. 

No. 3 contains copy of another Treaty entred into with more west- 
wardly Indians at Fort Mcintosh January 21, 1785. 

It is proposed to hold another Treaty about the first of June next with 
the Potowawtamy, Tweightee, Ouabash and Illinois Indians at Ft. Vin- 

5 See no. 39, note 4, ante, and nos. 72, 73, post. Jefferson was elected minister 
plenipotentiary to the court of Versailles Mar. 10. 

6 See nos. 14-16, 20, 31, 37, ante, 79, 82, post. 

7 See no. 79, post. 

[eepR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 57; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 527. 

2 See no. 33, ante. 



58 Continental Congress 

cents on the Wabash river. This, it is hoped, will finish this business for 
the present. 

Dr. Lee, who was one of our Commissaries, 3 tells me that these two 
Treaties have extinguished the Indian claims to upwards of 20,000,000 
Acres. Tomorrow is assigned for a second reading of the Ordinance for 
opening a Foederal land-office. 

Mr. John Adams is appointed Minister plenipotentiary for the U. States 
at London — and Col. William Smith, of this State, Secretary to the Lega- 
tion. Dr. Franklin has leave to return and Mr. Jefferson is to take his 
place. A Successor to Mr. Adams at the Hague, is to be appointed next 
monday. 

Dr. Johnson, having received news of one of his childrens lying at the 
point of death has left us a few days ago; in consequence of which ten 
States only remain on the floor : But I can with great pleasure assure you 
of the good disposition of the members to do business — And that an 
unusual harmony subsists in Congress at present — how long it will last 
I will not presume to predict, but I greatly fear that Schisms and hard 
words will ensue on some great questions soon to be brought before us. 

Congress have been informed that Mr. Osgood proposes to accept 
a place at the Treasury Board — As soon as he can come forward and join 
Mr. Livingston a Board will be formed. 4 

I have seen an account in a Philadelphia paper that a funding bill, on 
State funds, has passed in Maryland, similar to that proposed in Penn- 
sylvania — and to that adopted long ago in New Jersey and Georgia. 

Congress are not informed of the payments made, or of the measures 
taken to make payments on the last requisition on the States — nor have 
they information what has been done by all the States scarcely on a single 
requisition or recommendation — This has led some to believe that it is 
necessary to extend the office of Secretary of Congress to the home 
department agreeably to the report of a Committee No. 4.° 

It gives me pain to be under the necessity of saying that I am much 
in debt here and entirely out of Cash. I received no money from the 
Treasury before I came away and I cannot learn that any has been paid 
to my orders since — What am I to do? I have had serious thoughts of 
returning home, but I am unwilling to leave this City in debt. Members 
of Congress are, by priviledge, protected from civil Suits — I am there- 
fore in no danger of a Jail, And have concluded to wait the event of 
another application to my old friend the Treasurer — to whom I must 
pray you to write in my behalf and, if possible, to point out to him, 

* He meant commissioners. 

* Osgood's letter acknowledging the appointment was read in Congress Mar. 10 ; 
his formal acceptance was on Apr. 7, Livingston's on Apr. 8. 

5 A committee on revising the " Institution of the Secretary of Congress " was 
appointed Jan. 31 and on Feb. 25 brought in " An Ordinance for the regulation of the 
Office of Secretary of Congress and for extending it to the Home Department ". Some- 
what revised, the ordinance was again taken into consideration Mar. 18 and, with the 
elimination of all references to the "Home Department", was adopted Mar. 31. See 
nos. 91 , 94, 99. post. 



March, 1785 59 

measures to obtain for me a supply of Cash and to pay it to an order I 
have put into the hands of Capt. Lawton. 

Colonel Partridge and Mr. Gerry, who have taken passage in Lawton 
[sic], will pass through Providence and give you more particular infor- 
mation of our proceedings — to them I beg leave to refer you 6 and sub- 
scribe in haste, 

67. George Partridge to Henry Knox. 1 

New York 8th March, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

This Day Congress made choice of you to be their Secretary in the 
War Department, but it is rather doubtful with some of your friends 
whither you will accept on account of the difficiancy of Salary, which now 
Stands at only $2450 Dollars, however I hope you will not decline mearly 
on that Score, for you are sensible that after making a tryal of Six or 12 
months or indeed a long period you will have it in your power to resign, 
if on trial you find the Salary inadequate, and no addition is made, but I 
have no doubt but there will be an addition, it would have been Set higher 
at the first, had not Some Gentlemen Supposed that a person would be 
elected, in or nigh this City, who could afford to Serve for that allowance, 
whither this be a proper kind of oeconomy is not determined. 2 

I wrote a motion which I intended to have made relative to the Subject 
we wear a talking of about the time I left Boston, but on consulting about 

6 If this letter is correctly dated the latter part of it could not have been written 
earlier than the 9th or 10th. Partridge's letter of the 8th (no. 67, post) shows that he 
and Gerry had not then taken their departure; Osgood's letter (see note 4, above) was 
read on the 10th; and King's letter of Mar. 20 (no. 79, post) places the arrival of 
Osgood's letter on the day of Gerry's departure. 

[67] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVII. 178. 

2 Since the retirement of Gen. Benjamin Lincoln in November, 1783, the office 
of secretary at war had remained vacant, although repeated efforts had been made to 
elect a successor. The revision of the department appears to have been initiated by a 
motion of Howell May 26, 1784, respecting the salary of the secretary, etc. At that time 
the election of a secretary was assigned for the following Monday (May 31). On May 29 
a committee to whom Howell's motion had been referred reported some resolves respecting 
the office, and a further study of the subject was among the assignments to the Committee 
of the States. That committee made some effort to perform its task (see the Journals, 
Aug. 3, 9), but its break-up prevented any accomplishment. On Dec. 3 Congress assigned 
the election of a secretary for Dec. 8, but on that day the committee, which had mean- 
while undergone an almost complete change of personnel, reported a draft of an ordinance 
on the subject, whereupon the election of the secretary was postponed until the ordinance 
should have been determined upon. A second reading of the ordinance was set for Dec. 15 
but it did not take place until Jan. 17. The third reading was set for Jan. 19 but was not 
given until Jan. 27, when the ordinance was adopted. Motions were made Feb. 1 and 
Mar. 1 to fix the salary at 2500 or 3000 dollars. On Mar. 4 it was fixed at 2450. 

Jeremiah Wadsworth wrote to Knox Feb. 26 : " It is now in contemplation to appoint 
you Secretary at War. the salary may possibly be 2500 dollars per annum — which is 
certainly too small, but small as it is, it is probable it will be 500 dollars less — and not 
worth your acceptance" (Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVII. 175). A letter from 
Secretary Thomson to Knox (A. L. S.), Mar. 9, notifying him of the appointment and 
of the removal of the office to New York, is ibid., p. 179; a copy of the letter (L. S.) is 
at p. 180. Knox's reply to Thomson, Mar. 17, accepting the appointment, is in Drake, 
Life and Correspondence of Knox, p. 88. An extract of a letter from Knox to Washington 
on the subject is ibid., p. 89; the entire letter is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 96. Washington's reply, June 18, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 108. See nos. 
70, 71, post. 

11 



60 Continental Congress 

the matter with some friends 'twas tho't best to postpone it till we Saw the 
fate of the Election, 'tis probable I may See you at Boston before you 
give an Answer to Congress on your appointment, for I trust you will 
not answer suddenly if you should think of a negative one as it is a place 
important to the Interest and Safety of the U. States. 

I Shall take passage in the first packet with Mr. Gerry for Newport. 

68. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (John Dickinson). 1 

New York March 9th 1785. 
Sir, 

We have been honored with your Excellency's favor of [blank] date in- 
closeingthe Memorial of the Merchants and Traders of the City of Philada. 
expressing their apprehensions of further depredations on their trade by 
the Barbary Corsairs if Speedy and effectual Measures are not taken to 
prevent them, which has been laid before Congress. 

And we are happy to inform you, Sir, and thro' you the Merchants of 
Philada. that Congress have not been inattentive to this Very important 
concern to which we believe they are well disposed to give every relief in 
their power. 

Our Ministers abroad have long since been authorized to negociate 
with the States of Barbary (in common with others) treaties of amity 
and commerce which we have reason to know have only been rendered 
ineffectual heretofore (with the Barbary States) for want of a Sum of 
money which custom has made absolutely necessary to purchase them. 

Congress have lately appropriated for this purpose a sum of money not 
exceeding eighty thousand dollars subject to the draughts of our Ministers. 
A Gentleman well recommended for his integrity and personal knowledge 
of that country will be charged with fresh dispatches to Europe in a short 
time respecting this bussiness who may probably be imployed to carry 
into effect the wishes of congress at the court of the Emperor of Morrocco. 

Altho we ardently wish as much as possible to satisfy the anxiety of 
the Merchants upon this Subject, yet we request that no extracts may be 
taken or published as the Matter is yet Sub judice and any premature 
publication may have a tendency to delay if not prevent the proposed 
negociations and draw the unwary Merchant into a Snare by mistaking 
the intention for the fact. There is little reason to doubt but that Great 
Brittain will use all her influence to prevent any such treaties being made. 
As soon as congress have taken their final determinations upon this Sub- 
ject, we will have the honor of communicating them as far as our 
injunctions of Secrecy will admit. 2 

Mr. Marbois in the name of the King his Master has made a demand 
of Longchamps, this has been under consideration for several days as 
the order of the day and has been postponed, when this great national 

[68] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Gardner and signed 
by him and Henry) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 705. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. II, 14, no. 57, ante, and no. 117, post. 



March, 1785 61 

question may be discussed is uncertain but there appears no disposition 
to hurry. 3 

No moves have been made by the Connecticut Gentlemen upon the 
Wyoming bussiness and we remain in the dark what the wish of the State 
is in that affair. If any determinations of the house take place we will be 
much oblidged by your Excell'ys communication upon that Subject. 4 Genl. 
Knox is appointed Secretary at war. the treasury is not yet formed, no 
official accts. from Jarvais or Osgood whether they will serve or no. 5 



69. John Sitgreaves to William Blount. 1 

New York 9 March 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Scarce any thing new has occurred since my last, except the 
appointment of Mr. Adams our late Minister at the Hague to be Minister 
Plenipotentiary to the Court of London. Colo. Smith late one of Genl. 
Washington's confidential Officers is appointed Secretary to that Lega- 
tion, the Secretary at War is General Knox. A Minister at the Hague in 
the room of Mr. Adams is not yet appointed. 2 Congress have much 
Business before them and I believe will not adjourn before July if they 
can then, as Dr. Williamson Colo. Spaight and myself will all Return 
before the Month of May or in that Month I fear the Govr. will neglect 
to order on the other Delegates and the State will be unrepresented. 3 .... 

Inclosed are the last papers, a Letter on the establishment of a Militia 
by Baron Steuben 4 and an Almanac — 

My Hint with respect to returning immediately need not prevent your 
Brother from making me remittance as soon as he conveniently can 
because if I shou'd succeed in getting Money here, the sooner funds are 
placed me to repay, the less Interest and more satisfaction will arise. 6 

Three Commissioners will be appointed by Congress to hold Treaties 
and conclude lasting peace with the Indians in the Southern Department. 
We are now debating on their Instructions etc. What they will be, who 
they will be and when the Treaties will be held I cannot yet tell you. 

I have had some thought of nominating the Speaker of the House of 
Commons or my friend Hawkins but I have some Doubts Whether they 
will serve. I have come to no Conclusion on this subject. 6 

I have written this in great hurry during some long Debates you will 
no doubt make the proper Allowances 

3 See no. 45, note 7, ante. 

4 See nos. 17, 45, 50, ante ; cf.. the Journals, Aug. 19, Sept. 28, Oct. 3. 

5 See nos. 57, 61, 66, ante, and no. 101, post. 

[69] X N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 52, 65, 67, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 57, ante. 

4 A committee was appointed Feb. 21 to devise a plan for the general regulation of 
the militia, but was discharged May 16 and the matter referred to the secretary at war. 

5 See nos. 85 (note 4), 102, post. 

6 The speaker at the session ended Nov. 26, 1784, was William Blount. 



62 Continental Congress 

70. Jacob Read to George Washington. 1 

New York 9th March 1785. 
Sir, 

When I had the pleasure to see you last summer at Mount Vernon I 
believe I informed you in answer to a question on the subject that Congress 
had received a Copy of the Roll of Negroes etca. taken by the Com- 
missioners for superintending the Embarkations at New York at the time 
of the removal of the Refugees and British Garrison from this City. I 
now find I was mistaken and that the one I had seen in the office of the 
Secretary of Congress was only of 168 Negroes being the last Inspection 
of the whole and made on board some Transports at that time at anchor 
at Staten Island. The General Roll never has been seen by Congress and 
is at this time wanted to enable our Ministers in Europe to proceed to 
execute the Instructions of Congress of 1783 on the Subject of Negroes 
Carried off in Contravention of the Treaty of peace. 

I request Your Excellency to forward the document alluded to as early 
as possible. 2 

As I embark in a day or two for So. Carolina to be absent for 2 or 3 
Months I cannot flatter myself with the pleasure of any Correspondence 
with you till my return unless I can render you any Service in Charles 
Town. I beg you'l command me in such case without reserve and assure 
yourself I shall feel the grateful pleasure in obeying your Commands. 

The Public Prints will ere this have informed you that Mr. Jno. Adams 
is elected Minister to the Court of London. I had the happiness to Succeed 
in my endeavours to send Col. Wm. Smith as Secretary to the Legation. 
Mr. McHenry of Maryland now in Congress offered himself and there 
were sev'l other Candidates but finding himself not likely to be Elected 
Mr. McHenry with a wonderful dexterity rose and nominated the very 
man whom he in a conversation with me had offered a great many argu- 
ments to defeat, it was the Col'ls wish to Stand on The Nomination of 
So. Carolina, but we were supplanted by this little Son of Esculapius, 
however Smith was at once Elected. 8 

Congress Yesterday Elected Genl. Knox Secretary at War. I put Col'l 
Walker of your late Family in Nomination and he had an Honourable 
Support. The Sallary is cut down to Twenty four hundred and fifty 
Dollars, not I am sure Suff't to render it worth Genl. Knox's acceptance. 
With this Idea I brought forward Col. Walkers Name — he would have 
been Elected but the New Englanders thought Genl. Knox wou'd accept 
and rely on the future generosity of Congress to make him some allowance 
— House, Rent, Travelling expenses etc.* 

[70] l Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. in, post; cf. the Journals, May 26, 30, Dec. 22, 1783. 

8 See nos. 28, 33, 41, 44, 45, 65, 66. ante, and no. 103, post. Col. William Stephens 
Smith was elected secretary to the legation to the court of Great Britain Mar. 1. Con- 
cerning McHenry's desire for a foreign appointment see vol. VII., nos. 158, 175. 

* See no. 67, ante, and no. 71, post. Read's nomination of Col. Benjamin Walker 
as secretary at war was on Mar. 4, when Gen. Alexander McDougall and Joseph Carleton 
were also put in nomination, the first by Howell, the second by Ellery. 



March, 1785 63 

From the want of a full Congress the great National Questions still 
remain untouched and will not be attempted till late in the Spring when 
it is hoped we may assemble the whole force of the Union and try if we 
can act as a Nation, which by the bye I very much doubt now the common 
tye of danger is removed .... 

71. Rufus King to Henry Knox. 1 

New York 10th March, 1785. 
Sir, 

Before this comes to hand you will have received official notice of your 
appointment of secretary at war; with this notice you will undoubtedly 
be informed that the salary is fixed at twenty four hundred and fifty 
Dollars — this sum is too small, but in the existing situation of affairs it 
was not practicable to obtain a larger sum — the Office is certainly a very 
honorable one, and the U. S. will not suffer the head of so very respectable 
a department to remain unsupported, the ordinance for erecting federal 
buildings on the Delaware, makes provision for the secretary at war. 
the salary of that Officer has been determined on, since the passing of 
the ordinance relative to federal buildings; a future congress would 
probably be of opinion that House Rent should be allowed to the Secretary 
at War exclusive of his salary, until the federal buildings are completed. 

Add to this, if the contingent expenses of the Office, including the 
expenses of travelling to and from the various Ports and Magazines are 
allowed to the secretary, the salary would be more adequate to his support. 

In fact, when congress shall be convinced by a particular statement of 
expenditure that the salary is insufficient, they certainly will not refuse 
to increase it : the present sum therefore I hope will not be an objection. 

If the wishes of your particular friends, and the entire Satisfaction 
of the States would be an inducement to your acceptance, you cannot 
refuse. I could not excuse myself, did I not make these observations to 
you ; the present wasteing condition of the Department requires the hand 
of a Master; if you decline, I fear we shall be driven into an election, 
that will nither aid the Dignity, nor preserve the interest of the 
Union. 2 .... 

72. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York March 10th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have very little news here. Mr. Marbois has inform'd us 
there will be no war between the Emperor and the Dutch, and the Minister 
of the latter expresses himself to the same purpose, but neither has 
communicated the terms of pacification. 

[71] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVIII. 4. 

2 Cf. nos. 61, 70, ante, and no. 82, post. Knox's reply to this letter (mentioned as 
"of the 14th instant") Mar. 28 is in Life of King, I. 84. 

[72] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Con- 
stitution, I. 416 (extract). 



64 Continental Congress 

Congress are engaged in a plan for opening their Land Office on the 
Western waters, In recommending a plan for extending their powers in 
forming Commercial treaties, In regulating the Post Office and in making 
a Peace establishment. They have directed a treaty to be form'd if prac- 
ticable with the Piratical States on the coast of Africa. I expect a Minister 
will be appointed to the Court of Spain after the arrival here of Don 
Diego Gardoqui, and one I presume will be appointed to Holland in the 
room of Mr. Adams who goes to the Court of St. James. 2 



73. Richard Dobbs Spaight to James Iredell. 1 

New York, 10th March, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have lately appointed Mr. John Adams Minister to 
the Court of London ; it was a step absolutely necessary to be taken ; and 
I think it has been delayed too long; and it's well for America if her 
saving policy don't cost her millions. 

The holding of our Western Posts contrary to the treaty, her different 
arrangements in Canada, and the Lakes, added to the murmurs of the 
nation against America, and the restraints laid upon our commerce with 
them, show so hostile a disposition in the court of Great Britain towards 
us, that I think we should at least be prepared for any thing that may 
happen. Yet the States seem to be lulled into perfect security: few of 
them have organized, and armed their militia: still fewer have taken 
any steps to procure a sufficient supply of military stores, without which 
no nation ought to be; and I think our situation at the beginning of the 
late war, for want of those articles, ought to be a warning to America, 
never to be unprovided. The want of money, and the unsettled state of 
Ireland, rather than the want of inclination, will prevent them from 
renewing the controversy. 2 

Mrs. Montgomery, the widow of the late General of that name, re- 
quested me to write to some of my acquaintance in Edenton, to know 
what had become of the statue (I believe it is) that was ordered by Con- 
gress to be erected to his memory : it was sent from France to Edenton ; 
and lodged in the hands of Messrs. Hewes, Smith and Allen : an order of 
Congress passed at Annapolis for its being sent thence to this city. Shall 
I take the liberty of requesting you to make this inquiry, and to inform 
me of the result?" 

2 Cf. no. 65, ante. 
[73] » McRee, Life of Iredell, II. 120. 
2 Cf. no. 57, ante. 
8 See the Journals, June 1, 1784, Apr. 29, Nov. 30, 1785. 



March, 1785 65 

74. William Churchill Houston to Samuel Dick. 1 

Trenton ii March 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

This Day I received a Letter from Mr. Cadwalader urging my Prepara- 
tion to repair to New York, and that I would forward you a Notice to do 
the like. Had it been expected of me to go to New York, which I am now 
well convinced it never was, and had I the Strongest Inclination to be 
there, it would be totally improper and impracticable for me to think of 
it Seriously, considering the Time proposed which is the first of April. The 
Supreme Court then comes on, where official Duty will not dispense with 
my Attendence, 2 that will last near if not a fortnight, from the Appearance 
of Business. The next Court comes on early in May. In this Detail I pay 
no regard to professional Business, but to that only which is required of 
me as Clerk of the Supreme Court. I did once expect to have been able 
to attend after May Court, but upon examining the Matter with Attention, 
am compelled to give up the Prospect as hopeless, reluctantly indeed, but 
so it must be. Perhaps the Legislature may meet in the Spring, when I 
can retire with Propriety from the Delegation. On your Way to New- 
York give me a Call, and I will convince you that I do right in not indulg- 
ing any Hopes of Attending in Congress during their Stay at New- York ; 
at least for the present Year. 

You will come on as soon as practicable. Not later, by any Means, than 
the first Week in April. And I hope it may be convenient with respect to 
Business, and agreeable in Point of Inclination. But be sure to come in 
any Event. 

I am, dear Sir, with real Respect, your very obedt. and hble Servt. 

W C Houston 

75. James McHenry to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 

New York ii March 1785. 

.... Mr. Henry arrived on Thursday which makes three in con- 
formity to the recommendation of Congress. In a few days Delaware 
will be present and Georgia is expected hourly; so that we may soon see 
the union fully represented. 2 This circumstance and the many important 
matters before Congress in which the State is materially interested will 
keep me here till some time in next month, then I hope to be at liberty 
to make a visit to Philadelphia to endeavour to persuade Mrs. McHenry 
to accompany me to New- York. 

I presume you have heard of our late appointments, Adams to the 
court of London, and Jefferson successor to Doctor Franklin. We still 
continue however (so inform Mr. Stone) Mr. Adams and Jefferson joint 
commissioners to form commercial treaties. 

[74] * Original in the possession of Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem, N. J., photostat 
furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 
2 Houston was clerk of the Supreme Court of New Jersey. 
[75]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 Bedford and Vining of Delaware appear to have attended Mar. 18 and 22, 
respectively, Habersham and Baldwin of Georgia on May 30. 



66 Continental Congress 

Mr. Stone will oblige me very much by giving me as early notice as 
possible whether the within report is in conformity to his sentiments; or 
whether it meet [met] with his concurrence in the grand committee. Some 
are of opinion that an average, say 75, would bring the U. S. less in debt. 
I fear the report would open a door for frauds to a considerable amount. 3 
Mr. Stone will excuse me for not writing him by this post. It does not he 
may be assured proceed from any other cause than want of time. 4 



76. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York March 14, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

Your favors (for I am always favored when you are pleased to write 
to me) by Mr. Walker of the 9th and by Captain Landais of the 10th 
of December were duly delivered to me by those gentlemen, and, without 
loss of time I laid them before Congress. Their applications have been 
referred to very good Committees, so that there is reason to expect that 
these Gentlemen will receive just and satisfactory determinations from 
Congress. 2 .... Upon these principles 8 I have ever been opposed to 
the 5 P Cent imposts, My idea is still that of the Confederation, Fix 
the sum, apportion it and let every State by its own means, and in its own 
way faithfully and honestly make its payment. That the now federal 
mode of apportionment is productive of delay, of great expence, and still 

8 The report enclosed was probably that on requisitions, delivered Mar. 31 (see 
the Journals, p. 216); cf. nos. 29, 33, 53, ante, 87, 91, 109, 113, post. Stone was a 
member of the grand committee that made the report for 1784. See the Journals, Apr. 27, 
28, 1784. 

* This letter is without address but it was evidently to Jenifer, as the first 
paragraph (omitted here) is undoubtedly in reply to Jenifer's letter to McHenry Feb. 17, 
in Steiner, Life of James McHenry, p. 89. One passage in that letter is worthy of 
reproduction : 

" But my friend Requisitions will never do ; Congress must have permanent funds, the 
5 p. ct. is the most eligible method in my opinion that can be adopted for the purpose of 
raising a revenue. Cannot Rhode Island be brought in the measure. Is that state to 
frustrate so salutary a measure, is her veto to be of equal force with that of a tribune 
of Anc't Rome. If this state should continue to be inflexible, I fear there must be a 
new convention especially appointed by all the states to encrease the powers of Congress, 
or it will be obliged from necessity to assume them, as Political bodies have heretofore 
generally done." See no. 194, post. 

[76] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 341; Lee, 
Richard Henry Lee, II. 60. 

2 The memorial of Thomas Walker, praying for compensation for losses in Canada, 
was referred to a committee Jan. 24, a report made Apr. 11, and payment on account 
ordered Apr. 15. The memorial of Pierre Landais, asking for gratuity and pay, was 
referred to a committee Feb. 10, the committee, which was renewed Apr. 12, made a 
report Apr. 18. and action was taken in Congress June 2. See further Adams to Lee 
Dec. 17, 1785 {Writings, IV. 318), and the Journals, Aug. 2, 11 (12 ?), 1786. 

8 Preceding this passage is a dissertation on the dangers of granting to rulers 
excessive power. Alluding to the " constant cry ", " That Congress must have more 
power — That we cannot be secure and happy until Congress command implicitly both 
purse and sword ", he remarks, " I think Sir that the first maxim of a man who loves 
liberty should be, never to grant to Rulers an atom of power that is not most clearly and 
indispensably necessary for the safety and well being of Society ". 



March, 1785 67 

liable to frequent change, is certain. And therefore I see no inconvenience 
in so far altering the Confederation as to make the Rule of Apportionment 
lie upon the numbers as stated in the recommendation of Congress upon 
that Subject. 4 But I can never agree that this Body shall dictate the mode 
of Taxation, or that the collection shall in any manner be subject to 
Congressional controul. It is said that this will more effectually secure 
the Revenue. But how so? if a spirit prevails to neglect a duty imposed 
by the Confederation, may not the same spirit render abortive at any time 
Acts passed for granting the Impost? .... Let it be therefore the effort 
of every Patriot to encourage a punctual payment of each State's quota 
of the foederal demand, and let the money be found in ways most agreable 
to the circumstances of every State. This is the plan of the Confederation, 
and this I own will be mine, until more satisfactory experience has proved 
its inefficacy 



yy. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Secretary's Office March 18th, 1785. 
Sir, 

Congress being impressed with the Necessity of limiting a time for all 
persons having unliquidated Claims against the United States to bring 
in such Claims as well for the purpose of ascertaining with the utmost 
expedition the amount of the National debt, as to prevent or detect the 
attempts that are making to defraud the public, have passed the resolution 
which I have the honor to enclose. 

As it is of importance to the inhabitants of your State, who have just 
Claims against the United States to be informed of this as speedily as 
possible I trust your Excellency will excuse the liberty I take in addressing 
this resolution to you and requesting that you will be pleased to give the 
Necessary Orders for making it known to all concerned, by causing it to 
be printed and dispersed through the different Counties and districts of 
your State or in such other way as you shall judge best. 2 

4 The reference is presumably to the method of apportionment proposed Apr. 18, 
1783, as an amendment to the eighth article of the Confederation. 

[77] x Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 91; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5564; 
Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 68; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 431; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 424. 

2 These resolutions had their origin in a motion of Gerry Feb. 23 and a motion of 
Howell the same day. The committee to whom both motions were referred made a 
report Feb. 28. A broadside of that report is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., William Henry Papers, 
p. 243. Cf. no. 78, post. 

On Mar. 17 a memorial from James Willing, asking for a settlement of his accounts, 
was laid before Congress. Willing had written (from Philadelphia) to James Wilson 
Feb. 12 with regard to his proposed memorial, and on Feb. 20 he transmitted the memorial 
to Wilson. In both letters Willing insisted upon the importance of giving attention to 
the question of the navigation of the Mississippi and offered to place his special knowledge 
at the service of Congress. Copies of these letters (from the originals, then in the 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia) are in possession of Carnegie 
Institution. The committee to whom Willing's memorial was referred was renewed 
June 14, and again Aug. 8. On Aug. 26 the committee was discharged and the matter 



68 Continental Congress 

78. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of North 
Carolina (Alexander Martin). 1 

New York 18th March 1785. 
Sir, 

Since our last to your Excellency of the 1st Instant, Congress have 
passed resolutions for holding Treaties of peace with the Indians in the 
southern Department. Three Commissioners are to be appointed for this 
purpose, and monies voted for paying the incidental expences. Each of 
the Executives of the Southern States are to be officially informed on 
this subject, and may, if they think proper send an Agent to be present 
at the Treaties. 2 

We enclose your Excellency a Resolve of Congress, limiting the time 
in which unliquidated accounts against the United States, are to be given 
in to the Commissioners appointed to adjust and settle the Accounts of 
Individuals against the United States, and precluding those who fail to 
comply with that resolution from any future Settlement. We thought it 
our duty to oppose it, as we conceive the time allowed is too short for the 
Citizens of North Carolina living in the western parts of the State, who 
are Creditors of the United States. There being no Commissioners in the 
State will, however, extend the time a month or two Longer." 

Mr. Jefferson is appointed to succeed Doctor Franklin at the Court of 
Versailles, who has leave to retire agreeable to his repeated request. Mr. 
John Brown of Providence is elected a Commissioner for carrying into 
effect the Ordinance of the 23d December last, in the place of Genl. 
Schuyler who has declined accepting that Appointment. 4 Nothing more 
of Consequence has occured that we are at liberty to communicate. 



79. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New-York Sunday 20th March [1785]. 
My dear sir, 

.... Congressional Affairs are nearly as you left them. Mr. Jeffer- 
son was unanimously elected for Versailles, and tomorrow most probably 

referred to the board of treasury to report upon. If the board at any time made a report 
it has not been found. Concerning Willing's operations see these Letters, vols. II.-V. 
(index). 

T781 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, "His Excellency the Governor of North Carolina", and 
signed by Spaight and Sitgreaves) ; .V. C. State Recs., XVII. 433. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 4. 10, 11, 15, 21, and 24; cf. nos. 39, 57, ante, 80-82, 85, 

?3, 124. post. After the three commissioners, as provided for in the act of Mar. 1$, had 
een chosen (Mar. 21), namely, Benjamin Hawkins of North Carolina, Daniel Carroll 
of Maryland, and William Peery of Delaware, it was resolved to appoint two additional 
commissioners, and accordingly Andrew Pickens of South Carolina and Joseph Martin of 
Virginia were immediately elected. 

• See the Journals, Mar. 17, and no. 77, ante. 

* See nos. 41, 44, 45, 65, 70, ante, 79, 101, post. 

r79] x N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original); Life of Kino, I. 216 (with the date 
1787). 



March, 1785 69 

Mr. Rutledge will be appointed to the Hague. 2 your motion limiting the 
period within which the public Creditors should be allowed to exhibit 
their Claims, has passed into a resolve and will be transmitted to the 
respective executives. 3 

Story returned on Friday. Mr. Wythe accepts. Grayson has been 
here some days and as he and Mr. Monroe are informed of the period 
within which an answer is expected, they will probably give their answer 
tomorrow, which is the last day. No other Answers from any of the com- 
missioners except Mr. Harrison and Mr. Johnson have been received. 
You understand the situation of this business, and its importance. The 
agents must attend to it. Wilson is here for this with other business. I 
have not the original second agreement and without it nothing farther 
can be done. 4 

Two letters from Osgood to you came to hand the day you left us. I 
knew the character, and supposing, as in fact was the case, that they might 
be on the subject of his appointment, I opened them, found his objections 
to the extent of the bonds and procured an explanatory Resolve, that 
places the business in the train that corresponds with my own opinion. 5 .... 

The General Court I suppose has risen before this day. I hope they 
have done what was necessary relative to the letter of the Delegates, and 
also touching the object of a Western cession. New York have added 
our little friend, Mrs. Laurence's husband and two other gentlemen, 
who I am told are in the stile of Judge Piatt, to their Delegation in Con- 
gress, Delaware will be on the floor tomorrow, and Georgia, it is said, 
will very soon be represented — that will give us a complete representation. 
For God's sake return soon. 6 



80. The Secretary of Congress to the Commissioners appointed 
to negotiate with the southern indians. 1 

Secretary's Office March 24th 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose you an Act of the United States in Congress 
assembled passed the 15th Instant for Negotiating a treaty of peace with 

2 See no. 101, post. 

3 See no. 78, note 2, ante. 

4 King is alluding to the appointments to the federal court to adjudge the con- 
troversy between Massachusetts and New York. See nos. 37, 65, ante, 82, 91, post. 

5 A letter from Osgood relative to his appointment to the treasury board was 
read in Congress Mar. 10, but may have arrived Mar. 9. Gerry's departure was therefore 
on the 9th or 10th. See nos. 66 (notes 4 and 6), 67, ante; also Gerry to King Mar. 14, 
21, 28, and Apr. 7, Life of King, I. 73, 82, 83, 86. 

G Charles Thomson wrote to his wife Mar. 22 : "I have not heard of any com- 
plaints among the members except what arises from the dearness of living. Delaware is 
come on, so that we have now 12 states represented" (Library of Congress, Charles 
Thomson Papers, Misc.). Much of the letter is an account of a conference between the 
New York senate and assembly upon a bill for the gradual abolition of slavery, a con- 
ference which Thomson had attended (Mar. 12). A feature of the conference was a 
witty speech by Ephraim Paine. 

[80] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 71. 



70 Continental Congress 

the Southern Indians, and a Commission empowering you with four 
other gentlemen therein named to transact this business. 2 

As it is of importance to the peace of the Union and the safety of the 
frontier settlements, that the treaty be commenced as speedily as possible, 
I have it in command to inform you that it is the pleasure of Congress 
that the Commissioners appointed to Negotiate with the Southern Indians 
meet at Charleston, South Carolina on the 16th day of May and there 
fix on the time and place for holding a treaty or treaties with the said 
Indians, take the proper steps for giving due Notice thereof to the several 
Nations and tribes concerned, and make the Necessary preparations for 
executing the further duties of the Commission, with all possible and 
convenient dispatch. 

To Benjamin Hawkins, Daniel Carroll, William Perry [Peery], Andrew 
Pickens and Joseph Martin Esquires. 

81. The Secretary of Congress to Certain Statk- 

Secretary's office March 24th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose an Act of the United States in Congress 
assembled passed the 15th Instant for Negotiating a treaty of peace with 
the Southern Indians, and of the appointment of Commissioners for that 
purpose. 

As it nearly concerns the peace of the Union and the Safety of the 
frontier settlements that this business be entered on without delay, and 
as of your State is one of the Commissioners, I take the 

liberty to enclose a letter to him containing his Commission and instruc- 
tions, and beg leave to request, that your Excellency will be pleased to 
forward it to him by the speediest and safest conveyance. 

Directed to His Excellency the President of Delaware and the Governors 
of Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina." 

2 See nos. 39, 57, 78, ante, 81, 82, post. The commissioners were chosen Mar. 21. 
A form of the commission, in Thomson's writing, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. tfy 
Carroll wrote Apr. 19 declining on account of his health (Journals, May n), and on 
May 16 Lachlan Mcintosh of Georgia was chosen in his stead. The form of his com- 
mission was agreed upon May 17 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 283), and on May 18 
Thomson wrote him accordingly (Secretary's Letter- Book, o. 80). 

[81] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter Book, p. 69; Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, 
VI. 89; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 434- 

2 See no. 78, note 2, ante. No citizen of Georgia was named on tin- commii 
but as that state was necessarily concerned in the negotiations the secretary addn 
a similar letter to its governor. The first paragraph of the letter, except for two minor 
variations in phraseology, was the same as the first paragraph above, the remainder as 
follows : 

" As the happy accomplishment of this business nearly concerns the peace of the Union 
and the safety of the frontier settlements. Congress rely with confidence on your zeal 
for the public welfare, and on the exertions of your State as far as may be necessary for 
the attainment of so desircable an object and for bringing it to a speedy and happy issue " 
(Letter- Book, p. 70). Evidently through an error it was this latter form that was sent 
to North Carolina (N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs.. XY11. 
434). See no. 82, post. 






March, 1/85 71 

82. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, March 24th, 1785. 
Dear Gerry, 

I this moment received your's written the morning after your arrival 
at Boston. I am pleased with the acceptance of Genl. Knox and hope that 
the measures adopted by Congress after you left us will induce Mr. 
Osgood to come forward without delay. 2 I have once and again written 
to the Agents of Mass. on the subject of the controversy between us and 
N. Y. ; but as the gentlemen make me no reply, I shall decline farther 
communication. Wythe, Johnson and Monroe accepted within the two 
months ; Grayson and Harrison declined — no answer from any of the other 
gentlemen. New York are moving for an alteration of the place of trial. 
I will oppose my feeble strength to them, but I shall regret your absence. 3 
Delaware is represented so that there are now twelve states on the floor 
and a full representation is daily expected by an additional Delegate from 
Georgia. We have by the last post a very rugged instruction from our 
Legislature. We will manage it as well as is in our power, consulting the 
gentle demeanor of our colleague the Doctor, 4 who I hope will now come 
up to what you and I believe our duty on the subject of the federal 
buildings. 

I thank you for the Politicks you give me ; the R. Island Act for an 
impost had reached us before your letter; New York have been you know 

[82] ! Life of King, I. 82; Life of Gerry, I. 490. 

2 See no. 79, ante. Copies of a number of letters from Gerry to King, among them 
one of Mar. 18, were at one time in possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York (see 
no. 63. note 4, ante). The letter here referred to, dated Mar. 14, is in Life of King, I. 73. 

3 See nos. 31, 37, 79, ante, 91, 112, post ; also Gerry's reply Apr. 7, Life of King, 
I. 86. 

4 Dr. Samuel Holten. The " very rugged instruction " of the legislature, Mar. 8, 
is in Resolves of the General Court of the; Commonwealth of Massachusetts, May, 1784- 
Jan., 1785, p. 131, and includes eight or more distinct instructions. One of them, namely, 
that the delegates endeavor to procure a resolution that no member of Congress shall 
be appointed to any office during the term for which he shall have been elected, together 
with the preamble to the whole, is embodied in a motion of the Massachusetts delegates 
May 23, and was reported as a resolution July 21. A second instruction was that the 
delegates endeavor to procure a resolution for the annual appointment of the secretary 
of Congress. There is no record that such an effort was made, but see nos. 94, 99, post. 
A third instruction required the delegates to exert themselves for the completion of the 
proposed federal buildings, and " with that oeconomy and plainness which is suitable to 
the state of a young republic, and with decency suited to the residence of a national 
council ". See no. 37, ante, and no. 98, post. A fourth urged immediate efforts to 
secure the free navigation of the Mississippi, and also the establishment of the eastern 
boundary of Massachusetts; a fifth insisted that ministers or other public officers be 
not sent to foreign courts or continued therein except on such occasions as the public 
good may absolutely require, with which was coupled a further admonition that the 
" strictest oeconomy should be observed in all their affairs " and that " salaries and 
allowances to public officers should coincide with the principles herein expressed " ; a sixth 
demanded that the delegates exert their " utmost endeavours " in behalf of a measure for 
the redemption of the old Continental money ; a seventh called upon them to use their 
" unwearied and unabated exertions " to obtain credit for the Penobscot expedition, and 
likewise for the bounties paid by the several towns for soldiers ; and lastly, " deeply 
impressed with the dangerous tendency " of allowing consuls residing in the United States 
powers and privileges similar to those of ambassadors, a provision which they had been 
informed was included in the proposed consular convention with France, the legislature 
instructed the delegates to oppose strenuously the passage of such an agreement. 



72 Continental Congress 

upon the subject of Impost, and yesterday the question upon a Bill, copied 
from the Mass. Act, was lost in the Senate, there being only Eight in favor 
and Ten against it. 8 

The business of Congress proceeds with great facility by so full a 
representation. Congress have agreed on a Treaty to be held at Post 
Vincent in June with the Indians North West of the Ohio ; and also to a 
Treaty South of the Ohio. This Treaty was opposed by the circum- 
scribed States, because it might cover the States of Georgia, So. and No. 
Carolina in purchases of Indian Rights of soil within the boundaries of 
those States. It was well answered that the U. S. are bound to procure 
peace to all the Citizens of the Union, and that the Citizens of the 
Southern States had a right to require the U. S. to establish peace with 
the enemy within their Country. The Object of the Treaty is confined to 
peace only; and the Commissioners restricted upon the subject of a 
boundary of property between the Indians and the several States. The 
Commissioners for this Treaty are Mr. Perry 8 of Delaware, Mr. Carroll 
of Maryland, Mr. Hawkins of N. Carolina, Mr. Martin of Virginia and 
Mr. Pickens of So. Carolina 



83. Abiel Foster to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York 26th March 1785. 
Sir, 

The Hon'ble Mr. Cook a Member of Congress from the State of 
Connecticut, from the good opinion he has concieved of Capt. John Lamb, 
wishes me to enclose a Letter of recommendation addressed to me by my 
worthy friend Genl. Parsons, at the time Mr. Lamb produced his other cre- 
dentials to Congress. The Hon'ble Mr. Jay has so fully stated the opinion 
of Congress to the Commissioners respecting those other credentials, that 
I need say nothing on that head. You have my warmest wishes for the 
success of your negotiations, and for your personal health and prosperity.' 

8 See nos. 33, 45, ante, 84, 89, 1 10, post. James Duane wrote to Washington 
Mar. 10: " The five per Cent Requisition goes on heavily and I am very apprehensive of it's 
Fate even in this State which once took the Lead in every federal Measure. The Rhode 
Island and other Eastern publications against this Grant have made a deep Impn 
in the Counties most exposed to their Influence, a bill on this interesting subject is 
under comitment in the Senate and will be brought forward in a few days. It is to be 
lamented that even there it will meet with warm Opposition." Library of Congress, 
Washington Papers. 

8 William Peery. See no. 39, note 3, ante; cf. no. 78, note 2. ante, and n 
post. "Post Vincent" ("St. Vincents", etc.) was Vmcennes. See the Journals, Mar. 18 
(PP- 173. 180) ; also nos. 124, 143, 151, 153, 156, 166, post. 
[83] l Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 The memorial of John Lamb, offering his services in the negotiations with the 
Barbary powers, was laid before Congress Feb. 9 and referred to the secretary for 
foreign affairs, whose report, dated Feb. 10 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 81. vol. I., f. 5), 
was read Feb. 11. That report was in turn referred, Feb. 14, to a committee (Monroe, 
Robert R. Livingston, and Johnson), whose report was adopted Feb. 15. In his report 
of Feb. 10 Jay stated " That these negociations ought to be under the Direction of the 
American Plenipotentiaries in Europe for making Treaties of Commerce: and that Mr. 
Lamb might probably be employed by them to advantage as an Agent in the Businc^ 
Lamb stated in his memorial (ibid., no. 42, vol. IV., f. 368) : "Your Memorialist can 



March, 1785 73 

84. William Samuel Johnson to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

N York Mar. 26th, 178^. 
D'r S'r, 

I reed yr. favr. 2 and now return you my best thanks both for that and 
by Anticipation for the many others which I hope to receive from you. 
The Informations you have or shall be so good as to give me shall as 
far as possible be made a good use of and in this way while I continue in 

offer no other inducements to this trust than his zeal for the Service of the United States 
and his knowledge of the Country to which he desires to be sent, acquired by an intercourse 
of five years ; and asks no reward for his services, all he requires being to have the 
sanction of the United States and the necessary powers to treat." With the memorial 
appears to have been filed a recommendation by Samuel and Benjamin Huntington, 
signed Nov. 19, 1784, certifying that the bearer, Capt. John Lamb of Norwich in Con- 
necticut was " a Person of Integrity and Ability in Trade " and would doubtless employ 
" his faithful Endeavours to Promote the Trade and Commerce of America ". To this is 
appended a certificate by Governor Griswold, dated Nov. 27, that " the foregoing 
representation .... is according to my apprehension a True and Just representation 
of the Character of Capt. John Lamb , and that he heartily concurred in the recom- 
mendation {ibid., f. 376). In addition Samuel Huntington wrote Jay from Norwich 
Jan. 10: "Capt. John Lamb of this Place will have the honor of delivering this Letter. 
He hath formed the Design of going to the Coast of Barbary where he is well acquainted, 
having made several Voyages to those Parts before the late War, and resided con- 
siderable Time in that Country. He is desirous to obtain some aid from Congress as a 
Protection, and willing to do any national Service for us in his Power. Capt. Lamb is 
a Gentleman of Fidelity and mercantile Knowledge, especially in the Marine Depart- 
ment, of an enterprising Genius and intrepid Spirit " {ibid., f. 372, " Copied from the 
original by Henry Remsen"). 

The letter of Samuel Holden Parsons to Abiel Foster which Foster enclosed to Jefferson 
(Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, original), written from " Middletown in Con- 
nects " Jan. 1, 1785, follows: 

" The Bearer Capt. John Lamb is a Gentleman on whose Fidelity, understanding and 
mercantile Abilities great Confidence is plac'd by his Acquaintance ; he is acquainted on 
the Coast of Barbary and is perhaps as well calculated to accomplish his mercantile 
purposes among those People as any Man. as we have yet no Treaty with those People 
it becomes necessary for him to have some Congressional Authority to warrant his 
proceedings, he will explain to you his views and I beg Leave to recommend him to 
your Friendship in procuring whatever shall be necessary." 

Jeremiah Wadsworth wrote to William Samuel Johnson Apr. 3 (postscript to the 
letter mentioned under no. 84, post) : " I wrote you some, days since a letter which not 
going by the hand I intend [ed] it shou'd, has been mislaid, the purport of it was to 
know what recommendations Capt. Lamb brought to Congress, some of the Gentlemen 
who wrote say it was only to recommend him for such a passport as Congress give to 
any of their subjects commanding American Vessels, and affect to redicule Congress for 
spending a thought on Capt. Lamb as an ambassador. This is not to be sure very 
important, but if there has been any thing rediculous in the transactions, it shou'd light on 
the authors of it. I have asserted that what Congress did was in consequence of letters from 
this State, or rather men of Rank in the State." 

It appears evident that Lamb's purpose was primarily commercial, and that the part 
which he wished to take in the treaty negotiations were to be a means to that end. On 
Mar. 11 Lamb appears to have departed on his mission, bearing despatches to the 
commissioners relative to treating with the Barbary powers. See Jay to Adams Apr. 13 
(Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 349). See further no. 273, note 4, post. 

[84] x Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 94 (draft). 

2 Following is the principal part of Wadsworth's letter, dated at Hartford Mar. 13 : 
" I hope before this you are safely arrived at N York and find every thing going well, 
the appointment of General Knox will give satisfaction, the Post Office is greatly com- 
plained of; and I believe with justice. The Stages will rob it of all profit — it used to 
afford [r]evenue — it certainly ought to do so now; and I [beli]eve under proper regu- 
lations it would be worth a very considerable Sum. is this not worth the attention of 
Congress. I am of the Opinion that troops might be raised for five dollars a Month as 



74 Continental Congress 

this situation you may perhaps be yourself and render me of some use 
to our common Country which certainly extremely wants the aid of all 
such Men as I am convinced you are. I wish extremely you had an im- 
mediate part in the affairs of our nasscent Empire which blest with all 
the means and rising to the fairest prospects of felicity and glory seems 
already destined 8 to ruin thro the persis't narrowness timidity and 
obstinacy of some of our Countrymen. Sorry I am to tell you the Senate 
of N Y have by a Maj'y of two reject'd the Impost Bill and Dashed all 
our fond Hopes of a speedy establishm't of our Regulation for Justice 
Interest and Honor. 4 What shall we do next? It is hard to endure the 
stain and injury which must be derived from a Charact'r of Perfidy, 
ingratitude, injustice and folly when the bulk of the sensible and virtu- 
ous part of the Comm[unit]y are both able and wiling to efface it by 
vig[orou]s and virt[uou]s Efforts and are only imped'd and restrained by 
the baseness and meanness of a few. 8 Upon the resign [atiojn of Gen'al 
Schyler I did my endeav[our]s to give you the trouble of assist'g to 
Conduct our Federal Buildings but the Intrigues of Rhode Island were 
too powerful for me. I sho'd have probably succeeded had I sooner had 
Notice of the resignat'n which had arriv'd bef[or]e my return. 8 I sho'd 
have deserved [ ?] no thanks from you I am sensible for giving you that 
trouble but I think you would have derived 7 some Hon'r and the U. S. 
much benefit from it, which ought to be a sufficient Apology. 8 The Troops 

many as may be wanted in raise'g new Corps, ought not the experiment to be tried. If 
the troops now in this State on furlow were paid and disbanded I am persuaded they 
would to a Man enlist again for five dollars per Month: indeed five dollars a Month, 
and Cloth'g and food, is better pay, than such men, as generally inlist for Soldiers, can 
obtain any other way. You see Sir I have taken you at your word and began to write 
to you. if the matter of the Post Office should undergo any alteration the regulations 
respecting the comeing in and g[oing] out of the Posts in the different States^as well 
as their rout should be regulated by Congress and not left to the Post Masters." Conn. 
Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 92. 

8 The word " destined " is written above " verging ", which however remains 
unerased. 

* Cf. no. 82, note 5, ante. 

5 In his reply, Apr. 3 (Conn. Hist. Soc., Wadsworth Papers), Wadsworth says: 
" I am exceedingly mortified at the conduct of the New York Senate : but I hope Congress 
will persevere in their demand for a General impost as any alteration of their System 
will probably be attended with equal delays. The American Character began to sink 
before I left Europe. I am glad I did not remain their, to blush for my Country : which 
by this time I fear is sunk very low. I can remember no period of the Warr when I 
looked on our affairs with so much despondency, as at present : yet I will not despair — 
agreeing with you that the bulk of the sensible and Virtuous part of America are 
willing to prevent our ruin by Virtuous and Vigorous efforts '." 

9 Schuyler's declination was read in Congress Mar. 10, the day on which Johns, n 
appears to have returned. On Mar. II, on a motion of Howell of Rhode Island, seconded 
by Beatty of New Jersey, the following Tuesday (Mar. 15) was assigned for the election 
of a commissioner in his stead. The election did not take place however until the 16th, 
when John Brown of Rhode Island was chosen, having been nominated by Beatty. 

7 Johnson first wrote " acqu'd " (1. e., acquired). 

8 Wadsworth replied : " Your endeavor to obtain the appointment, of the place 
Genl. Schuyler resigned, for me is flattering to me. but be assured I have not a Wish to 
hold any office under Congress, it is not because I have no thirst for honor — I have as 
much ambition as any Man — but I have already severely felt the embarrassments of being 
their officer when they had no power to support me. I have sometimes thought if I was in 
Congress, I shou'd move for a resolution of Congress to dissolve them selves, giving 
for reasons, that the power of recommending was all they had, which was too inert for 



March, 1785 75 

in Conn't are [dissatisfied] and I am glad to find we can have others 
cheaper if we have occasion for them. It is not yet determin'd to raise 
any. 9 

[P. S.] My amiable neighbour whom I have seen several times since 
my return I presume herself acquaints you that she is well and happy. 



85. Richard Dobbs Spaight to William Blount. 1 

New York 27th March 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

In my letter to you of the 19th Instant, I informed you, that the Dele- 
gation had nominated Benj'n Hawkins as one of the Indian Commissioners 
for the southern department, the Election came on on monday last — when 
he was almost Unanimously appointed, eleven out of twelve States voting 
for him. the Jealousy of the circumscribed States, who thought that 
under the Idea of making peace with the Indians we had some under 
hand designs, which might be fatal to their claim of an eaqual [sic] 
partition of unlocated western territory among the members of the Union, 
Occationed a Mr. Danl. Carrol and a Mr. Perry to be elected his col- 
leagues, the first from Maryland the other from Delaware State, they 
thought these two persons would be a check upon any designs that the 
southern States might have, this of course gave very great dissatisfaction 
to the southern States, and occationed a motion to be brought forward, 
for the Appointment of two additional commissioners, as neither Virginia, 
So. Carolina or Georgia had one, which after considerable opposition was 
at last agreed to — the persons elected were Genl. Pickens of So. Carolina 
and Colo. Jos[ep]h Martin of our State, he being nominated by the State 
of Virginia. 

They were instructed to meet at Charleston on the 16th of may to 
consult and take the necessary steps for carrying the resolution into 
Effect. 2 

We have no news from Europe, the British packets for January and 
February are daily expected, also a french packet, the January packet I 
expect has been blown of [f] to the West indies. 3 

Mr. Sitgreaves desires me to present his compliments to you — I am 
with very great Regard and Esteem, Dear Sir, 

Your most Obt. Servant 
Richd. Dobbs Spaight. 4 

the great business of the Nation, this wou'd be a bold, and perhaps dangerous measure: 
but it is a wretched Situation to be looked up too for every thing and be (at least in the 
Public opinion of other Nations) responsible for every thing and have no Power to do 

any thing I . . . . beg of you not to think of me for any public appointment . . . ." 

9 See Wadsworth's letter of Mar. 13, quoted under note 2, above. 
[8s] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 Cf. no. 78, ante. Spaight's letter to Blount Mar. 19 has not been found. 

3 See nos. 87, 89, post. 

* William Blount evidently sent this letter to John Gray Blount, for beneath 
Spaight's signature is a note, dated at " Piney Grove April 8th 1785 ", and on a blank 



76 Continental Congress 

86. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Secretary's Office March 28, 1785. 
Sir, 

In the latter end of January last Congress reed, information of a wicked 
attempt to defraud the public by counterfeiting the certificates of final 
settlement given to the Officers and soldiers of the U S by the Com- 
missioners for settling the accounts of the army. The fraud was the 
more alarming as the villains concerned therein seemed to be possessed 
of a secret which tended to destroy the credit of all writings and to pro- 
duce the most mischievous consequences by rendering all written con- 
tracts insecure. For it appeared that, though the words were altered and 
the sums changed the paper remained unde faced. In consequence of this 
information Congress issued the proclamation of which I enclose a copy. 

Last week one Davison came to this city for the purpose, as he said 
of disclosing the whole scene of villainy. A com'ee was appointed to 
take his examination. This morning they brought in a report accompanied 
with his deposition which for the greater dispatch and surety Congress 
were pleased to refer to me to take Order. 2 I therefore embrace the 
earliest opportunity of transmitting to your Exy a copy of the said report 
and deposition which will sufficiently evince the necessity and importance 
of adopting the most speedy and effectual measures to put a stop to a 
villainy so injurious to private property and destructive of public credit 
by securing and bringing to justice the individuals of so dangerous a 
combination. 

Relying on yr. Excy. to give the necessary orders I shall not trouble 
you with any thing more at present than the assurance that I am with the 
greatest respect yr. Ex'y's most obedt. and most humble Servt. 8 



87. William Hindman to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Paca). 1 

New-York March 28th, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

Congress have not as yet elected a Minister for the Hague. The English 
Packet which ought to have been here some Time ago is not yet arrived, 
so that We have no foreign News. There are twelve States represented 

page another letter of the same date addressed to J. G. Blount, both signed. In the first 
ne says : 

" I can't learn whether there is Peace or War with the Emperor it appears as if no 
Vessels have arrived from Europe this Spring in America. Spaight is very desirous to 
leave Congress and set out for Carolina on the ist of May and will if he gets Mony to 
clear out. pray let me know as soon as his Mony comes to hand and lay it out as soon 
as possible for his Relief." 

[86] 'Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 72. 
2 See the Journals, Jan. 31, Feb. 2, Mar. 28 (p. 206). 

8 A notation in the Letter-Book indicates that the letter was sent " To his Ex'y 
the President of New hampshire the Governor of Massachusetts the Governor of 
Rhode island and Prov. Planta." 

[87] » Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 144. 



March, 1785 77 

in Congress and one Member from Georgia. Mr. Henry and Mr. 
McHenry are now here, the latter intends for Philadelphia in a few Days 
on a Visit to Mrs. McHenry who is now there. Mr. Scott informs me 
he shall set out for this City immediately after the Eastern Shore General 
Court. Neither the Grand Committee appointed to report on the necessary 
Requisitions nor the Land Committee have as yet reported. 2 

88. Hugh Williamson to Richard Caswell. 1 

New York 28th March 1785. 
Sir, 

The inclosed for the Govr. of N. Carolina is forwarded to you, the 
Delegates from the State thinking it probable that the Delays to which it 
will be subjected in reaching the Hand of Govr. Martin may prove fatal 
to the Design. The Delegates are not informed of the Time on which the 
administration comes into your Hands but they presume that you will 
think fit to open the inclosed when it comes to Hand, and that you will 
detain it till you can act upon it or forward it with Dispatch to Govr. 
Martin as the Exegence of the Case may seem to require. 2 
I have the Honor to be with the utmost Consideration 

Sir your obedt. hble Servt. 

Hu Williamson 
His Excellency Rd. Caswell Esqr. 

89. William Hindman to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Paca). 1 

New- York March 30th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

The British Jany. Packet arrived here on Monday last having had 
eleven Weeks passage and of course brings no News. 

2 See nos. 29, 33, 53, 75, ante. The report on the requisition for 1785, brought 
in on Mar. 31, was further considered Apr. 5, 14, 15, 18, et seq. The reports of Mar. 31, 
Apr. 14, July 18, Sept. 24 and 27 are in the Journals. See also Bibliographical Notes, 
ibid., pp. 919, 921, 925, 927, 928; cf. nos. 91, 109, post. Concerning the land ordinance see 
nos. 33, 48, 63, ante, and no. 101, note IX, post. 

[88] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 The enclosures were probably the resolutions of Congress relative to the nego- 
tiation of a treaty with the Southern Indians, possibly including Thomson's letter and 
enclosures of Mar. 24 (no. 81, ante). See Caswell's communication to the assembly 
Nov. 21, 1785, and the list of public papers that accompanied it (N. C. State Recs., XVII. 
269-275). The letter from Williamson there mentioned (though without date) is 
probably this letter. 

An inquiry addressed to Dr. A. R. Newsome, secretary of the North Carolina Historical 
Commission, with regard to the date when Caswell succeeded Martin as governor, elicits 
the reply (Dec. 10, 1934) that he is unable to name the precise date. The last official 
act of Governor Martin found among the records is the proclamation of April 25, 1785 
(N. C. State Recs., XVII. 439), and the earliest official record of Caswell's occupancy 
of the office appears to be May 9. This is the date of the first entry in the " Journal of 
the Proceedings of Governor Caswell relating to the Public, Commencing May 1785 ", 
a small manuscript volume in possession of the commission. The assembly Journals of 
that period are not known to be in existence. 

[Sg^Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 149. 



78 Continental Congress 

The Senate of this State at their now sitting brought in a Bill for the 
Purpose of laying a Duty of 5 pr. Ct. agreeably to the Recommendation 
of Congress, which was rejected ; there were eight Members in Favor of 
the Bill and eleven against it — the other branch of their Legislature have 
not taken that Subject up since their present Session, it is said a large 
Majority of that House are opposed to the measure; the Friends to it 
flatter themselves a new Assembly will adopt the Recommendation. 1 
Rhode Island has passed the Shadow of a 5 pr. Ct. Impost, a Copy of 
which Law was in one of the papers I transmitted you 

90. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

March 31, '85. 
D'r Gerry, 

We have a Letter from J. Adams dated at Auteuil, 10th Jany., '85, 
which informs that by a Letter from his Bankers at Amsterdam, he learns 
that the last Loan is nearly complete. Of consequence we must have in 
Europe subject to the order of Congress a very considerable sum of 
money. 

Mr. Adams advises the opening of a new loan, but laments that he has 
put his hand heretofore to contracts which leave so heavy a load on his 
fellow citizens, and which will prove so injurious a drain on the indus- 
trious earnings of his countrymen. Somehow or other this is inconsistent. 
Mr. Adams laments our burdens, yet advises an increase of them. I do 
not know why we shd. borrow more money. 2 

Nothing new has taken place in Congress ; we are now warmly entered 
into the business of requisition for money, troops, etc. My Colleague 
the Doctor has been sick this week past, and we are unrepresented. How- 
ever I hope he will soon be out. Adieu. 

[P. S.] You will observe this to be a letter written in Congress, etc., 
etc. 8 

2 Cf. nos. 82, 84. ante, 109, 1 10, post. 
[90] ! Life of King, I. 84. 

2 Adams's letter of Jan. 10 is in his Works, VIII. 221, and in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, I. 472. Jay's report ( Apr. 1 ) on Adams's letter is ibid., p. 474. In a letter 
to Gerry Mar. 9 Adams alludes to the loan in Holland, then remarks : " I hope you have 
spent it wisely ; but whether you have or not you ought to take measures to pay the 
interest. My Dutch friends will throw me into one of their canals if you don't fulfil my 
engagements" {Life of Gerry, I. 477). Cf. his letter to Jay of the same date {Works, 
VIII. 226). See no. 29, note 2, ante. 

8 On Mar. 21 Congress took action on a committee report relative to Danish 
ordination of American candidates for holy orders in the Episcopal church, a report 
which had been presented on Dec. 9, 1784. The matter originated in a letter from John 
Adams to the President of Congress Apr. 22, 1784, wherein he mentioned that an 
American gentleman then in London had been refused ordination by the Bishop of 
London and the Archbishop of Canterbury unless he would take the oath of allegiance, 
etc. Adams had incidentally inquired of the Danish minister to the States General whether 
ordination might be had in Denmark, and that minister, Monsieur de St. Saphorin, had 
obtained the opinion of the Theological Faculty of Denmark, which was that American 
ministers of the Church of England might be consecrated by a bishop of the Danish 
Church, according to Danish rites. " But for the convenience of Americans, who are 
supposed not to know the Danish language, the latin language will be made use 1 



March, 1785 79 

91. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, March 31st, 1785. 
D'r Sir, 

I this moment reed, by post a short line from you without date inclosing 
the Edict of the French King regulating the commerce of the W. Indies. 2 
you mention that you have repeatedly written me since your leaving us, 
but the letter by this post is but the second that has come to hand. The 
post goes at one o'clock and I will add a few words whilst the House are 
settling the duties of the secretary of Congress, in a second reading of 
the ordinance. 3 New York yesterday reviewed their proposal to write to 
Mr. Wythe, proposing to him to come farther northward than Williams- 
burgh to hold our federal court. I remain in the same opinion on this 
subject as when the proposal was before made, and if we agree on the 
form of a letter, my colleague and I shall join. It will not be possible 
for the court to be held so soon as was expected. 4 

The business of a requisition for monies for 1785 is soon to be deter- 
mined on; the amount will be Three millions of Dol's. After some con- 
siderable opposition the G. Com'ee agreed to a payment of one Half 
only in real money, and the other Half in Facilities. The apportionment 
was made by the G. Com'ee conformably to the former apportionment 
of the 1,500,000 Dol's. 5 

the occasion. For the rest nothing will be exacted from the candidates, but a profession 
conformable to the articles of the English Church, omitting the oath called the Test, 
which prevents their being ordained by the English Bishops." This opinion was trans- 
mitted by Count Rosencrone to St. Saphorin, who in turn transmitted it to Adams. The 
action of Congress was to express " the high sense the United States in Congress assembled 
entertain of the liberal decision ", and to instruct the secretary for foreign affairs to trans- 
mit copies of the letters to the executives of the several states. Jay's letter of transmittal, 
dated Mar. 31, together with Adams's letter of Apr. 22, 1784, and enclosures, is in Pa. 
Arch., first ser., X. 433-435. Jay's letter is also in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 435, Adams's 
letter and enclosures are ibid., pp. 40-41. The latter are also in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, I. 453-455 ; and a letter from Jay to Adams Mar. 31, transmitting the act of 
Mar. 21, is ibid., II. 348. Adams's reply, May 30, is ibid., p. 365. Jay's letter to Adams, 
Mar. 31, is also in Correspondence of Jay, III. 140. Cf. no. 122, note 6, post. See also 
Richard Henry Lee to John Adams Oct. 24, 1785 (Letters, II. 400; Adams's Works, 
VIII. 333), and Jay to Adams, same date (ibid.). The person alluded to by Adams was 
none other than Mason L. Weems. For an account of this episode see McMaster, Hist, of 
U. S., I. 230. 

On Mar. 22, on a motion by Howell, a resolution was adopted respecting the distribu- 
tion of the works of Thomas Wilson, D. D., Bishop of Sodor and Man, presented by 
his son. In the secretary's "Memorandum Book" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 181) is a 
memorandum signed by a delegate of each of the states except Maryland and North 
Carolina, acknowledging receipt of the volumes. It is signed by David Howell, William 
Samuel Johnson, Charles Pinckney, Richard Henry Lee, John Beatty, Gunning Bed- 
ford, junr., Abiel Foster, John Lansing, junr., David Jackson, Rufus King, and John 
Habersham. Some of the signers were not in attendance in March (for instance, David 
Jackson attended about May 15, John Habersham May 30, and John Lansing on June 13), 
therefore the document was evidently signed at sundry times subsequent to the date of 
the resolution. Biographies of Bishop Wilson (1663-1755) and of his son, Dr. Thomas 
Wilson (1703-Apr. 15, 1784), are in Dictionary of National Biography. Bishop Wilson's 
collected works were published in 1781 (in two volumes) and reprinted in 1785 (in three 
volumes). 

[9 1] 1 Life of King, I. 85. 

2 Gerry's letter is in Life of King, I. 74. His reply to this letter is ibid., p. 89. 

3 See no. 66, ante, and nos. 94, 99, post. 

4 See nos. 37, 65, 79, 82, ante, 112, 117, post. 

5 See no. 87, note 2, ante. The requisition was reported Mar. 31. 



80 Continental Congress 

This is conceived to be hard on Virginia and New Jersey, too light 
on N. York, Pennsylvania, North Car., South Car. and Georgia — if any 
alteration takes place I shall urge the peculiarity of the situation of 
Massachusetts ; considering her former advances, her punctual redemption 
of the old money, her loss by the want of that punctuality in other states, 
her exhausted condition in relation to real specie, the want of a staple and 
the languishing appearance of her commerce, and hope that the statement 
may be such as rather to exonerate her from the proposed apportionment, 
than hold her forth as able to bear a part of those States' burdens who 
may conceive themselves overloaded. 

92. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York April 2d, 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the Honor to enclose to your Excellency the resolutions of 
Congress authorizing the comptrouler to appoint a 2d commiss'r for the 
settlement of the accounts of the state against the U. States, and instruct- 
ing him to furnish Mr. Dunscomb with a commission to act in the room 
of Mr. Turner, and those resolutions which are necessary for him in the 
discharge of the duties of the office. These two commiss'rs are to act 
independently of each other, in the districts assign'd them, and each to 
judge of the resolutions of Congress as they apply to the cases before 
them upon the same principle as if they held their appointments to differ- 
ent states; the only object in the additional appointment being that of 
expediting the settlement, a claim the larger states are entitled to from 
the consideration that such a portion of these debts when liquidated are 
admitted in payment of the late requisition. The resolution admiting of 
circumstantial evidence where the vouchers have been lost or under par- 
ticular circumstances have never been obtained, is so clear and explicit 
that neither Congress nor the delegation could conceive how a doubt 
could have been entertain'd by Mr. Turner respecting its import, we pre- 
sume it will be impossible for any other person to misunderstand it and 
therefore flatter ourseleves that those who may be now appointed, will 
proceed without delay in the accomplishment of this very important 
business. 2 Agreeably to a condition of the act of cession of the territory 
no. westward of the Ohio we lately mov'd that a commiss'r be appointed 
to liquidate the claims of the state arising under it. in the manner stipu- 
lated, and that the advances of the state for the purposes therein specified, 
be deducted out of the requisition for the present year. The motion wal 
committed and the report brought in authoriz'd the appointment of the 
commiss'r but took no notice of the claim for the deduction of the amount 
out of the requisition, we consider the claim of the state in that instance 
as standing upon very different ground from those debts due from the 

[ga] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 23, Mar. 10. Cf. no. 62, ante. 



April, 1785 



81 



U. States to individual States, wh. arose under the common occurrences 
of the war, and of course that the method of payment sho'd be different. 
This, from a solemn compact between the two parties deriv'd its force 
from their accession to it, and of course any limitation to the paym't not 
contain'd in the act itself, must be considerd as a contravention of it. we 
shall obtain the decision of Congress upon this point as soon as possible 
and transmit it to your Excellency. In the meantime we take the liberty 
to submit to you the propriety of suspending all further payments for the 
expences arising under that expedition 3 and are with sentiments of the 
highest respect and esteem yr. Excellency's most obt. and very humble 
servants 

S. Hardy 

Richard Henry Lee 
Will'm Grayson 
Jas. Monroe 



93. William Houstoun to the Governor of Georgia 
(Samuel Elbert). 1 

New York 2d April 1785. 
Sir, 

I a few days ago did myself the honor of forwarding to you the Journals 
of Congress as far as they were printed, and at the same time Mentioned 
every necessary occurrence that I could recollect, by this opportunity I 
send a resolve for holding a treaty with the southern Indians. 2 as you'l 
find the whole of this business fully recited in the resolve, and as my late 
letters and the Journals of Congress enclosed contained every Material 
Information respecting the proceedings of Congress, I shall now hasten 
to announce to you that the whole body of Congress are become so clamor- 
ous against our State, that I Shudder for the consequences; but, as my 
late letters have all gone fully into the particulars, I shall therefore now 
only assure you (as I think it my duty to state facts) that it is very seriously 
talked of, either to make a tryal of voting Georgia out of the Union or 
to fall upon some means of taking coercive measures against her. In 
truth I do not think at any one time since the existence of Georgia she 
has been in a worse situation than at present, her conduct is more particu- 
larly marked as for the last six weeks we have had the whole twelve States 
upon the floor, she stands alone only half represented, and as it is reported 
here that she is a rich and flourishing State, the most infamous motives 
are imputed to her. as we were much connected with the So. Indians I 
took the liberty to mention that I thought a Commissioner ought to be 
appointed from our State, but I was very severely replyed to for suggesting 

3 The motion, by Monroe, was on Feb. 25, the committee made a report Feb. 28, 
and on Apr. 13 Congress resolved to appoint a commissioner for the purpose, who, in con- 
junction with a commissioner appointed by the state, should appoint a third commissioner. 
The following Monday (Apr. 18) was set for the election, which did not however take 
place until Apr. 27, when John Smith was elected. See nos. 118, 123, 166, post. 
[93]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
2 See no. 78, note 2, ante. 



82 Continental Congress 

that the least countenance ought to be given to so unworthy a State, and 
one that had not taken a single foederal measure. 3 from your known 
patriotism I doubt not Sir, you must feel sensibly for the dreadful situ- 
ation of our Country with respect to her lost reputation in that quarter 
where it is her Interest, as well as her duty to stand high, and I can't help 
still hoping on your making such exertions as may redeem her. for my 
own part I am really so fully affected that I almost curse the hour that 
placed me in a situation to be privy to such cruel aspersions against that 
Country that gave me birth, and sir my breast is so wrung with reflecting 
on these things that I do not find myself competent to write with that 
precision that might be expected from me. With respect to my own 
immediate situation it is more distressing than I ever expected from my 
circumstances in life, I could be reduced to. 

I Sir, as well from a disinterested Zeal, God knows, of serving my 
country, as from the warm persuasions of those who paid more attention 
to public Matters than to my private Interest, agreed to leave a comfort- 
able place in the midst of my relations and other friends, where If I was 
not amassing wealth I was however making more than my daily expenccs 
and of course laying by money, to come to a strange land amongst 
Strangers, under a full confidence that my country whilst I was making 
every sacrifice in my power to serve her, would not abandon me and make 
the ungrateful return of giving me up as a Victim, but sir now so it is, 
for after I had exhausted every shilling of my own, altho' desirous of 
returning home, still from reasons that were convincing to me that I 
could be of much use to our state (as well by defending her from the 
very unfavourable attacks that were constantly made upon her and \vh. 
might have been followed w[it]h something more substantial, and keeping 
her Interest in the same forwardness as her Sister States, as many other 
things of much Conseq'ce) I was enduced to remain in Congress, thinking 
there could not be a doubt but that I should at least have my Expences 
remitted to me, and I from time to time have been borrowing money in 
this country for which I am now exceedingly pressed and so much in- 
volved that it is impossible for me to think of moving till I receive a 
pecuniary relief sufficient to extricate me and in the mean time must be 
perplexed in finding farther means for my support. I hope sir every 
principle of Justice as well as the respect due to the Character and office 
I bear, will induce you to transmit to me, as soon as can be, the necessary 
supplies for my immediate assistance — as much as will enable me to return 
home, which is my earnest desire, or if it should be the will of the State 
for me to remain longer, as will allow [me] to stay at least without dis- 
honour to myself or Country. You'l recollect sir that I have never rece'd 

• Cf. no. 162, post. The five commissioners appointed Mar. 21 were one each from 
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. The remarks in 
Congress derogatory of Georgia have not been preserved, but Houstoun doubtless gives 
the basis of them in his acknowledgement that the state " had not taken a single foederal 
measure". On Mar. 15 a proposal was offered that a deputation be sent to Rhode Island, 
New York, and Georgia " to urge on them the necessity of an immediate compliance with 
the recommendations of April 18th, 1783 ". 



April, 1785 83 

any thing from the state except a bill for a hundred and odd pounds 
before I left Savannah, it is therefore much in arrear to me. I shall be 
ready upon oath to give an account of the unavoidable expenditure I have 
been put to, and freely to loose such sums as I raised upon my private 
account and have spent in the Public Service. My case is singularly hard 
as every other State since the peace have made ample provision for their 
Delegates thinking it a matter of the first consequence and altho' some of 
them have four members on the floor they regularly send them their 
Supplies and keep them satisfied and at their ease, my office is doubly 
labourious as I am obliged to pay constant attention to public matters, 
and to employ such time as I can get in working for my daily support 
without any visible means. 

I appeal to the Journals if I have ever been absent from Congress one 
day since I first took my Seat notwithstanding all the difficulties I have 
had to struggle with. I feel a Consciousness that I have been the Instru- 
ment of preventing some very opprobrious measures, against the State, 
and that I saved her some thousands of dollars in fixing her last quota. 4 
With respect to the rest of my Conduct I am prepared, and desirous to 
meet the most accurate scrutiny. I should not sir have been thus prolix 
did I not conceive there must be some prejudices in the state agst. me or 
surely no Christian people could treat me so unworthyly. It is now four 
months since I have received any account of the proceedings of the state. 
I have by accident heard who was elected Governor. I have been able to 
collect from the Delegates of So. Carolina that they are in momentary 
expectation (from their Governors Letter) of receiving Instructions for 
an application to Congress in respect to the disputed Territory between 
the two States, as there was not the least prospect of the Commissioners 
being able to adjust this matter. 

I am aware your Honor will pay that due consideration to this very 
important point which it deserves. I shall only mention that the rooted 
prejudices in Congress agst. our State may subject us to disadvantage. 
And from the great number of members in Congress (more I believe 
than were ever known at any one time) spirited measures will certainly 
upon every occasion be adopted, and carried into Execution with force, as 
Congress are apprized that they never possessed so many resources, so 
much power, and so much consequence as at present. I shall now conclude 
with repeating and beseeching you to give serious attention to my situation, 
as it is a stake to me of the most alarming nature. 

I have the honor to be, with all due respect Your Honors most ob. servt. 

Wm. Houstoun 

N. B. Should there be no immediate opp'y from Georgia by which I 
can hear from you there are Vessels weekly sailing from Chas. Ton to 
both Philadelphia and New York. 

4 A grand committee, of which Houstoun was a member (see no. 29, note 2, ante), 
made a report Mar. 31 containing the proposed apportionment of a requisition of three 
million dollars. Georgia's quota was fixed in the report at 32,060 dollars, or slightly less 
than eleven-thousandths of the whole, approximately the usual ratio. If therefore Hous- 
toun saved his state " some thousands of dollars " it was in persuading the committee 
not to apply in this instance a higher ratio. See no. 109, note 4, post. 



84 Continental Congress 

94. Charles Thomson to Mrs. Hannah Thomson. 1 

Sunday April 3, 1785. 
Dear Hannah, 

The badness of the weather having as I suppose prevented the arrival 
of the post, I have not had the pleasure of a letter from you since that of 
the 29 of last month, N 16, which I acknowledged the receipt of, in my 
last of the 31st No. 28. 

I mentioned in that letter that I had come to a decision on the business 
of my Office. Though I had strong suspicions that the moving this matter 
originated in the ambition of one and the malice and resentment of 
another, I determined to let it take its course without deigning to interfere 
or to converse with any members upon it least I should seem to be courting 
favour. The Committee indeed to whom it was referred desiring to have 
my Opinion on the duties of the office and the necessity of erecting a new 
department, I gave it freely and subscribed my name, leaving them at full 
liberty to make what use of it or to shew it to whom they pleased. At 
the first opening of the business it appeared to be precipitated, and that 
though the plan of ambition might have been laid the measures of ac- 
complishing it had not been concerted or fully arranged. However being 
brought forward it gave an opportunity of sounding the disposition of 
the states, but this was done with so little skill in political manouvres as 
to turn the attention or at least direct their suspicions to an individual 
and to point out the measure as an object of ambition rather than of public 
utility, and the disposition of the house was shewn in such a way that 
whether the suspicions were well or ill founded, the feelings and pride of 
the individual must have been a good deal hurt. The plan and schemes of 
malice were deeper and better laid. Under pretence of collecting in one 
view the duties of the Office an Ordinance was prepared with such art 
that it should be rather for the purpose of establishing a new office than 
for ascertaining the powers of one already established. This would give 
an opportunity of a new election, and provided there was any probability 
of gratifying resentment in that way to say nothing of the term of con- 
tinuance in Office, but if that could not be obtained, then to introduce a 
clause for an annual election. This plan was deep laid, but much hurt by 
a sort of coalition with the other. However it was prosecuted with that 
persevering cunning and malice for which the author of it is distinguished. 
Unfortunately for him what he conceived a masterly stroke and which 
he thought to have given from a masked battery displayed the author in 
his true colours and produced an effect the very contrary of what he 
\\ ished. 2 

[94] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, Misc. (marked " N 29"). 
2 See nos. 66 (note 5), 91, ante. On Feb. II, 1784, Gerry had made a motion (sec- 
onded by Howell) for the appointment of a committee to revise the regulation of the depart- 
ment of the secretary of Congress, but that part of the motion stands erased in the Journals. 
This was probably an outcome of recent criticism; of the secretary's conduct of his office, 
Gerry being one of the chief critics (see for instance vol. VII., pp. 179, 256, 269, 422, 
461 ) . The revision of the department appears to have been dropped at that time but was 
resumed Jan. 31, 1785, when a committee (Howell, Monroe, Pinckney, Robert R. Li\ 
ton, and Gardner) was appointed "to revise the institution of the Office of the Secretary 



April, 1785 85 

I shall explain myself further when we have the pleasure of meeting. 
For as you observe I must reserve something for Conversation and not 
commit every thing to writing 

95. Samuel Hardy to William Short. 1 

New York 5th April, 1785. 
My dear Short, 

By Colo. Smith who is appointed Secretary of Legation to the Court 
of London I avail myself of an opportunity of writing. 

You will I doubt not before this reaches you, have heard of the adjourn- 
ment of Congress to this place. This event took place under an Ordinance 
pass'd the 24th of Decb'r at Trenton, which fixed the erection of a f oederal 
town on the banks of the Dellaware and the temporary residence of Con- 
gress in the intermediate time in this City. From your knowledge of the 
views of Virginia respecting a communication between the Potowmack 
and the Western Waters, you will readily conceive that the building a 
f oederal town on the banks of the Dellaware was not a very palatable 
Measure to her. It is one to which she is very far from being reconciled, 
and the uniform opposition which it consequently meets with from her 
Delegation and that of Maryland will I think ultimately defeat the 
Ordinance. 2 

The opening a land Office for the sale of Western territory to enable 
us to do justice to the public creditors and retrieve in some degree the 
public Credit is at this time one of the principal Objects under the Con- 
sideration of Congress. No plan is yet absolutely agreed on and it is 
difficult to conjecture what it will be. 3 .... 

of Congress ". This committee brought in an ordinance for that purpose Feb. 25, and 
Mar. 4 was assigned for its consideration. It does not appear however to have been taken 
up until Mar. 18, when a motion was made by Charles Pinckney, seconded by William 
Houstoun, to commit the report for the purpose of further consideration of the propriety 
of creating a secretary for the home department. The motion was negatived and the fur- 
ther consideration postponed until Mar. 22. The report found in the Journals under Feb. 25 
shows all references to the home department erased (there are also a few other erasures) ; 
but the report of Mar. 18 is not only without those erasures, but otherwise varies but 
little from the report of Feb. 25. The corrected report under Feb. 25 may accordingly be 
the later of the two. The ordinance was taken up for a second reading Mar. 31, when 
Pinckney again endeavored to have the consideration postponed and for the same purpose. 
His motion was seconded by his colleague, John Bull, and those two gave the only affirma- 
tive votes for the motion. The ordinance was then read a third time and adopted, the text 
being that of the report under Feb. 25, with the elisions as indicated. 

It is not clear who was the plotter alluded to by Thomson unless it was Pinckney, whose 
action suggests that he was seeking the creation of a home department. That Gerry, al- 
though not then in attendance, had a hand in the matter is more than probable. He had, 
as already pointed out, endeavored a year before to initiate a revision of the office, and 
the instructions to the Massachusetts delegates to move for an annual election of the 
secretary (see no. 82, note 4, ante, and nos. 99, 100, post) doubtless originated with him. 
It is of interest to observe that it was Gerry who drew the report of Mar. 22, 1777, 
establishing the department of the secretary of Congress. Concerning a revival of the idea 
of a home department see no. 985, post. 

[95] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., II. 65. 

2 See nos. 2, 5, 23, 25, 28, 33-38. 51-53, ante, and no. 101, note 12, post. 

3 See nos. 33, 48, 63, 72, ante, 98, 101, 105, no, 114, post. 

April 6 or thereabouts Hardy took leave until June (see no. 152, post). From Trenton 
Apr. 9, on his journey homeward, he wrote to Secretary Thomson recommending Dr. 



86 Continental Congress 

96. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York April the 7th 1785. 

.... Your recommendation of Messrs. Kirkland and Allen are very 
sufficient to procure for them my utmost favor. Have you observe [d] 
that I have personal knowledge of the deserts recommended — I have, but 
it was not necessary when I reflected who it was that recommended. 2 

I hope that we have gained your approbation by sending our Patriot 
friend Mr. J. Adams Minister to London. I hope also for good things 
from that Mission. Spain seems mal-affected to us, but as she has a 
commencing dispute with Great Britain about the Musquetto Shore, per- 
haps we may find in her Minister, expected here this Month, a more 
accommodating Spirit concerning the Mississippi than has yet appeared. 

97. Rufus King to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

New York, Ap'l 8th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honor to enclose for your examination sundry papers, 
relative to the consular appointment of Mr. R. Soderstrom ; If they throw 
any additional Light upon the subject, my purpose is answered. 2 

98. Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York, nth April, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress are greatly imbarrassed, by daily demands upon them ; 
and how we are to support the public credit, is a matter that requires 
great consideration : under these circumstances, I can't but say, it would 
have been as agreeable to me, if we had not received the instruction from 
the hon'ble Court respecting the proposed foederal buildings, which most 
require an additional requisition from the states, if the resolutions respect- 
ing them, are to be carried immediately into effect. 2 

Armstrong (Rev. James Francis Armstrong ?) for appointment as chaplain to Congress. 
The letter is in Hist. Soc of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

L96]»N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 346. 

2 Adams's letter, dated Mar. 24, commending to Lee's notice Rev. Samuel Kirkland 
and John Allan, is in Writings, IV. 312. Concerning the former see the Journals, Apr. 20, 
25, 26, June 1 ; concerning the latter see ibid., Apr. 21, June 6, 13, 17, Sept 29; cf. no. no, 
post. 

[97] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., f. 599; Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, HI. 799- 

2 See nos. 37, 58, ante. The enclosures (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 799- 
802) were: Soderstrom to Oliver Smith and Benjamin Hichborn Mar. 19; reply from 
Hichborn and Smith (without date) ; William Tudor to Rufus King Mar. 22, trans- 
mitting the two letters mentioned and discussing the affair. A letter from John Lowell 
to Jay Mar. 18, and Jay's reply May 10, also Jay to the governor of Massachusetts May 27, 
transmitting the resolution of Congress May 25, are ibid., pp. 802-804. See also Lowell 
to King Mar. 18, in Life of King, I. 78, and Gerry to King Mar. 28(18?), ibid,, \ 
Jay's letter of May 10 is also in Correspondence of Jay, III. 142. The original of I-owcll's 
letter of Mar. 18 to Jay is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 623, and sundry 
other letters, etc., pertaining to the case are ibid., XIII. 599-610. 

[98] * N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (unbound). 
2 See no. 82, ante. 



April, 1785 87 

A large western country now considered to be within the line of the 
U. S. and not within the boundaries of any one state, has taken up con- 
siderable time in Congress, and is likely to take up much more ; however, 
I am of opinion, that if it is managed well the sale of the lands will pay a 
considerable part of our national debt, but it will take up much time before 
it can be done ; and the public creditors press so hard, there is not much 
pleasure in being a member of Congress, unless a man can bear duning 
very well. 3 .... 



99. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, April nth, 1785. 
My Dear Sir, 

I thank you for your repeated favors since leaving us, they have satisfied 
curiosity and given instruction. Congress proceed with great harmony and 
moderation; the Report for 1500 men by way of requisition has been 
changed to a recommendation to the four States that raised 700 militia 
last year, to raise 700 men to serve for three years unless sooner dis- 
charged. A little firmness and a great deal said about candor and harmony 
brought the measure to adoption without much difficulty. 2 A new ordi- 
nance has past upon the report you must have with you, regulating the 
duties of the Secretary of Congress ; and I am preparing to introduce our 
instruction for the annual appointment of the Secretary — the measure is 
right, but I think will not pass. 3 .... 

100. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Secretary's Office, April 12th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting you the enclosed acts of the 1st, 7th 
and 1 2th Instant relative to the raising a body of Troops for the protection 
of the North Western frontiers, the defence of the Inhabitants against 
the depredations of the Indians, for preventing unwarrantable intrusions 
on lands belonging to the United States, and to guard the Public Stores. 

As the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased by a 
late Ordinance, 2 of which I enclose a Copy, to make it a part of the duty 
of the Secretary of Congress a to transmit to the several States all Acts, 
Ordinances, resolutions and recommendations of Congress and to cor- 
respond with the States for the purpose of receiving communications 

3 See no. 95, note 3, ante. 
[99] x Life of King, I. 87. 

2 See no. a8, ante, and nos. 100, 101, 118, 124, post. The main part of the measure, 
as indicated by King, was adopted Apr. 1 ; the apportionment was discussed Apr. 7 and 
adopted Apr. 12. 

8 See nos. 82 (note 4), 91, ante. If such a motion was at any time made it is not 
recorded ; but cf. no. 94, ante. 

[ioo] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 75; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton 
Papers, no. 5573; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 440; Clinton Papers, VIII. 382. 
2 The ordinance was adopted Mar. 31. See no. 94, ante. 



88 Continental Congress 

from them relative to the execution of the same ". I have embraced the 
earliest opportunity of forwarding the enclosed Acts and trust your 
Excellency will favour me with an account of the steps taken by your 
State for raising the quota assigned, that I may make report thereof 
conformably to the said Ordinance." 

The honor, peace and prosperity of our nation being objects very near 
my heart nothing will give me greater pleasure than frequent opportuni- 
ties of reporting to Congress the earnest and united endeavours of the 
several States to promote those great and desirable ends. 



101. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York April 12th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Fully impress'd with the disadvantages which must always arise 
to the States from a free intercourse with Canada I propos'd an instruction 
founded on the principles which my letter 2 contains, to the ministers 
authoriz'd to form the treaty with G. B : the committee have reported in 
favor of it, but the delicacy of our situation with that court, upon that 
of the posts and other subjects, is a consideration wh. inclines me to decline 
for the present bringing it to the view of Congress. The restrictions on 
this intercourse can only be carried into effect by possession of the posts 
and the more disadvantageous to them their surrender will be, the longer 
they may delay it. 8 

I inclose you the report of a committee in favor of a change of the first 
paragraph of the 9th of the articles of the confederation for the purpose of 
investing Congress with almost the entire regulation of the commerce of 
the Union, in exclusion of the particular States. I am inclin'd to think it 
will be best also to postpone this for the present. Its adoption must depend 
on the several Legislatures and to carry it with them the preferable way 
perhaps may be to let it stand as it now is. It hath been brought so far 
without a prejudice ag'nst it. If carried farther here prejudices will take 
place, at least I fear so, and those who oppose it here will in their states. 
The way then will be to present it to them in its present state, wh. may be 
effected by obtaining the permission of Congress for each delegation to 
take copies for that purpose. If this sho'd be its course I shall have time 

8 The letter was addressed "To his Excel'y the Govr. of Connecticut, the Gmr 
of New York, the Govr. of New Jersey and the Presdt. of Pennsylvania". Governor 
Ginton laid the letter before the New York legislature Apr. 14 (Clinton Papers. \ III. 
384). See no. 138, post. 

[xoi] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 67; Bancroft, 
Formation of the Constitution, I. 420. 

2 His letter to Jefferson July 20, 1784 (Jt'ritiiuis. I. 35). 

•Monroe's motion is in the Journals, Feb. 11. It was referred to the same com- 
mittee to whom his motion and that of Livingston (Feb. 1), relative to the western posts 
were referred, and the committee brought in a report Feb. 21. That part of the report 
to which Monroe here refers was not however further considered. With regard to the 
part pertaining to the western posts see nos. 23, 25, 33, 48, 09, ante. 



April, 1785 89 

for your answer and opinion on it. 4 a committee is appointed to revise 
and report what alterations if any are necessary in the instructions to 
the com'rs authorized to form commerc'l treaties. 5 what will be the result 
I know not, but the object of the appointmt. was, to change the principle 
upon wh. those existing were form'd, to instruct them to make the best 
bargain they can with each power, such an one as the advantages wh. they 
respectively derive from a commerc'l intercourse with us, entitle us to 
expect. If the convenience and advantage of the trade of either of these 
powers with us is equal, the conditions upon wh. it is conducted for 
commerc'l and other national purposes, sho'd be equal also, the object is 
to connect us with each power independently of other powers, and to 
extricate us from the complicated system with which their connections 
with each other is involv'd. a system which they will, understand, have 
been long accustom'd to the exercise of, and to turn to their particular 
advantages by every possible means of fraud and chicane. I doubt much 
the advantage of forming treaties for the present with any of the powers 
with whom you are authoriz'd to treat (the piratical States excepted), 
for what advantages can we give here in consideration of advantages there, 
or rather in consideration that they remove some of the restraints wh. 
now exist, which they do not at present possess, or possessing that we can 
deprive them of. The more I investigate this subject the more I am con- 
firm'd in this opinion, but all these embarrassments in the restrictions 
laid upon us by other powers, will I am persuaded have a good effect, they 
will operate more powerfully than the utmost force of argument co'd 
do for the strengthening our Govt. 

From Spain we expect a Mr. Gardoqui in quality of charge des affrs. 
all our measures with that court have of course ceas'd untill his arrival 
wh. is weekly expected. 6 whatever we have to transact with the Ct. of 
G. B. is committed to Mr. Adams, the formation of a commerc'l treaty 
only excepted, upon his removal from the Hague it was resolv'd to ap- 
point a minister in his room; Mr. Rutledge and Mr. R. H. Harrison C. 
Justice of Maryl'd are in nomination as is likewise Govr. Livingston of 
Jersey; it is not known whether either will serve. 7 my first letter will 

4 See no. 19, note 4, ante. The committee offered a report Feb. 16, and on 
Mar. 11 was instructed to prepare a circular letter to the states to accompany the pro- 
posed alteration. The report and the proposed circular letter are in the Journals, Mar. 28. 
On May 11 a petition of Boston merchants requesting the immediate interposition of Con- 
gress, under such powers as it possessed, was read and ordered to lie until Congress should 
take the report of the committee into consideration. This was not done until July 13. 
See nos. 118, 125, 153, 175, 182, 183, 194, 196, post. The report of Mar. 28 is also found 
in an appendix to Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 503, but there indicated as 
made in May. In his reply to Monroe, June 17, Jefferson touched briefly upon the subject : 
" I am also much pleased with the proposition to the states to invest Congress with the 
regulation of their trade, reserving its revenue to the states. I think it a happy idea, re- 
moving the only objection which could have been justly made to the proposition. The 
time too is the present, before the admission of the Western states." Writings, IV. 49. 

5 The committee was appointed Apr. 4, on a motion by Monroe, and a report was 
brought in June 2. See also the report of the secretary for foreign affairs May 18; cf. 
nos. 153, 156, 175, post. In his letter of June 17 (see note 4, above) Jefferson discusses 
at large the question of commercial treaties. 

6 See nos. 39, 40, 44, 101, 107, ante, 136, 137, 142, post. 

7 None of these nominations appears in the Journals this early. William Living- 
ston's nomination as minister to the United Netherlands is not mentioned in the Journals 



90 Continental Congress 

advise you of our embarrassment respecting a particular aff'r upon which 
you wrote me as you left Phila., an attention to which falls now within 
your province. It is unfortunate upon this acct. your cypher wo'd not 
expose it to you. you will please write me as soon as possible upon this 
subject. 8 you will receive instructions respecting the piratical states of 
Barbary. I fear from the information you give me they will not obtain 
fully the objects which they have in view, from what I have been able to 
collect here a treaty commenc'd on our own ground independent of any 
European power, will be most successful, since I am told they disregard 
the most powerful among them as much as they do us, and in that instance 
we might plead ignorance of the presents or amount, which would be 
acceptable to them. 8 It is agreed to raise 700 men for the purposes of 
guarding the publick stores and giving security to the frontier settlements 
of the States, at annapolis Mr. Gerry protested ag'nst the right of 
Congress to require men in time of peace; his conduct was approv'd by 
his State and the delegation instructed to oppose and protest upon all 
occasions ag'nst the exercise of the power. It is agreed that by requisition 
men cannot be rais'd upon a few States or less than the whole but under 
particular circumstances of some, and then under a particular modifica- 
tion. It was thought in this instance necessary to have them in the field, 
in a short time, to protect the surveyors of the land and as this considera- 
tion superseded the propriety of a requisit'n on the whole it was agreed 
to recommend it to the States, most contiguous, to raise them. 10 The land 
office is not yet open'd. a report drawn principally by Colo. Grayson will 
be deliver'd in in a few days, it deviates I believe essentially from the one 
at annapolis, but in what points I cannot say as I have not compar'd them 
together, the object of this is to have the lands survey'd previous to the 
sale, and after the survey to have the lots drawn for in the right of the 
States and sold in each by the loan officer at publick vendue for specie or 
certificates. 11 I shall transmit you the journals of Congress as far as thev 
are printed, they will give you at least the resolutions wh. determine the 

until June 23, when he was elected. His declination was received June 27, whereupon 
Rutledge was put in nomination and was elected July 5, but he in turn declined (ibid., 
Aug. 24). The Journals contain no record of Harrison's nomination at any time. Cf. 
no. 65, note 3, ante, and nos. 112, 124, 153, 161, 167, 169, 170, post. 

8 The allusion is to the Longchamps affair. Jefferson had remarked upon it in 
his letter to Monroe May 31, 1784 (Writings, III. 493), and Monroe had referred to it 
in his letter to Jefferson Nov. 1 (Writings, I. 40, and these Letters, vol. VII., no. 695). 
See no. 45, note 7, ante. In stating that the affair " falls now within your province " 
Monroe is no doubt alluding to the report found in the Journals under Apr. 27. From 
this it is inferred that the report, which is without date, was presented at some time 
between Mar. 29 and Apr. 12. See further nos. 117, 124, 191, post. 

9 The commissions, etc., were adopted Mar. 14. See also the Journals, Feb. 9, 
Mar. 4, 11. 

"' See the Journals. Feb. I, 21, Apr. 1, 7, 12, and no. 99, ante. For Gerry's position 
the year before sec vol. VII., pp. 542, 543, 604, 629. See also Jefferson's comment in the 
letter mentioned in note 8; cf. nos. 48, 99, ante, 118, 124, post. Thomas Stone of Maryland 
wrote to Monroe Mar. 18 : "I am not surprised that the requisitions for Troops should 
be opposed as I know how obstinate our acquaintance G. is in his opinions. It would give 
BM much uneasiness to hear he had succeeded." Library of Congress, Monroe Papers. 

11 See nos. 33, 48, 63, 95, 98, ante. 105, 106, no, 114, 129, 133, 140, post. 



April, 1/83 91 

erection of buildings at the falls of the Delaware and our intermediate 
residence here, our dependence for their erection at Georgetown had been 
on the Southern States and as soon as Congress conven'd we found they 
had given it up. all further opposition we therefore consider'd as useless. 
One hundred thousand dol'rs are appropriated to it. between Phila. and 
this place we were indifferent as a temporary residence ; we consider'd our 
State as no otherwise interested than as it might respect the delegates 
attending in Congress; upon foederal principles that this sho'd have the 
preference. It must have a good appearance for the foederal gov't to pay 
attention to the part, wh. hath suffer'd most, from the depredations of the 
war; add to this the province of Canada in possession at present of the 
fur-trade, the first exertion of the States must be to draw it thence and 
afterwards it may it [sic~\ take its direction thro' the Potowm'k or what- 
ever channel is open'd to it — but the 100,000 dol'rs are upon no fund, 
whether they are to be requir'd from the States or not will become the 
question. It wo'd be fortunate if a delay co'd take place. The conduct 
of our delegation at Trenton was founded upon an acqu[i]esscence with 
the voice of the majority of the Union, we acted together and voted 
unanimously upon every point respecting these measures. Grayson only 
was absent, be the event of this town as it may I think the proportion 
wh. will fall to our State will be well dispos'd of if [it] annexes the Idea 
of stability to our councils and measures. I co'd wish no more movements 
untill we take our final position. 12 .... 

Whether Congress will or not adjourn during the summer is uncertain. 
I think they sho'd not, but the fact is our application to business hath been 
so close during the winter that we wish a relaxation. I think congress 
shd. sit untill our affrs. with every for: power were finally and most 
amicably settld, and untill the commerce of the Union was properly regu- 
lated, the Confederacy might then stand secure — not be expos'd to injury 
or danger. Mr. Butler, Walcot and A. Lee were on the Indian treaty at 
fort Stanwix; the State of N. York also held a treaty; they quarrell'd 
with the com'rs of N. York and disgusted the State, this is attributed to 
one of those gent'n only. 13 Mr. Mercer hath been absent since we left 
Trenton and hath married Miss Sprigg. Mr. Read hath been less active 
than at Annapolis — he is sd. to be engag'd to K. Vanhorne of this place, 
he left this for S. Carolina 2 months since it is sd. to prepare for this 
event. 14 

A Mr. Carbonneau from the Kaskaskias petition'd Congress to take 
the people under their protection ; a committee hath reported wh. is so 

12 See no. 95, note 2, ante, and no. 160, post. In his reply Jefferson thus commented 
on the subject : I like your removal to N. York, and hope Congress will continue there 
and never execute their idea of building their federal town. Before it could be finished 
a change of Members in Congress or the admission of new states would remove them 
somewhere else. It is evident that when a sufficient number of the Western states come 
in they will remove it to George town. In the mean time it is our interest that it should 
remain where it is, and give no new pretensions to any other place." 

13 See vol. VII., pp. 584, 588, 606, 613. 

14 Read wrote from Charleston Apr. 26 to Dr. Benjamin Rush : " Our Friend 
Doct'r Ramsey who goes to Congress by this Conveyance will give you all the news 

13 



92 Continental Congress 

far adopted that a com'r be appointed to repair thither instructed etc 
Mr. A. Lee is in nomination. 18 the three com'rs of the treasury elected at 
Annapolis declin'd serving, in consequence of \vh. Gervais, Osgood and a 
Walter Livingston were elected. Gervais hath declin'd and Mr. A. Lee 
who hath upon every occasion been a candidate is ag'n in nomination. 
Mercer and himself were in nomination at Trenton and we gave the 
former the preference. The fact is we can get none better than Mr. A. L. 
and shall upon this occasion vote for him. 10 .... 

P. S. The alteration wh. this report proposes in the whole system of 
our govt, will be great, it is in fact a radical change of it. beg of you 
to write your sentiments fully on it. If it is carried it can only be by 
thorough investigation and a conviction carried to the minds of every 
citizen that it is right, the slower it moves on therefore in my opinion 
the better. 17 



102. John Sitgreaves to John Gray Blount. 1 

New York 13th April 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the pleasure to write you about a fortnight ago by the Brig 
[blank] Capt. Hollister for New Bern in which I thanked you for your 
favour of the 14th Ulto. which is the only one I have Received from you 
since I came here. 

I find from Mr. W. Blounts Letter to Mr. Spaight by S. Tinker that 
it is supposed I was then on my return home, it was this supposition I 
presume that induced them not to write me by him. 

From the pressing necessity for my return home I have submitted to 
the inconvenience of paying a very exorbitant Interest per Month for 
Money to enable me to pay my Expences here and on the road, (for I 

stirring with us and is much better acquainted with the political State of S: Carolina 
than I am, my long absence having Renderd me almost a Stranger in my own Country " 
(Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS.). He wrote to Wash- 
ington May 8 : "I did myself the honour of addressing a letter to you in the beginning 
of March from New York [no. 70, ante'] about which time my private affairs obliged 
me to make a Visit to this State. Shall however return to Congress about the beginning 
of June." Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

18 See the Journals, Feb. 9, 15, 21 (pp. 87, 89 n., 00 n.), Mar. 1 (p. 112 1 
14, Dec. 28; cf. ibid.. May 3, June 15, and Bibliographical Notes, p. 918, Cf. no. 45, n< 
ante, and no. 156, note 5, post. 

16 See nos. 57, 61, 66, 68, ante, 170, 191, 196, tost. Touching this matter Jeff< 
replied: " [I am sorry] to see a possibility of [A. L.'s being put into] the [treasury. He] 
has no [talents] for the [office,] and what [he has] will be [employed] in [rummaging 
old accounts] to [involve] you in [eternal war with R. M.] and [he] will in a short tunc 
[introduce] such [dissensions] into the [commission] as to [break it up]. If [he goes] 
00 the [other appointment to Kaskaskia he will produce a revolt] of that [settlement from] 
the [U. S.]." Bracketed words are written in cipher. R. M. is Robert Morris. See 
vols. VI. and VII., passim. 

17 Presumably the proposed amendment to the Articles of Confederation. See note 
4, above. 

[xoa] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 



April, 1785 93 

propose avoiding the Sea hereafter as much as I possibly can) the sooner 
therefore that remittances can be made me for repaying this Money 
(which will be something more than 200 £) the sooner shall I get rid 
of an intolerable piece of Usury. I am sure my dear Sir this hint to you 
for a Necessity for Money is wholly useless. I know that without it you 
wou'd do whatever was in your power but it is a subject which engrosses 
so much of my Attention that I cannot begin a Letter to you without 
touching on it. give me leave to observe to you that remittances will be 
more advantageously made to Philadelphia in (I believe) any kind of 
No. Carolina produce than to this place. Trade here is very confined and 
stagnate. 4 or 500 B'lls of Naval stores will any time reduce the price of 
them here 25 or more p Cent, there will be no difficulty in transferring 
Money from Phila. to New York and I think it is pretty certain that 
Markets are generally better at that place than at this, but shou'd you 
find it more convenient or proper to ship to New York on my Account I 
will beg the favor of you to address and consign the same to Messrs. 
Stevens and Hubbell Water Street No. 145. 

Inclosed are the two last papers one of which contains an Edict of 
the King of France which no doubt is interesting to every American 
Merchant to know. 2 

The prices current which I inclosed you in my last must not be relied 
on, our produce, particularly Naval stores is much lower now. 

please present my Compliments to Mrs. Blount etc. and Mr. Wm. 
Blount. I shou'd have written him was I not about leaving this soon 
therefore I cou'd write him nothing which I cou'd not with more pleasure 
tell him in person very shortly. I shall if I can conveniently leave this 
about the 20 of this Month and will make no considerable Delay on the 
road. You shall hear from me at Philadelphia if any thing offers worth 
Communicating. 

103. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams. 1 

New York April 14, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Col. Smith 2 can give you so accurate a state of things here 
that it seems not necessary for me to enlarge on them — but with repect to 
this Gentleman, and his appointment, permit me to observe, that his 
established reputation is that of a Man of honor, of sense, and of very 
tried attachment to the success of our Union. His appointment (I mean 
the office) seems as far as I have been able to investigate it, from a wish 

2 The New York Gazetteer and Country Journal of Tuesday, April 12, 1785, con- 
tains "An Edict of his Most Christian Majesty's Council of State, extracted from the State 
Register of August 30, 1784", containing nineteen articles relative to foreigners trading 
to France's American colonies. The edict had previously appeared in Philadelphia papers : 
in the Pennsylvania Packet March 9, in the Pennsylvania Journal March 12, and in the 
Pennsylvania Gazette March 16. The citation to the New York paper has been furnished 
by the kindness of Miss Dorothy C. Barck, head of the reference department of the New 
York Historical Society. 

[x©S] x Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 347; Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 Col. William Stephens Smith, appointed secretary to the London legation Mar. 1. 
See nos. 65, 70, ante, and no. 126, post. 



94 Continental Congress 

to show respect to the Court of London by an exact observance of all 
forms in such cases practised. 

I believe that Congress will adjourn (leaving a Committee of the 
States) In June next. 3 .... 



104. The Secretary of Congress to the President of 
New Hampshire and the Governor of Massachusetts. 1 

Secretary's Office April 15th, 1785. 
Sir, 

Herewith you will receive an act of Congress on a petition of Mr. 
Jonathan Eddy and others, refugees from Nova Scotia, which your 
Kxcellency will be pleased to recommend to the attention of the legislature 
of your State and communicate to the persons co n cer n ed. 1 

I also enclose an act of the 13th empowering States which have settled 
with their respective lines on the principles of the act enclosed of Juni 
1784, to charge the United States with the payments made, provided the 
services shall not have been settled for by the paymaster general. 8 .... 

105. Rn is King to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York 15th Ap. 1785. 
dear Sir, 

the best return in my power to make you for your ingenious com- 
munications on the mode of disposing of the western territory, is to 
inclose for your examination the form of an ordinance reported to 
congress on the subject, you will find thereby that your ideas have had 
weight with the committee who reported this ordinance; and I have only 
to add that I shall hold myself particularly obliged by your farther com- 
munications on this subject." I likewise inclose you the report of a com- 
mittee on a motion for the exclusion of slavery from the new states, your 
Ideas on this unjustifiable practice, are so just that It would l>e impossible 
to differ from them. 3 .... 

*Cf. nos. 101, 112, ante, 126, 133, 137, 151, 156, 161, 196, post. 
[104] 1 Library of Congress, » Letter-Book, p. 76. 

2 The petition ot Jonathan Eddy and others, dated at Boston, Feb. 25, 1784, was 
presented in Congress May 12 and referred to the Committee of the States, in which it 
was read July 26 and ordered to lie. A committee report on the petition was brought in 
Mar. 28 and acted upon Apr. 13. 

8 The matter of this second paragraph, in nearly the same langua.i: :he 

same day sent to the other eleven states (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 7; I .ib., 

Clinton Papers, no. 5574; I'a. Arch., first ser.. X. 44^; .V. C". State Recs.. X\ 
A third paragraph in this letter is nearly identical with the second paragraph of the 
letter of Apr. 12 (no. 100, ante), "As the United States .... said ordinance '*. 

Lios] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of Rufus King; Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, 
XVIII. 226; Life of King, I. 46; Pickering. Life of Pickering, I. MX. 

2 See no. 106, post. Pickering's letter t<> which Kins is replying i> dated Mar. 8, 
1785. Extracts are found in Life of Pickering, I. 506-510. Pickering's reply t<> this letter, 
Apr. 30, is in Life of King, I. 91. 

* King's motion was made Mar. 16 and referred to King, Howell, and Ellery. 
The committee reported Apr. 6, and Apr. 14 was assigned for ii^ consideration With but 
little alteration, except for the omission of the phrase " after the year 1800 of the Christ 






April, 1785 95 

106. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York Ap'l 15th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the honor of writing to you by post the 10th of March 
last 2 in answer to your favor of the 22d of January, and I hope my letter 
has before this got safe to hand ; 

On my being appointed one of the Comm'ee for draughting the 
Ordinance for ascertaining the mode of disposing of lands in the Western 
territory, the President was kind enough to furnish me with an extract 
of your letter to him on the subject of the back Country, 3 which now 
induces me to conclude it will be agreeable to you to be informed of the 
further progress of this important business 

The Ordnance was reported to Congress three days ago, and ordered to 
be printed, and I now take the earliest opportunity of sending you a copy; 
the idea of a sale by public Vendue, in such large quantities, appears at 
first view eccentric, and objectionable; I shall therefore mention to you 
the reasons which those who are advocates for the measure offer in it's 
support ; They say this cannot be avoided with't affording an undue ad- 
vantage to those whose contiguity to the territory has given them an 
opportunity of investigating the qualities of the land; That there cer- 
tainly must be a difference in the value of the lands in different parts of 
the country, and that this difference cannot be ascertained with't an actual 
survey in the first instance and a sale by competition in the next. 

That with respect to the quantity of land offered for sale in a township, 
it will not have the effects of injuring the poorer class of people, or of 
establishing monopolies in speculators and ingrossers : That experience is 
directly agt. the inference, for that the Eastern States, where lands are 
more equally divided than in any other part of the Continent were gen- 
erally settled in that manner ; That the idea of a township with the temp- 
tation of a support for religion and education, holds forth an inducement 
for neighborhoods of the same religious sentiments to confederate for 
the purpose of purchasing and settling together ; That the Southern mode 
would defeat this end by introducing the idea of indiscriminate locations 
and settlements, which would have a tendency to destroy all those induce- 
ments to emigration which are derived from friendships, religion and 
relative connections; That the same consequence would result from sales 
in small quantities under the present plan; 

That the advantages of an equal representation, the effect of laying 
off the country in this manner ; the exemption from controversy on 

era", King's motion followed the language of Jefferson's proposition of March, 1784. The 
committee restored the omission and added a proviso for the recovery of fugitive slaves. 
Cf. nos. 1 18, 698, post. 

[ 1 06] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXIV. 121 ; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 425. 

2 No. 72, ante. 

3 Washington's letter to Richard Henry Lee Mar. 15 (see no. 107, note 2, post) ; 
cf. his letter to Lee Dec. 14, 1784 (Writings, ed. Ford, X. 424, ed. Sparks, IX. 70) ; see also 
vol. VII., p. 636. 



9G Continental Congress 

account of bounds to the latest ages : the fertility of the lands ; the facili- 
ties of communication with the Atlantic through a variety of channels, 
as also with the British and Spaniards ; the fur and peltry trade ; and 
the right of forming free governments for themselves, must solicit emi- 
grants from all parts of the world, and ensure a settlement of the country 
in the most rapid manner; That speculators and ingrossers, if they pur- 
chase the lands in the first instance cannot long retain them, on account 
of the high price they will be obliged to give and the consequent loss of 
interest while remaining in their hands uncultivated ; 

That if they however should make money by ingrossing, the great 
design of the land office is answered, which is revenue ; and that this 
cannot affect any but European emigrants or those who were not at hand 
to purchase in the first instance; that if it is an evil, it will cure itself, 
which has been the case in Lincoln County Virginia, where the lands 
were first in the hands of Monopolists: but who were forced to part 
with them from a regard to the general defense. 

That the expence and delay would be too great to divide the territory 
into fractional parts by actual surveys, and if this is not done sales at 
public vendue can not be made, as with't a previous knowledge of the 
quality of the lands no comparative estimate can be form'd between 
different undivided moieties ; 

That the offering a small number of townships for sale at a time is an 
answer to the objection on account of delay and at the same time it pre- 
vents the price from being diminished on acct. of the Markets being 
overstocked. 

That the present plan excludes all the formalities of warrants entries 
locations returns and caveats, as the first and last process is a deed. 

That it supersedes the necessity of courts for the determination of 
disputes, as well as that of creating new officers for carrying the plan 
into execution ; that the mode of laying out the same in squares is attended 
with the least possible expense, there being only two sides of the square 
to run in almost all cases. That the expense will be repaid to the Con- 
tinent is a tenfold ratio, by preventing fraud in the Surveyors. 

That the drawing for the townships and sending them on to the different 
States is conformable to the principles of the government, one State 
having an equal right to the best lands at its market with the other, as also 
of disposing of it's public securities in that way. 

That if the Country is to be settled out of the bowels of the Atlantic 
States it is but fair the idea of each State's contributing it's proporti< i 
emigrants should be countenanced by measures operating for that purpose. 

That if the plan should be found by experience to be wrong, it can 
easily be altered by reducing the quantities and multiplying the ran I 

These were the principal reasonings on the Comm'ee in favor of the 
measure and on which it would give me great Satisfaction to have your 
sentiments, as it involves consequences of the most extensive nature, and 
is still liable to be rejected altogether by Congress, or to be so altered as to 
clear it of the exceptionable parts, perhaps the present draught might have 
been less objectionable, if we had all have had the same views. Some 



April, 1785 97 

gentlemen looked upon it as a matter of revenue only and that it was true 
policy to get the money with't parting with inhabitants to populate the 
Country, and thereby prevent the lands in the original states from depre- 
ciating. Others (I think) were afraid of an interference with the lands 
now at market in the individual States, part of the Eastern Gentlemen 
wish to have the lands sold in such a manner as to suit their own people 
who may chuse to emigrate, of which I believe there will be great numbers 
particularly from Connecticut: But others are apprehensive of the con- 
sequences which may result from the new States taking their position in 
the Confederacy. They perhaps wish that this event may be delayed as 
long as possible. Seven hundred men are agreed on, in Congress; to be 
raised for the purpose of protecting the settlers on the Western frontiers 
and preventing unwarrantable intrusions on the public lands; and for 
guarding the public stores. 

I must now apologize to you for the length of this letter; the subject 
appeared to me of the greatest consequence and I was desirous you might 
have the fullest information thereon; As the communicating a report of 
a Comm'ee while under the deliberation of Congress is agt. rule, I shall 
thank you to retain the possession of it yourself. 4 



107. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York, April 18, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I should before this have thanked you for your favour of March 15th, 2 
if I had not been in daily expectation that the arrival of the packets would 
bring us some intelligence from Europe worth communicating to you; 
the February packet has but just come in after a passage of eight weeks, 
and neither she or other vessels in short passages, bring us any thing 
interesting. War or peace in Europe, hangs yet in doubtful balance ; both 

4 See nos. 33, 48, 63, 95, 98, 101, 105, ante, 107-109, 112, 114-116, 118-125, 129, 
130, 132, 133, 136-143, 151, post. An ordinance for locating and disposing of the lands in 
the western territory had a first reading Mar. 4, and Tuesday Mar. 8 was assigned for 
the second reading. It was not however taken up for the second reading until Mar. 16, 
when it was referred to a grand committee. Of this committee Grayson was made a 
member. The committee reported a modified ordinance Apr. 12 (it is printed in the 
Journals under that date), and Apr. 14 was assigned for its consideration. It was now 
considered a new ordinance for on Apr. 14 it was " read a first time " and " to-morrow " 
was assigned for a second reading. If it received the second reading Apr. 15 it is not on 
record (see however the Journals, p. 268 n.), but it was under consideration Apr. 20, 22, 
23, and 26, and under that date the ordinance as it then stood, considerably altered in 
content, is again spread upon the Journals. The debate continued through Apr. 27 and 28, 
and on the 29th it was resolved that a fuller representation would be necessary for its 
completion. Nevertheless it was debated in committee of the whole May 2 and referred 
back to Congress, where it was debated during the next four days, being " read a second 
time " May 5. On May 6 " Congress proceeded in the third reading " of the ordinance 
and in further debate, and again " proceeded in the third reading " May 18, 19, and 20. On 
the 20th, " the same being gone through ", it was passed. 

[107] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 348; Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 63. 

2 Washington's letter to Lee Mar. 15 is in Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, II. 272, 
and in Washington's Letter-Book, p. 48. It is printed in Writings (ed. Ford), X. 447. 
See no. 106, note 3, ante. 



98 Continental Congress 

parties arming with assiduity, and nothing determined upon. Mr. John 
Adams, is sent plenipotentiary to the court of London, and Mr. Jefferson 
is the minister at Versailles, Dr. Franklin having leave, at his own request, 
to retire. Returning appearances of good humour, and a proposition first 
made by the British court, to treat of our differences in London, has in- 
duced hopes of an amicable adjustment of disputes. Mr. Gardoque is 
not arrived, but expected about the last of this month from the Havana, 
to which place he went from Spain previous to his coming here. If the 
commenced bickering between Madrid and London on the Musquito shore 
should go on, we may probably have easier work with both courts in our 
business with them. 8 I have the honour to enclose you the report of a 
respectable committee on the subject of selling the western lands, which 
has not yet been acted upon, though it speedily will.' What changes may 
be made in this plan before it finally passes, cannot yet be told, but probably 
there will be some. Your idea of settling a state at a time, would most 
certainly be the wisest and best, if the excessive rage for taking lands 
there could be possibly restrained. But really it seems that either Congress 
must sell quickly, or possession will be so taken as to render doubtful this 
fine fund for extinguishing the public debt. It has been impossible to get 
a vote for more than seven hundred men to garrison all the posts to be 
fixed in the trans-Alleghanian country, from north to south ; a number 
very inadequate, I fear, to the purpose of even suppressing illegal tres- 
passes upon the western lands 



1 08. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

1 8th April 17S5. 
My Dear Sir, 

I inclose you the Gazettes which contain all the public information 
received by the Late Packets. We are going on with moderation in 
congress. Land Office and Requisition now occupy us. 2 

.... Osgood is here; he and Livingston have appointed our friend 
Duer Secretary to the board of treasury and he has accepted. Osgood 
lives with Duer. 8 .... 

P. S. I inclose you the New York Taper of this Date '— you will find 
this State have opened a Land Office to sell the Territory in dispute be- 

8 See no. 101, note 6, ante. 
4 See no. 106, ante. 
[108]' N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of Rufus King; Life of King, I. 88 (postscript only). 

2 Concerning the land ordinance see no. 106, ante ; concerning requisitions see 
no. 109, post. 

3 See nos. 79, 82, ante . 

4 The Library of Congress possesses no New York paper of this date, but the 
editor is informed by Miss Dorothy C. Barck, head of the reference department of the 
New York Historical Society, that Loudon's New York Packet prints on the front page 
of the issue of April 18, 1785, the New York "Act to facilitate the Settlement of the Waste 
and Unappropriated Lauds within this state", passed April 11, 1785, which constituted the 
governor and other state officials commissioners of the land office, and provided for their 
advertising the land, etc. The act contains no reference to Massachusetts. 



April, 1785 99 

tween them and us. It is a very unfair mode of proceedure. If the Legis- 
lature of Mass. was now sitting I should advise the passing Resolve 
directing the Govr. to issue a Proclamation stating the Dispute between 
the two States, and declaring that in case Mass. recovered the territory 
she would not hold herself bound to quiet such persons in their Titles as 
slid, purchase after such Notice. 

I have it in contemplation to move congress to pass some Resolve on 
the Subject — if passed or negatived I would publish it, and this would 
prevent a rapid sale. 5 R. K. 



109. William Hindman to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Paca). 1 

New-York April 18th 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

.... You will herewith receive the Report of the Committee on the 
Lands belonging to the United States, as this is the only one I am at 
present possessed of, must beg the Favor of You to shew it to Mr. S. 
Chase, having promised to transmit him one. 2 should You choose to be- 
come an Adventurer in that Country, the most advisable Method will be 
to purchase final settlement Certificates, they are to be got here at 2/9 
in the pound, and think it probable they will not immediately rise, as the 
Senate of this State on an Addition of two new Members made a second 
Attempt to carry the 5 pr. Ct. Impost recommended by Congress, which 
was rejected by a greater Majority than before, these two being against it. 8 

I expect Congress will take up the Land Report in a few Days, they 
are at present engaged in the Report on the Requisition for Supplies, the 
Committee in this Apportionment adopted the same as on the Recom- 
mendation to the States to provide supplementary Funds for the 1,500,000. 
as this Report now stands We pay only iof of the whole, which is a 
much less proportion than heretofore required of our State. Virginia 
will oppose it, her Ratio being increased, but think it probable she will 
be alone. 4 

P. S. No Minister as yet chosen for the Hague. 

5 The motion does not appear to have been made. 
[109] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 145. 

2 See no. 106, ante. 

3 See nos. 82, 84, 89, ante, and no. no, post. 

4 See nos. 75, 87, 91, 93, ante, the Journals, Mar. 31, Apr. 5, 14, 15, 18; also nos. 
115, 118, 122, 124, 125, 132, 133, 156, 162, 173, post. After Apr. 18 requisitions languished 
for nearly two months, thrust to one side mainly by the land ordinance (see no. 106, note 6. 
ante). 



100 Continental Congress 

no. William Samuel Johnson to Roger Sherman. 1 

New York April 20th 178=;. 
D'rS'r, 

I am sorry to hear by Genl. Woolcot, that you are not coming to 
N. York, as Capt. Wooster gave me to expect you would, about this time. 
I extremely want your Opinion and Advice relative to the pursuing Mrs. 
Woosters Petition before Congress. The difficulty is this. Congress have 
very lately upon the Petition of Genl. Thomas's Widdow of Massachu- 
setts, fully explain'd the Doubt there was, whether he was entitled to 
Brigadiers or Colonel's Pay, deciding it in favor of the former. Thus, 
one of the grounds of Mrs. Wooster's Petition is effectually remov'd. 
What remains, is, only that the State of Connecticut will not pay it, tho' 
the Requisition of Congress is as full as they can make it. if they sho'd 
take up the subject again — And is it to be presumed that Congress will 
take it upon themselves, merely because Connecticut will not do what 
she ought? Xay will the Finances of the United States admit of such a 
measure? Yet more, can they do it when the other States have actually 
taken upon themselves, and are now in the Payment, of similar demands, 
as N York of Mrs. Montgomery, N. Jersey of Mrs. Barber, etc. etc. ? 
Would not this derange everything? Will not the matter now stand 
solely upon the ground, and appear in the light, of a complaint against 
the State? If so, can I advocate it? Will not everything of this Nature 
come with a very 111 Grace from a Delegate of the State? Finally, for I 
dare not presume to ask any more Questions, Is it not most adviseable. 
since Congress have explained the only doubt there was in the Case, and 
that the Session of the Gen'll Assembly is so near, for Mrs. Wooster to 
apply once more to the Assembly before she pursues the matter further 
here. 2 Your sentiments upon this subject would give great relief to, and 
extremely oblige 

D'r S'r Yr. most obedient humble Servant 
Wm. Saml. Jo 1 1 iraOM 

[P. S.] Genl. Woolcot will tell you our situation here, since the Blow 
we have reed, from N York. I am loath to revive the Idea of so severe 
and fatal a defeat. 8 

After I had written the within, I had the Honor to receive your favour 
of the 1 2th Inst't. 4 That I had nothing agreeable to acquaint you with, 
must be my Apology for not writing, and I presumed you had long since 
heard that N York had, in Senate, finally rejected the 5 pr. Cent: Impost. 

[no] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., C 81 B 160. A rough draft of the letter, with considerable 
variations, is in the Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers. It is written on the blank spaces 
of a letter of Roger Sherman, dated Apr. 12. 

2 See the Journals, May 3, 4, July 5, 8, and Sherman's letter of Apr. 12 (note 4. 
below). Mrs. Wooster's petition is dated Mar. 14 but its presentation in Congress is not 
mentioned until May 4. Concerning the case of Mrs. Hannah Thomas, widow of General 
Thomas, see the Journals, July 18, 19, 1781. 

•The allusion is to the rejection by New York of the impost measure. See 
nos. 45, 82, 84, 89, ante. 

* Sherman's letter is in Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 345- 



April, 1785 101 

It will not be resumed again this Year. Georgia too has neglected to 
grant it. In consequence whereof a most respectable Grand Jury of the 
State, have, before their Supreme Court, Indicted the whole Legislature 
of a high handed Misdemeanor. 5 This however, will produce no im- 
mediate benefit to the United States, and their Credit must for the present 
languish. Our only actual resource is the Western Territory, (for I 
consider Requisitions as extremely precarious) this we have been dili- 
gently at work upon for some time, and I hope shall now soon complete. 
I think I may assure you, it will be settled to sell in Townships, of about 
7 Mile Square, to be divided for purpose of sale to the several States, to 
be disposed of at Auction, fixing however a price, say 6/ pr. Acre, below 
which it shall not go — The Army also to share in Townships. 6 I could 
wish the plan you propose with respect to the Impost could take place, but 
it is so bold and decided a measure that I fear we are not at present 
sufficiently in Spirits to adopt it. The Cession of Connecticut has been 
long depending before a Committee of 5, most of whom attend with 
reluctance, but when they meet contest it with vigour. It will nevertheless 
be pushed, if possible, to a decision. 7 The Massachusetts Cession has been 

5 Cf. nos. 317, 320, post. Following is the presentment to which Johnson alludes 
(Gazette of the State of Georgia, March 10, 1785) : 

" GEORGIA. 

The PRESENTMENTS of the Grand Jury for the County of Chatham, in the State 
aforesaid, at a Superior Court begun and holden at Savannah, on Tuesday the 1st, Wednes- 
day the 2d, Thursday the 3d, Friday the 4th, and Saturday the 5th Days of March, 1785, 
before the Honourable George Walton, Esquire, Chief Justice, and the Honourable Joseph 
Clay, William O'Bryen, and William Gibbons, Esquires, Assistant Judges. 

" We the Grand Jury for the county aforesaid upon our oaths present : 1. We present, as 
a very great grievance, the inattention of the Honourable the Legislature to the requisi- 
tion made by the Honourable the Congress of the United States for laying an impost of 
five per cent, on goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into this state, or devising some 
other mode adequate to the establishment of a fund for the support of the publick credit, and 
payment of that part of the debt which we may owe to those friendly powers who, on the 
faith of the States, supported us during the Revolution, and enabled us to obtain our 
glorious Independence. The requisition of Congress is founded in equity and justice, nor 
can we reasonably expect to enjoy the advantages of the Union, unless we contribute to 
its support. We therefore apprehend a noncompliance on the part of our state will disgrace 
us as a people, and ultimately tend to destroy our credit at home and abroad." Other pre- 
sentments followed. 

Chief Justice Walton's charge to the grand jury of Chatham (ibid.) is largely an argu- 
ment in behalf of the adoption of the Continental impost. " No state ", he remarks, " can ex- 
pect the advantages of the Union, without contributing to its support ; and upon that 
principle, it is to be lamented, that the Legislature of this state has so long delayed to grant 
the duty required by Congress, and which has been come into by most of the other states." 

In early April the chief justice gave a similar charge to the grand jury of the county of 
Richmond, and a few days later to that of Liberty County. The Richmond County grand 
jury responded in this manner : " We present as a great grievance, the neglect and inatten- 
tion of the Legislature to the former presentments of this and every other county in the 
state." The grand jury of Liberty County presented as a grievance the failure of the leg- 
islature to establish a fund to support the credit of the state or to comply with the requi- 
sition of Congress for an impost act, " and we do earnestly recommend that the Honorable 
the Legislature will take the matter seriously into consideration at their next meeting, and 
to devise the most speedy and effectual mode to answer the purpose ". The Richmond 
County items are in the issue of the Gazette for April 14, those of Liberty County in that 
of April 21. 

6 See nos. 95, 98, 105, 106 (note 4), ante. 

7 See no. 45, ante, and no. 133, post. 



102 Continental Congress 

just now accepted which is no unfavourable circumstance. 8 The wish is 
that we would Cede the whole of our right, or at least as far as New York 
and Massachusetts have done vie : to a Line twenty Miles West of the 
Streight of Niagara. But I am of Opinion that if Connecticut proceeds 
in the affair with firmness and prudence, she may yet retain the Boundary 
she has proposed, but something must be determined upon soon, for the 
reserved Territory will be included in the Sale proposed by Congress, 
except that part of it reserved by the Indians. The riming the Western 
Line of Pensilvania, which is to be done this Spring, will give us clearer, 
and more determinate Ideas of that Country. The Case of Vermont has 
not been bro't before Congress, owing to its having been depending all 
Winter before the Legislature of this State, under a general Expectation, 
which had taken place, that they would declare them Independent and 
request Congress to receive them into the Union. It appears now, within 
a few days, that it will not be done this Session, and why Vermont is not 
here to pursue the matter in Congress I know not.' 

We have pretty certain Intelligence that the Western Inhabitants of 
Virginia, and of North Carolina, are erecting themselves into separate 
and Independent States. This renders it extremely necessary that the 
United States sho'd take immediate Care of their Western Territory. 
Seven hundred Men are Recommended to be rais'd for this, and other 
purposes. I wish this Number may be sufficient. 10 Mr. Kirkland has just 
now been with me. He appears to be a worthy, and well informed Man, 
and I sincerely wish he could be reestablished among the Indians. I shall 
certainly do all in my power to give facility and effect to his applications 
to Congress. 11 But the feeble Finances of the Unites States give a check 
to every liberal and enlarged Idea. They damp the Ardor of the -enerous, 
and are an effectual screen for the illiberal and contracted. 1 do not de- 
spair, however, that something may be done. Coll. Cook leaves us to- 
morrow. I beg your Influence to send on some other Gentlemen in the 
Delegation, as well to supply his place, as to relieve me, that I may. about 
the middle of May, attend the Gen'll Assembly, where 1 have business of 
Importance, for a few days; after which, it it he tho't expedient, 1 will 
without hesitation, return here again and am with the sincerest Esteem 
and Respect 

D'r S'r Yr. most obedient humble Servant 

Wm. Saml. Johnson. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 5, 18, 19, May 20, 23, and no. 37, ante. 
See vol. VII.. passim. 

10 See no. 10, ante, and nos. 127 (note 2), 142, 146, post. Concerning the troops 
see nos. 09, 101, ant,-. 

11 See no. 96, ante. 



April, 1785 103 

in. The Secretary of Congress to George Washington. 1 

Philadelphia, 22 April, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I received yesterday your letter of the 5. and as the subject therein 
referred to belongs to the department of foreign affairs, I have trans- 
mitted it to Mr. Jay. 

I have no doubt but the Minister who is to negotiate with the court of 
London will have occasion for the list; but as it would not be safe to 
trust a paper of such importance to the common conveyance by the post, 
and as it is proper that you should keep either the original or a copy to 
prevent a chasm in your files, I have taken the liberty of suggesting to 
Mr. Jay the propriety of sending one of his clerks to take a copy and to 
bring up either it or the original leaving the other with you. 2 

The last time I had the pleasure of seeing you I entertained, and I 
believe expressed a fond hope that measures would speedily be adopted to 
enable you, without much trouble and without putting you to any expense, 
to have your files arranged copied and secured so as to be preserved from 
danger or accident. I consider them as invaluable documents from which 
future historians will derive light and knowledge. I consider it as a most 
fortunate circumstance that through all your dangers and difficulties you 
have happily preserved them entire. And although the adjournment 
which took place last Summer, and the subsequent removals since the 
meeting in November have prevented Congress from adopting the mea- 
sures I wished, yet I trust they will at a convenient time attend to the 
Subject, and take proper steps for preserving so invaluable a treasure. 

I am now busily employed in preparations for the removal of my family 
to New york. 3 If there be any thing in which I can serve you I hope you 
will command me. Mrs. Thomson joins in respects to Mrs. Washington. 

[in] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 

IV. 99. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 28 (p. 317 n.). Washington's letter to Thomson Apr. 5 
is in the Library of Congress, Washington's Letter-Book, no. 6, p. 63. Referring to 
Jacob Read's letter to him Mar. 9 (no. 70, ante) Washington remarks: "Soon after 
having the pleasure of Mr. Reed's company here, he informed me in conversation, that 
the list I had received was a duplicate of what had been sent to Congress ; upon which 
I filed it with my public papers. By the last Post he says he had been under a mistake, 
and wished me to forward the papers which are in my hands to Congress. This I most 
assuredly would have done, but they, are too bulky for the mail, and liable to much 
injury from the nature of such carriage." As indicated by Thomson in this letter, he re- 
ferred the matter to the secretary for foreign affairs the same day, and Jay in turn asked 
Congress for instructions, as considerable expense would be involved in sending a clerk 
to copy the papers or bring up the originals (Papers. Cont. Cong., no. 80, vol. I., f. 145, 
dated Apr. 27, read in Congress Apr. 28). On a motion of Samuel Hardy, Jay was in- 
structed Aug. 19 "to employ some person to collect from Genl. Washington a list of 
the Negroes carryed off from New York by the British Army ", etc. Jay sent George 
Taylor, jr., to Mount Vernon for the purpose (Jay to Washington Aug. 25, Library of 
Congress, Washington Papers; Washington to Jay Sept. 27, ibid., and Washington's 
Letter-Book, no. 6). See also George Washington's Diaries (ed. Fitzpatrick), II. 411, 
412, 417. See further the Journals, June 22, July 5, Aug. 9, Oct. 13, 1786, and no. 462, post. 

3 As the date-line of this letter shows, Thomson was at this time in Philadelphia. 
In the Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, Misc., is a receipted bill (May 9, 
1785) for "freight of his furniture and stores from Philadelphia to New York, £47. 10.0" 



104 Continental Congress 

112. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 20th Ap. IJ 
I this evening received your's of the 7th April, for which accept my 
acknowledgements. I am surprized that I hear nothing from Mr. Lowell 
on the subject of the federal Court. Doct'r Johnson joins me in opinion 
that it will be wholly improper to think of trying the cause in June, in- 
deed it is impossible, the Time is too short to give notice to the Judges. 
No commission is yet made. Mr. Rutledge has given no answer — three 
Judges are to be appointed, notice thereof given them, and time to receive 
their respective answers, etc. etc. I see no benefit from hurrying the 
trial, but from a delay that will give sufficient opportunity to arrange 
Documents, and understand the cause, benefits certainly may be expected. 2 
No minister is yet appointed to the Hague, some weeks since we tried a 
ballot and the votes were divided between Rutledge Harrison, and Govr. 
Livingston — the matter subsided, and nothing is said upon the subject. 8 

I wrote you that Gervais had declined his appointment at the Treasury, 
no Election has been attempted to supply his place, the sense of the House 
appears to be, to waite until they can hear whether Eveleigh of S. Carolina 
will accept. 

Osgood and Livingston have opened their Office ; Knox is also here, 
and in his Office, 4 and if the states were fully represented, we might 
proceed with great facility in public business. Nine states only are repre- 
sented ; Connecticut, Jersey and Delaware are off the floor, and it is uncer- 
tain when they will be here again. New York are not represented by their 
former members — the Chancellor, W. Livingston, and Piatt are out, our 
friend J. Lawrence, and two other Gentlemen, all new, supply their places. 8 
We have been this fortnight about a land ordinance — Virginia makes 
many difficulties, the eastern states are for actual survey, and sale by 
Townships, the Southern States for indiscriminate Locations etc. what 
will finally pass, if anything does, is wholly uncertain. 8 .... 



113. Jacob Read to Charles Thomson. 1 

private Charles Ton, 26th April 1785. 

Dear Sir, 

On my arrival at this place I found the State had changed their Printer 
I therefore did not deliver your Letter directed for Mr. Miller but called 

[11a] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of Rufus King (original) ; Life of King, I. 90. 

2 Gerry's letter of Apr. 7 is in Life of King, I. 86. A letter from John Lowell 
to King Mar. 18, chiefly relating to the Massachusetts-New York controversy, is ibid., 
p. 78. See nos. 70, 82, 91, 108, ante, 117. 122. 128, 205, 216, post. 

8 CJ. nos. («=; (note 3), 101 (note 7). ante, 124, 167, 169, 170, post. 

* Knox had been elected (Mar. 8) secretary at war. See nos. 67, 70, 71, ante, and 
no. 114, post. Samuel Osgood and Walter Livingston were members of the board of 
treasury. See nos. 18 (note 3), 101 (note 16), ante. 

8 The New York delegates were John Lawrance, John Haring, and Melancton 
Smith. 

* Concerning the land ordinance see no. 106, note 4, ante. 
[113] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 



April, 1785 105 

on Mrs. Timothy and gave her a verbal order to the Effect of the resolution 
of Congress with which I suppose she will fully comply and regularly 
furnish those copies of her paper 

The reason I took the Liberty of altering the arrangement respecting 
the paper was that I knew the only Inducement the delegation had for 
recommending Miller's Gazette was his being Printer to the State and 
cou'd they have passed over the State Printer they wou'd most certainly 
have given a preference to Mrs. Timothy 2 

On searching my papers I find in my hurry I brought away a Manu- 
script you were so obliging as to lend me at Trenton. I shall take the 
greatest Care of it and as I hope to be on the floor of Congress by the 15th 
of May I shall have the pleasure to acknowledge the obligation of the Loan 
and to return the Book in person 

I wish you woud do me the favour to drop me a line on what Business 
the Congress are about, how stands Cabal, Gerry, Munro, Howell, and all 
the other great men — how do my Colleagues ? do they attend business as 
they ought? I have seen a copy of the report of your grand Committee 
it will not be liked here. Carolina has most certainly not had Credit for 
her advances or she coud not be called on for near 200,000 Dollars, 8 
unless indeed the pious New-Englanders think tis time to carry their long 
projected Scheme into Execution and make the southern states bear the 
burthen of furnishing all the actual Money 



114. William Grayson to Timothy Pickering. 1 

N. York 27th Ap'l 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Before I arrived at this place, Genl. Knox was elected Secretary 
at War ; he has since come here, and is now active in his office ; from what 
I can learn he has accepted of the appointment under a supposition that 
his house rent will be paid. 2 Poor Carlton is in a distrest situation; he 
will shortly be out of pay and un-pensioned ; I am striving to get some- 
thing allowed him by way of compensation, though I am afraid no great 
matter can be effected, as it is not among the vices of republicans to be 
prodigal, in the article of rewarding for services which are past. 3 

2 See no. 59, ante. 

3 The grand committee report referred to is that found in the Journals under 
Mar. 31. See nos. 29, 87, 91, 109, ante. 

[ii4] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVIII. 234; Life of Pickering, I. 511 
(extract) . 

2 See no. 112, note 4, ante. 

3 Joseph Carleton was secretary in the war office. On Jan. 27 Congress resolved 
that Carleton should continue in that office until General Knox, the secretary at war elect, 
should take charge of the department. On Apr. 26 a memorial from him (Apr. 23) praying 
for compensation for extra services was referred to a committee (Grayson, Holten, and 
EHery), who made a report June 9, detailing his services since 1778 and recommending 
payment for past services on the basis of a higher salary. The recommendation appears 
to have been rejected at the time, but on Sept. 27 Congress ordered payment of one 
thousand dollars for extra services. Meanwhile, on May 17, he was appointed bv General 
Knox as his secretary. 



106 Continental Congress 

Since my arrival I have been busily engaged in assisting about framing 
an ordinance for the disposal of the Western territory ; * I think there has 
been as much said and wrote about it as would till forty Volumes, and 
yet we seem very far from a conclusion, so difficult is it to form any 
system, which will suit our complex government, and where the interests 
of the component parts are suppos'd to be so different. I made a motion 
for Emoluments three days ago, 5 which has nearly divided the Continent 
into equal moieties ; the object of it was to double the quantity of survey- 
ing, and to sell these lands in townships and sections alternately; this I did 
under the impression that it would accommodate both the Eastern and 
Southern States : However this has been strongly objected to, and both 
sides adhere to their opinions ; so that here we stick, with't any movement 
either retrograde or progressive ; I inclose you the draught of the Ord- 
nance as it stands; which you will be kind enough to keep in your hands 
in such a manner as to prevent it from being published, this being against 
rules. I believe it will pass ultimately in a shape very like this, at least 
none of the great principles except perhaps the one allowed, will be 
changed. By it you will observe that there is no office created by it worth 
your acceptance. If in the arrangement of the Post office* or any other 
matter anything occurs which may be worth your notice, I will do myself 
the pleasure of informing you of it; and I can assure you with great 
truth it will give me real satisfaction to do everything in my power towards 
accomplishing any object which you may have in view. 



115. David Howell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

Xi.w York. April 29, 1 

Sir, 

In the journals, which are regularly transmitted by Secretary of Con- 
gress, you will observe the proceedings of Congress down to the 7th 
Instant. Since which much time has been spent on the Requisition and the 
Land-ordinance; neither of which have yet passed: the latter proves 
to be the most complicated and embarrassing Subject before Congress 
since peace has taken place. Infinite pains are taken by a certain sett of 
men vulgarly called Land robbers, or Land-Sharks to have it in their 
power to engross the best lands; while it is the duty of Congress to open 

* See no. 106, note 4, ante. 

6 Such a motion by (irayson does not appear in the Journals Apr. 22 or 23, but 
see his motion May 3, and McHenry's motion May 4 and «;. 

a A committee on the post office had been appointed Dec. 9, 1784, had been re- 
newed Jan. 18, 1785, and on Feb. 28 had made a report on complaints and had been ordered 
to prepare "an additional Ordinance for the better regulation of the Post Office". On 
Mar. 14 the committee had again been renewed and on Apr. 8 Grayson had been added 
to the committee. Little, if anything, had been done toward the preparation of the ordi- 
nance up to Dec. 27. when the committee was once more reconstituted and instructed to 
prepare an ordinance. On Feb. 25, 1786, the committee was again renewed. See no. 360, 
post. 

[115] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 66; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 528. 



May, 1785 107 

their Land-office on terms which will at once secure the greatest possible 
revenue therefrom, and give no undue advantage to any class of citizens, 
or to any district of the Federal Union. 2 .... 



116. The President of Congress to the States of New Jersey, 
Connecticut, Delaware, and Georgia. 1 

Nfjw York April 30th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency an Act of Congress 
that has been produced by a very pressing state of the public affairs. 
Your Excellency will observe that exclusive of other important business, 
Congress points to two objects particularly, the requisition for the present 
year, and an Ordinance for disposing of lands in the western Territory. 
The honor and justice of the United States is much concerned in the 
former, and upon the wise, speedy, and effectual execution of the latter, 
essentially depends the future ease, happiness and prosperity of the people. 
It is indeed true that thinner houses are compitent to the first digestion 
and preparation of business like this, but such is the nature of the foederal 
constitution that a full Congress is necessary to the final completion of 
Objects great as those which are now under consideration. I am there- 
fore, by desire of Congress, to request that your Excellency will be pleased 
to exert your fullest influence with the Delegates of your State to repair 
immediately to Congress. 2 



117. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, May 1st, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

This is Sunday Evening, we have been adjourned since friday. A 
Packet yesterday arrived from L'Orient in thirty days; the president 
informs me that there is a joint Letter from the commissioners on the 
progress of their commission. I don't yet know the contents — To-morrow 
will possess me of it. from private letters of authority, I fear little will 
be done with England, Spain, or the Emperor, embarrassments as to 
place perplex at present, these may be real difficulties, but they are as 

2 See no. 106, ante. Concerning the requisition see no. 109, note 4, ante. 

[116] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 321; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
H. 35X. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 29. Governor Livingston of New Jersey sent a copy of 
this letter to Samuel Dick May 4, urging him to arrange with the other delegates of New 
Jersey to have the state represented in Congress (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., III. 
10). The copy of the President's letter transmitted by Livingston is in possession of 
Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem, N. J. 

[ii7] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of Rufus King (endorsed by Gerry, "N York Letter 
Mr King May 1st arr'd the 18th 1785 ") ; Life of King, I. 92. 

14 



108 Continental Congress 

likely to be ostensibles. 2 I find that the ideas of the commissioners touching 
the sum necessary to treat with the Barbary powers, are far more extei i 
than those entertained by Congress, whether the sums in their power will 
be sufficient to begin the Treaty with, or whether they will do nothing 
until they state their sentiments to Congress, I cannot form an opinion. I 
am inclined to suppose they will commence a negotiation. The danger to 
the American ships from these Robbers is real, but for mercantile pur- 
poses is magnified. 8 The resolves of Boston have reached us, and the 
flame will communicate from State to State. There is a report this 
evening that a ship is coming up the harbour, which has fled from Boston ; 
if so I believe she will not better her condition, the Whig merchants will 
make opposition to the landing of her goods. 4 

If this well founded uneasiness is attended to by wise and moderate 
men, in the several States, it may be improved to purposes the most bene- 
ficial, to our national government, as well as to our national commerce — 
you understand me, without my adding — too much precipitancy may 
injure us, moderation and delay have ever served our true interest. A 
fresh proof of this sentiment, it gives me pleasure to mention to you ; 
you remember the anxiety the Marquis (La Fayette) discovered at Tren- 
ton concerning the demand made by his Court for satisfaction for the 
violation of National Law in the affair at Philadelphia. 

We now have it in our power to conduct the business in a mode con- 
sistent with our own honor, and satisfactory to the other party — I cannot 
be particular — the delay of a decision has been very convenient. 5 

Mr. Lowell wrote me under date of the 25th of April, mentioning the 
intention of the Agents to come on about the 7th of this month. I 
conclude that they had not received my two last letters; I think I wrote 
you to the same purpose. No commission is yet made out, the number 
of Judges is incomplete, no supply can be made until you come on, No 

2 See no. 118, note 2, post. By "embarrassments as to place" King doubtless 
alludes to the disinclination of Great Britain in particular, and likewise of Spain, to treat 
with the American commissioners in Paris, preferring to conduct those negotiations at 
their respective capitals. See the reports of the commissioners Nov. 11 and Dec. 15, 1784 
(Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 534, 544), and their correspondence with the Duke 
of Dorset (Nov. 24, Dec. 9, ibid., pp. 542, 543) ; also Adams to Jay Mar. 9, Apr. 13, 
1785 (ibid., pp. 475, 480, and Adams's Works, VIII. 226, 233), and Adams to Gerry Jan. 
31, Mar. 9 (Life of Gerry, I. 464, 474). Whence King's private letters is not known. 
He does not appear to have opened a correspondence with Adams until Nov. 2 following 
(Life of Kitur. I. 112). 

• Concerning the Barbary powers see nos. 57, 68, ante, and Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, I. 467, 470, 472. 475. 480, 562-578. 

* Gerry wrote to King Apr. 23: You will see by the papers, the Spirit of the 
people at Boston; I am happy to see things in this situation" (Life of King, I. 90). See 
also Jay to Bingham May 31 (Correspondence of Jay, III. 153), and Madison to Monroe 
June 21 (Writings, II. 147); cf. nos. 118, 162, 181, 191, 198, post. The trouble, which 
was by no means confined to Boston, arose from a threatened monopoly of trade by 
British merchants, agents, and factors, with large importations of British goods. The 
resolves of the Boston merchants are in the Boston Gazette Apr. 18, and in Boston \la<>a- 
z'm<- of April, pp. 15S-15& Further resolves of the tradesmen and manufacturers are in 
the Boston Gazette May 9. The movement is well set forth in McMaster, History of the 
People of the United States, 1. 255-257- See the Journals. May 11. 

'King's allusion is to the Longchamps affair. See no. 101, note 8, ante. 



May, 1785 109 

answer is yet returned from Mr Wythe. In short there is no possibility 
of trying the cause in June. I think the business is in good train, but 
Doct Johnson joins me in opinion that the trial must be postponed until 
the fall — the Agents of New York are of this opinion likewise. 

I shall write again to Mr Lowell to this purpose by this post — pray 
see him and explain the situation. 6 

By the bye, the secretary has given me no Notice of my appointment 
as one of the Agents — I don't understand the reason. Should I choose to 
attend the trial I have no authority 



118. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

N. York May 1st, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I am afraid my silence since I came to this place has giv'n you some 
reason to suspect me to be impregnated with that vis inertiae which has 
been so often attributed to me : the only apology I have to make is that I 
wish'd to have something to write to you worth your acceptance, how- 
ever as there would be some danger in risquing a farther delay, I shall 
give you what I have in the manner The New England delegates wish to 
sell the Continental land, rough as it runs ; what I miss in quality I will 
make up in quantity. 

All our attentions here have been for some time turned towards the 
hostile preparations between the emperor and the Dutch ; as it was thought 
the event might have a considerable influence on the affairs of the United 
States. The packet which arrived yesterday has brought different accounts 
of what is doing respecting this business; however I take the following 
to be nearly the truth of the case. 2 .... 

Congress are engaged in ascertaining a mode for the disposal of the 
Western territory; I send you the first draught as reported by the Grand 
Comm'ee, also a second edition with amendments in Congress : The 
matter is still under consideration, and other alterations will no doubt 
take effect. An amendment is now before the house for making the 
Townships 6 M's Sq'e and for dividing those townships by actual surveys 
into quarters of townships, marking at every interval of a mile (in running 
the external lines of the quarters) corners for the sections of 640 acres; 
Then to sell every other township by sections: The reservation (instead 
of the four corner sections,) to be the central section of every quarter; 
that is to say the inside lot, whose corner is not ascertained. Whether this 
will be carried or not I cannot tell, the Eastern people being amazingly 

6 See nos. 14-16, 79, 82, 91, ante, 122, 128, 205, 216, 271, post. 
[118] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
I. 433 (parts). 

- The despatches, read in Congress Monday May 2, and listed in the Journals 
(p. 324 n.), are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 544-552. Grayson's discussion of 
the European situation, here omitted, is in Bancroft, op. cit. Cf. no. 1 17, ante, and no. 280, 
post. In a letter to Pickering the same day Grayson also discusses European affairs 
(Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVIII. 236). 



110 Continental Congress 

attached to their own customs, and unreasonably anxious to have every 
thing regulated according to their own pleasure. 3 

The construction of the deed of cession from Virga. has taken up 
four days, and at length it is agreed not to sell any land between the Little 
Miami and Scioto untill the conditions respecting the Off'rs and soldiers 
are complied with. Some Members of Congress think they have a right 
to have the land laid off for the OfF'rs and soldiers in such manner as 
they please and by their own Surveyors, provided they give good land 
and square figures : others are willing it shall be laid off in the same 
manner as the rest, and the Off'rs and soldiers to choose by sections. If 
the State insists on the right of surveying agreeable to their own laws 
I shd. suppose that Congress could have no objection to appointing 
Comm'rs for deciding that question as well as all others that might arise 
respecting the Compact. 4 

Mr. King of Massachusetts has a resolution ready drawn which he 
reserves till the Ordinance is passed for preventing slavery in the new 
State. I expect Seven States may be found liberal enough to adopt it. 5 

Seven hundred men are voted for protecting the settlers on the fron- 
tiers, for guarding the public stores and for preventing unwarrantable 
intrusions on the lands of the U. S. 9 

I inclose you a plan for altering the 9th article of the confederation. 7 
also a news paper informing what the people of Boston are about. 8 The 
requisition for the present year is before Congress; one article to wit 
30,000 dollars for federal buildings at Trenton, I objected to and was 
supported by the delegates of Maryland, Delaware and New Hampshire. 
N. Carolina was divided. Unfortunately for me the rest of the delegates 
for our State do not think as I do — This is entre nouc. 

I shall notwithstanding do everything in my power to frustrate the 
measure. We shall in all probability get it struck out of the requisition, 
because nine States will not vote for it. I understand however that it is 
intended to get seven States to vote for the sum out of the loans in I [ofland 
supposing that as a hundred thousand doll's was voted at Trenton by 
nine States, generally, that seven can direct the particular appropriation : 
This matter I have not yet considered, neither do I know how it will turn 
out on investigation, however I hope I shall find means to avoid it for 
the present year, and I hope by the next the Southern States will under- 
stand their interests better." 

8 Sec the Journals, May 3-5, and no. 106, note 4, ante. 
4 See the Journals, Feb. 25, Apr. 6, 1 no. 133, past, 

8 See no. 105, Mir. Grayson appears to have overlooked the fact that King's 
motion had already been made (Mar. 16) and that a committee had reported upon it 
(Apr. 6). The report does not appear to have been again taken into considerati 

8 See no. 101, note 10, ante. 

7 See no. 101, note 4, ante, and nos. 125, 153, 175, 182, 183, 194, 196, post. 
*Cf. no. 117, ante. 

9 See no. 109, note 4. ante. On Dec. 20, 1784, Congress resolved " that a sum 
not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars be appropriated " for the erection of federal 
buildings, and the report on requisitions (Mar. 31) included an item of 30,000 dollars 
for that purpose. On Apr. 5 a motion by Grayson, seconded by Foster of Mew Hampshire, 



May, 1785 111 

Congress have refused to let the State discount any part of the monies 
paid for the Western territory, out of the requisitions for the pres't year, 
and I believe if they don't help themselves, they will never find Congress 
willing to discount. In the mean time they will sell the lands. 10 A treaty 
is directed to be held with the Barbary States to purchase their friend- 
ship. Treaties are also to be held with the Cherokees, Chickesaws etc. 
also with the Western Indians shortly. I am sure you are surfeited, 
therefore conclude with great sincerity. 



119. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York May 3d, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have long had a letter prepared for you in answer to your last favor 
which I have kept for the honorable Mr. Sitgreaves to be the bearer of, as 
he proposed to visit you on his return to North Carolina ; and the more 
especially as his stay has been occasioned by the necessity of seeing the 
very important ordinance passed for selling the western lands, which I 
wished you to have in its perfected state. 2 .... I wish that I may be 
enabled by Mr. Sitgreaves to furnish you with the final sense of Congress 
upon the momentous business of selling the western lands, in doing which, 
the first and greatest object seems to be, the discharging effectually the 
great weight of debt that the war has created, and which obstructs so 
effectually every arrangement for future security. 

that the item be struck out was defeated. On the following day however a motion to 
reconsider was carried, and the report was recommitted to the grand committee, the 
personnel of which was at the same time considerably altered. In the new report, Apr. 14, 
the item of 30,000 dollars for federal buildings, " in part of the sum appropriated " by 
the act of Dec. 20, was retained. It remained also in the next report that appears in the 
Journals, July 18. Within the next two months sentiment in Congress appears to have 
changed. On Sept. 22 a motion by Gerry, seconded by Howell, to substitute 100,000 for 
30,000, that is, to include the whole of the appropriation in the requisition for 1785, was 
defeated, two states only, Massachusetts and New Jersey, with two individual votes, 
namely, Howell of Rhode Island and Pettit of Pennsylvania, voting in the affirmative. 
Thereupon a motion was made by Hardy, seconded by McHenry, to strike out the para- 
graph and was carried. Five states, New Hampshire, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and 
South Carolina, voted to strike, three states, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Georgia, 
voted to retain, while four, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania, were 
divided. North Carolina had no delegate on the floor. See nos. 203, 241, post. 

10 See Monroe's motion Feb. 25 {Journals, p. 103; cf. ibid., p. 106 n.), a part of 
which was adopted Apr. 13. On June 22 Monroe renewed his motion in a different form, 
and this was assigned to a committee June 30, but the committee was discharged July 6. 
Similar motions offered by the Virginia delegates July 18 were defeated (Journals, 
PP- 547-549)- Cf. no. 123, post. 

[119] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 332. 

2 See no. 121, post. Washington replied to this letter (also to that of May 7 
and one of May 29) on June 22. With regard to the ordinance respecting the western 
territory he remarked : "A little longer and that country would have been settled maugre 
all that could have been done to prevent it ; as it is I am not clear that the same respect 
will be paid now to this ordinance, which would have been at an earlier period, before 
men began to speculate in Lands No. West of the Ohio and to obtrude themselves thereon " 
(Library of Congress, Washington's Letter-Book, no. 6). 



112 Continental Congress 

1 20. William Samuel Johnson to Joseph Platt Cooke. 1 

N York May 4th, 1 
D'rS'r, 

Our situation here is rather disagreeable. There are only 9 States in 
Town, seldom more than 8 often but 7 upon the floor, even when there 
are 9 nothing import't can pass you are sensible without Unanimity, which 
is not much to be expected in any case. The Land Off'e Ordin[anc]e 
about which warm and unexpected disputes have arisen is not pass'd, the 
Requisit['n] is not even taken up. They can neither of them pass with 
9 States. Business languishes theref'e and Gentn. are uneasy. Mr. Strong 
is not arrived nor do I hear of him. 2 I am of little Use here and I have 
theref'e resolv'd to take this opp'y to Visit my Family. I shall set out 
tomorrow prepar'd however and determin'd tho' it would be of particular 
service to my private affairs to go on to Hartfd. to return here the Moment 
it can be of any Utility. In this situation of Affairs I submit it to you 
whether it will not be of more importance for you to return here with 
me next week than to go as I presume you propose to Hartford. The 
call this way is certainly strong. If you concur in this Idea I will meet 
you at Fairfield on Tuesday or Friday of next week as you shall appoint. 
If on the other hand you think it more eligible to go on to Hartford, I 
beg you will come by the way of Stratford that I may concert the best 
measures we can for obtaining a full representation of the State, and that 
I may know how best to regulate my own Conduct for the public service. 
At any rate I beg a line from you as soon as possible acquainting me what 
I may expect. 

[P. S.] Pressing Lett's are gone to Conn't and the other Unrepresented 
States to send on their Delegates. 8 

121. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York May 7th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

This will be delivered to you by the honorable Mr. Sitgreaves a very 
worthy delegate to Congress from N. Carolina; who has been long de- 
tained by his desire to see the Land Ordinance passed, but he is obliged 
at last to quit us before it is finally so. The reasons lie ean give you. I 

[iao] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers. 

2 Cooke wrote to Johnson May 2 : "I had a very direct conveyance of a Letter 
from Fairfield to Mr. Strong informing him that I had left Congress, and pressing upon 
him the necessity of his immediate attendance. I wish it may produce the desired effect : 
but should he finally decline, as I expect to set (Hit this Day for Hartford, where the 
Supreme Court of Errors is to be holden this week, I shall there use my best endeavours 
to have some other Gentleman go on to join you very soon." Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson 
Papers, no. 97. 

8 See no. 116, ante. On the back of the sheet, in a writing other than Johnson's 
is the following : " Has the Baron a just claim upon Congress for the offices relinquished 
and the expences incurred in coming to the U. S." See the Journals. Mar. 17, 23. July 
7, Sept. 27 ; cf. nos. 233. 286. post. 

[ 1 21] x Library of Congress, Washington Papers: Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 354. 



May, 1785 113 

had some time ago written a letter for you in answer to your last favor 
and kept it to go by this Gentleman, whose detention has been so long as 
to render a new letter more fit. 2 I have now the honor to enclose you the 
Ordinance above alluded to, which meets the assent of nine States and 
every Member of these Nine States, except one Man, who keeps the 
Ordinance from passing by the joint causes, as he alleges, of indisposition 
and dislike. 3 I incline to think, however, that it will pass in the form you 

now receive it, with very little alteration, if any I beg leave to 

refer you to Mr. Sitgreaves for our foreign and domestic news, which 
indeed is not much. 4 .... 



122. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 8th May, 85. 
Dear Gerry, 

.... We are not yet thro' the land ordinance, it has consumed a great 
deal of time, but I think will have a third reading and pass this week — I 
will send you a copy as soon as it passes. I am persuaded great benefits 
will result from it. you will find that it bears strong features of an 
eastern System, when I tell you the History of this ordinance you shall 
acknowledge that I have some merit in the business. 2 

As soon as this affair is over, we shall pass the Requisition if states 
sufficient are in Congress. 3 We have Letters from the Commissioners 
in Europe but nothing new — ministerial correspondences etc. etc. con- 
taining many compliments, and little sincerity 

I intend writing to, or rather for, the Legislature next post. I observe 
in some of the eastern papers that it is affirmed that Congress have 
established a Plan regulating the Duties of Consuls, etc. : pray where 
does that information come from? Nothing of that kind has been trans- 
acted since your departure; and what is singular, nothing is said on the 
subject by Doct. Franklin. 

We have a letter from Mr. Wythe in answer to a letter sent since your 
being in Boston, wherein he expressly declines coming northward to 
attend the federal Court. New York are now concluded and easy. We 
must go in the fall to Williamsburgh. Rutledge has given no answer; 
Grayson and Harrison have declined. If you and one of the Agents, or 
the two Agents will agree on two Gentlemen from our list, to supply the 

2 See no. 119, ante, and no. 125, post. 

3 The man alluded to was probably Rufus King. See no. 112, ante, and nos. 122, 
123, post. 

4 Lee wrote to Col. John Fitzgerald of Alexandria May 4, chiefly on private mat- 
ters but touching upon foreign news. In the close of his letter he says : " Congress has 
taken the most effectual steps in their power to quiet the Barbary Pirates, so as to pre- 
vent their hostilities upon our Commerce." Copy (from the collection of the late Adrian 
H. Joline) in possession of Carnegie Institution; extract in Lee's Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
II. 354. A letter from Lee to Fitzgerald Apr. 27 is listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1189, 
item 30. 

[122] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, Papers of Rufus King (original) ; Life of King, I. 94. 
- See nos. 106-109, 114-116, 118-121, ante; cf. nos. 123-125, post. 
3 See nos. 109 (note 4), 112, 115, 118, ante, 124, 125, 132, 133, 156, post. 



114 Continental Congress 

places of Rutledge and Grayson, and make and sign a proper certificate 
thereof, which we may sign and present to Congress, we may complete 
the number of Commissioners without the trouble of the Agents making 
a special journey for that purpose. You may make and sign a blank 
certificate to be filled up here, by agreement with the N. York Agents, 
with some one to supply the place of Harrison. In this case you would 
advise us of such persons as would be agreeable to you, and from those 
named, undoubtedly we may agree with the N. York Agents on one. It 
will be necessary in this mode of supplying the vacancies to send on the 
original agreement, if the same is found. 4 

Sitgreaves goes home tomorrow, Williamson's time expires this Week, 
and Spaight has been confined to his Room for six weeks with a scorbutic 
complaint. 5 Jersey have been absent these ten days, so that I have had no 
opportunity to laugh at Steward. Delaware are absent, Houston only 
from Georgia, and Doct'r Johnson gone home to bring his Colleague — or 
perhaps to receive the right reverend Bishop Seabury who is daily expected 
in Connecticut. 6 .... 



123. Rufus King to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York 8th May 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

When congress accepted the cession of western Territory from Vir- 
ginia, they engaged to reimburse Virginia the amount of her expences in 
protecting the lands ceded during the late war. A commissioner is to be 
appointed by congress, another by Virginia, and a third by the two first. 
who, or a major part of whom are to ascertain the Sums to be reimbursed 
as aforesaid. If your engagements are such, as would permit your ac- 
ceptance of the appointment under congress, it would give great satis- 
faction to a number of your friends, and remove an apprehension, that 
at present obtains, that the United States are in danger of being charged 
with a very monstrous sum to defray the expences of Genl. Clark's expe- 
dition against the Kaskaski a 

It may require three months or more, to execute the business — the 
salary is at the rate of 1500 Dollars the year, and authority to tmpioy u 
many clerks as may be necessary, at 500 Doll, the year, the pecuniary 
considerations I am sensible cannot be an inducement, but the opportunity 
of essentially serving the United States will be a powerful motive It 
you can consistently accept this appointment I should thank you to know 

* See no. 117, ante, and no. 128, post; also the Journals, June 9; cf. Gerry to King 
May 18, in Life of King, I. 97. 

8 See nos. 146, 168, post. 

8 There are further remarks concerning the American episcopacy and Bishop Sea- 
bury, who had been ordained by a group of nonjuring bishops at Aberdeen, Scotland. 
See McMastcr. History of the People of the I'nited States. I. 33; also Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee, II. 388 (fetter to unidentified correspondent, Oct. 10, 1785). For one phase 
of the subject seo no. 90, note 3. ante. 

[123V Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 240; Life of Pickering, I. 514; 
Life of King, I. 52. 



May, 1785 115 

it; I think Congress will know the inmost of their constituents too well 
not to elect if you can serve. 2 

the Land ordinance is not yet through, we have been obliged so far to 
give up the Plan of Townships, as to admit the sale of one half of the 
Townships in lots of a mile square. I will inclose you the ordinance so 
soon as it passes, which I hope will be the case in two or three Days. 3 



124. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, May [8 ?] 1785. 2 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 12th of April accompanied with the cypher I receiv'd 
yesterday. 3 The appointment of Mr. Adams to the Ct. of G. B. was soon 
afterwards succeeded by that of Mr. Jefferson to that of France. Their 
commissions have been some time since forwarded and before this they 
are no doubt station'd at their respective courts. The removal of the 
former gave uneasiness to Mr. V'n Berkell but as it was immediately 
resolv'd to appoint a successor, it hath probably abated. Govr. Livingston, 
Rutledge, and R. H. Harrison, C. J. of Maryl'd are in nomination. 4 
[G. B.] 5 is still possess'd of the [posts on] the [lakes nor have we reason 
to suppose she means to evacuate. Of this however Mr. Adams will in- 
form us.] our affair with [Spain is suspended until the arrival of Mr. 
Gardoqui. He is expected.] 6 The affr. of [Langchamp] hath not been 
acted on; for particular reasons it hath hitherto been deferr'd. 7 A recom- 
mendation hath been made to the States of Connecticut, N Yk., Jersey 
and Pena. to raise 700 men for the protection of the frontier settlements. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 13, 21 ; cf. nos. 92, 118 (note 10), ante. Pickering declined 
to be a candidate for the office (May 12) ; see Life of Pickering, I. 514-516, and Life of 
King, I. 53; see also Pickering to King June 4, ibid., p. 106. April 21 John Smith was 
elected, on nomination by James McHenry, but he declined {Journals, May 18), and 
thereupon Samuel Holden Parsons was elected (June 9), having previously (May 26) 
been nominated by William Samuel Johnson (see the Journals, pp. 393 n., 396 n.). Sept. 
21 Parsons was elected one of the commissioners to negotiate with the western Indians, 
accepted Oct. 10, and was for a year engaged in those negotiations. See nos. 166, 370, 
post. 

3 Cf. nos. 118, 121, 122, ante, 124, 125, post. 

[ 1 24] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 75; Bancroft, 
Formation of the Constitution, I. 433 (extract). 

2 This letter was probably written about May 8 (Sunday). That it was subsequent 
to May 5 is indicated by his remarks concerning the land ordinance, the status of that 
measure being essentially the same as pointed out by King and Grayson (nos. 122, 123, 
ante, and no. 125, post. If Madison's letter of Apr. 12 arrived on Saturday ("Yester- 
day") it was about twenty-five days on the road. Madison received this letter of Mon- 
roe a few days before May 29, making the time between New York and Orange some- 
what less than twenty days. 

3 Madison's letter of Apr. 12 is in Writings (ed. Hunt), II. 129. His letter of 
May 29 in reply is ibid., p. 143- The letters are also in Letters and other Writings 
(1865 ed.), I. 143, 153. 

4 See nos. 101 (note 7), 112, ante, 142, 167, 169, 170, post. 

5 Great Britain. Words in brackets are written in cipher. In Monroe's Writings 
(ed. Hamilton) the cipher is untranslated. 

6 See nos. 39, 101, 107, ante, 136, 137, 142, post. 

7 Concerning the Longchamps affair see nos. 45 (note 7), 101 (note 8), 117, 
ante, and no. 191, post. 



116 Continental Congress 

It was question'd whether it were not better by requisition and upon 
the Union, since it might be the commencement of an establishm't wh. 
might last for ages, and if the right of requisition existed, the effecting 
by other means might tend to weaken and ultimately destroy it. The dele- 
gation of Mass: at Annapolis protested ag'nst this right and their state 
approv'd their conduct, but as the right of requisition existed only when 
exerted on the union and it seem'd generally preferr'd to raise them from 
3 or 4 of the States most conveniently situated, it was ultimately agreed 
to adopt the mode of recommendation. 8 An ordinance regulating the 
mode of survey and sale of the lands ceded by Virga. hath lately engag'd 
the attention of Congress, it hath not yet pass'd, but as all the points of 
variance seem at length accommodated, it will perhaps in the course of 
the succeeding week. The original report admitted of the sale only of 
tracts containing 30,000 acres, call'd townships; this was adher'd to with 
great obstinacy by the Ea. men, and as firmly oppos'd by the Southern. At 
length however the Eastern party gave up the point at least so far as to 
meet on middle ground. As it now stands it is to be survey'd in townships 
containing abt. 26,000 acres each, each township mark'd on the plat into 
lots of one mile square, and 1/2 the country sold only in townships and 
the other in lots. 13 surveyors are to be appointed for the purpose to act 
under the controul of the Geographer, beginning with the first range of 
townships upon the Ohio and running North to the lakes, from the 
termination of the line which forms the southern boundary of the State 
of Pena., and so on westwd. with each range. As soon as five ranges 
shall be survey'd, the return will be made to the Bd. of Treasury, who are 
instructed to draw for them in the name of each State in the proportion 
of the requisition on each, and transmit its portion to the loan officer in 
each, for sale at publick vendue, provided it is, nor any part, sold for 
less than one doll'r specie or certificates the Acre. Thus stands the ordi- 
nance at present. 9 Sometime since a treaty was order'd to be held with the 
Indians in the southern department, to wh. com'n Mr. Hawkins of No. 
Carolina, Joseph Martin of Virga. and some others were appointed, a 
treaty is also to be held with the Indians westward at post St. Vincents 
or somewhere on the Wabash or Mississippi for the purpose of extinguish- 
ing the claims to soil of the tribes who inhabit in that direction, the late 
com'rs are continued in the appointment. 10 The interest on the loans in 
Holland for the last year we understand is paid but not on those of France 
by the completion of a loan order'd to be effected before the peace. No 
new loan is order'd nor will there be as I conceive. A requisition is before 
Congress for money for the payment of the interest on the domestic debt 
to the 31 of Deer. 1784 and on the foreign to the 31 of 85, amounting 
to 3,000,000 of dol'rs, inclusive of the current expenses of Government; 

• Cf. nos. 48, 99, 101, 118, ante. 

•See nos. 106 (note 4), i.m-ijj, ante, 125. 129, 130, 132. 133, 136-143. 151, post. 
10 With regard to the treaty with the Southern Indians see the Journals, Mar. 4, 
10, 11, 15, ai, 24, and nos. 39, 57, 78-82, 85, 93, ante; with regard to the proposed treaty 
at Vincennes ("post St. Vincents") see the Journals, Mar. 18, May 3. 31, June 
15, 29; also no. 82, ante, and nos. 143, 151, 153, 156, 166, post. 



May, 1785 117 

the monies to be applied to the payment of the interest on the foreign 
debts and the expences of govt, amounting to abt. 1,000,000 of dol'rs to 
be reed, in specie only, and the application to the interest on the domestic 
debt in certificates under the modification of the late requisition being 
abt. 2 thirds. 11 I am strongly inclin'd to believe the western lands will 
absorb all the domestic debt Eastw'd ; the gentn. from that quarter think 
so. I am also fully persuaded that when the accts. of Virga. and No. 
Carolina shall be liquidated the amount will be greater than is expected 
here. The delay in this business from the negligence of Mr. L. Wood, 
prevents the operation of these requisitions having relation to us, and 
when these accts. shall be liquidated most probably ours will comprehend 
the greater part of the domestic debt. No doubt we shall be paid but we 
had better go on pari passu with our neighbours. To expedite this 
business we lately obtain'd the addition of a 2d Com'r to the state for 
the purpose. They are each to act in a district. 12 We have had returns 
from but few of the States changing the 8th article of the confideration ; 
several have already adopted it. The requisition is on the principle, in 
that respect, of the late one. a report some time since pass'd Congress 
for appointing a committee to wait on the legislatures of R. I. New Yk. 
and Georgia to advise the immediate passage of the impost, but hath 
never been taken up. R. I. hath adopted it, with a seperate credit, for 
sums beyond her quota, and the appointment of her own officers. N. York 
hath had it before her legislature this winter and negativ'd it. I believe 
a bill hath been published for inspection of the people in Massachusetts 
wh. had the objects you mention in view but that it hath not pass'd as yet 
into a law. of this however in my next I will inform you. 

125. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York, May [8?], 1785. 2 
Dear Sir, 

I have received your letter of the 25th of Aprill, for which I am much 
obliged to you ; 3 I am sorry for the melancholy occasion which has in- 
due'd you to leave Mount Vernon, and for the affliction which the loss 
of such near relations must involve Mrs. Washington in. 

The ordinance for disposing of the Western territory has been under 
consideration ever since I wrote you last and has underwent several 
alterations, the most considerable of which is that one half of the land 

11 See no. 122, note 3, ante. 

12 See nos. 118 (note 10), 123, ante. 

[125] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 102. 

2 The letter is dated " May 1785 ", but it was probably written on Sunday, May 
8. King says in his letter to Gerry May 8 (no. 122, ante), Sitgreaves goes home to- 
morrow ". Sitgreaves was the bearer of Richard Henry Lee's letters of May 3 and 7 to 
Washington (nos. 119, 121, ante). He was also the bearer of a letter of May 4 to Wash- 
ington from Gen. Robert Howe (Washington Papers). Washington recorded in his 
Diary Sunday May 29 : " The Hon'ble Mr. Sitgreave, a delegate to Congress from the 
State of North Carolina, Mr. Tillotson and Mr. Edward Livingston came to Dinner and 
stayed all Night." Fitzpatrick, Diaries of Washington, II. 379. 

3 Washington's letter to Grayson Apr. 25 is in Washington's Letter-Book, p. 76. 



118 Continental Congress 

is to be sold by sections or lots, and the other half by entire Townships; 
and the dimension of each township is redue'd to six miles; I now expect 
the Ordinance will be completed in a few days, it being the opinion of 
most gentlemen that it is better to pass it in it's present form nearly, than 
to delay it much longer and incur the risque of losing the country alto- 
gether. As soon as it is finished I shall do myself the honor to inclose 
you a copy, and though it will be far from being the best that could be 
made, yet I verily believe it is the best that under present circumstances 
can be procured: There have appeared so many interfering interests, 
most of them imaginary, so many ill founded jealousies and suspicions 
throughout the whole, that I am only surpris'd the ordinance is not more 
exceptionable; indeed if the importunities of the public creditors, and tin 
reluctance to pay them by taxation either direct or implied had not been 
so great I am satisfied no land Ordinance could have been procured, except 
under such disadvantages as would in a great degree have excluded the idea 
of actual settlements within any short length of time; This is not strange 
when we reflect that several of the States are averse to new votes from 
that part of the Continent and that some of them are now disposing of 
their own vacant lands, and of course wish to have their particular debts 
paid and their own countries settled in the first instance before there is 
any interference from any other quarter.* With respect to the different 
places of sale, it is certainly open to the objections you mention, but it 
was absolutely necessary to accede to the measure, before we could 
advance a single step. Since the receipt of your letter I have hinted to 
some of the members the propriety of altering this part, but find that the 
idea of allowing the Citizens of each State an equal chance of trying the 
good lands at their own doors, was one of the strongest reasons with 
them for consenting to the ordinance. As to the individual states inter- 
fering in the sale, it is guarded against; and in case the loan Officer who 
is responsible only to Congress cannot dispose of the land in a limited 
time, it is to be return'd to the Treasury board : With respect to the 
fractional parts of Townships, the Ordinance has now provided for all 
cases which can occur, except with respect to the Pensylvania line. The 
Course of the new State from the Ohio will be due North, and the dispute 
with Pensylvania will be open to discussion hereafter. 8 I am sorry to 
observe that throughout this measure, there has been a necessity for sacri- 
ficing one's own opinion to that of other people for the purpose of getting 
forward. There has never been above ten States on the floor and nine of 
these were necessary to concur in one sentiment, least they should refuse 
to vote for the Ordinance on it's passage. The price is fix'd at a dollar the 

* See the Journals, May 3-5, also no. 124, note 9, ante. 

6 After making some observations on the mode of disposing of the lands Wash- 
ington remarked: ". . . . (under the rose) a penetrating eye, and close observation, will 
discover thro' various disguises a disinclination to add new States to the confederation. 
westward of us ; which must be the inevitable consequence of emigration to, and the popu- 
lation of that territory; — and as to restraining the citizens of the Atlantic States from 
transplanting themselves to that soil, when prompted by interest or inclination — you 
might as well attempt (while our Governm'ts are free) to prevent the reflux of the tides, 
when you had got them into your rivers." See no. 39, note 2, ante. 



May, 1785 119 

acre liquidated certificates, that is the land is not to be sold under that ; 
The reason for establishing this sum was that a part of the house were 
for half a dollar, and another part for two dollars and others for inter- 
mediate sums between the two extremes, so that ultimately this was agreed 
upon as a central ground. If it is too high (which I am afraid is the 
case) it may hereafter be corrected by a resolution. 

I still mean to move for some amendments which I think will not only 
advance the sale, but increase the facility of purchasing to foreigners, 
though from present appearances I own I have but little hopes of success. 

After this affair is over, the requisition for the current year will be 
brought forward. The article of 30,000 dollars for the erection of foederal 
buildings at Trenton I have already objected to, and shall continue to 
oppose by every means in my power, as I look upon the measure to be 
fundamentally wrong, and I am in hopes nine States cannot be found to 
vote for it; should those in opposition to the measure be able to put off 
the execution for the present year it is to be expected that the Southern 
States will open their eyes to their true interests and view this subject in 
a different light. What I at present fear is, that failing to get this article 
allowed in the requisition they will attempt to draw the money from Hol- 
land by a vote of seven States inasmuch as a hundred thousand dollars were 
voted at Trenton for that purpose although no particular fund was 
assigned. I own this matter has giv'n me some disgust, as I see an in- 
temperate ardor to carry it into execution before the sense of the Union 
is known; and I have no doubt that some gentlemen have come into 
Congress expressly for that purpose. 8 

I take the liberty of introducing Mr. St Greave 7 a delegate from North 
Carolina a gentleman of great worth, who is travelling through our State 
to his own Country: He will be very happy to communicate to you the 
news of this place. I inclose you the report of a Comm'ee for altering 
the first paragraph of the 9th article of the confederation, which embraces 
objects of great magnitude, and about which there is a great difference 
of sentiment. 8 

126. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York May 16th 1785. 
Sir, 

.... My ill state of health, added to the business and the ceremonies 
of my Office, has hitherto prevented me from paying my respects to you, 
which certainly would have been the case if the former of these circum- 
stances had not principally prevented me . . . The appointment of Mr. 
Adams to the Court of London will probably draw out quickly the sense 
of Great Britain upon the point in dispute with them. And the Authority 
given by Congress to treat with the Piratical States will, I hope, accom- 
modate all differences with them, and give future security to our Com- 

6 See no. 118, note 9, ante. 

7 John Sitgreaves. 

8 Cf. nos. 101 (note 4), n8, ante. 

[ 1 26] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 357. 



120 Continental Congress 

merce with the South of Europe The great Object with the 

United States now, is to dispose speedily of the western lands for the 
discharge of public debt, and a way for this is opened by treaties already 
made, and making with the Indians. Coinage, requisition, and Post Office 

are also objects of great moment and subjects of discussion It 

remains uncertain whether Congress will adjourn or not this year, but as 
I value extremely your Correspondence, Your letters for me may always 
be safely enclosed to the Virginia Delegates in Congress, so that whether 
Congress or the Committee of States should be setting, your letters will 
reach me safely, be so good as to thank Mr. Short for his letter to me and 
inform him that I will reply by the next Packet. 2 .... 



127. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York May 16, 1; 
Sir, 

We have the honor to transmit to your Excellency copies of the treaties 
lately held with the Indian tribes by the Commissioners of the United 
States, at fort Stanwix and fort Mcintosh, the former concluded on the 
226. of October 1784. and the latter on the 21st of Jany. 1785 Wc also 
transmit the copy of an act of Congress directing a treaty to be held with 
the southern Indians at such place as the commiss 'rs appointed may think 

•Jefferson's letter to which Lee is replying is not in his Writings (ed. Ford). 
His reply to this letter, July 12, is ibid., IV. 69. Lee's letter to Short, dated June 13, is 
no. 151, post. 

[127] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (modern copy, with the names of Lee, Grayson, 
and Monroe appended). 

2 See no. 39, note 2, ante. This letter is doubtless in response to Governor Henry's 
letter of Apr. 16 (Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 292), which refers particularly to a letter 
from Joseph Martin of Mar. 26 (ibid., p. 282). Henry's reply to Martin, Apr. 16, is 
ibid., p. 294. Martin's letter of Mar. 26, which refers both to the Washington County 
affair and to that of the State of Franklin, is also in Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 18. 

The same day on which this letter of the delegates was written there were laid before 
Congress a memorial from the State of Franklin, brought hither by their accredited 
agent, William Cocke, and a representation from Washington County, Virginia, of which 
also Cocke was the bearer. While Congress took no action upon these memorials. Secre- 
tary Thomson did enter in Despatch Book no. 185, vol. III., p. 125, under the date M.iy 
16, the following record: " Mem'l of Assembly of State of Franklin in Western Country 
respecting territory west of Alleghany, boundaries of new states". Immediately follow- 
ing this, and linked with it by a brace, is the further entry: "April 7 Deputies of V\ 
ington County Mem of people west of Alleghany Association of western people Add 
to western people". With regard to the State of Franklin see no, 146, post. The date 
April 7 indicates that the reference is to a letter addressed to the President of Com.'- 
dated "Washington County April 7th 1785", "Signed by order, Chas. Camming! Ch : ", 
and " honor 'd by Wm. Cocke Fsqr." (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 48, f. 297). The ' 
tion" is ibid., f. 287, and a document marked " Extracts from an Address to the Western 
Inhabitants " is ibid., f. 289. The Charles Cummings who signed the letter of April 7 
was the same Charles Cummings, a Presbyterian minister, who signed as chairman the 
memorial read in Congress Jan. 13 (see no. 10, ante) ; and the "Association" is in the 
same writing as that memorial. Professor Turner, in his article on " Western State- 
Making in the Revolutionary l'ra " (Am. Hist. Rev., I. 70-87, 251-269), briefly charac- 
terizes both the Camming! letter and the "Association" (ibid., pp. 259-260), though he 
does not cite their location; and Williams (The Lost State of Franklin, pp. 47-48) quotes 
the passage from Turner's paper. 



May, 1785 121 

most convenient for the purpose ; likewise of an act appointing one to 
be held in June next at post St. Vincent, for the purpose of extinguishing 
the claims to soil of the tribes inhabiting the country still further to the 
westward and northwestward. By these negotiations your Excellency 
will perceive it is the earnest desire and uniform object of Congress, to 
give peace and security to the frontier settlements of the United States, 
and at the same time make more valuable the lands which they offer for 
sale, for the payment of the publick debt. 

128. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 19th May 1785. 
Dear Gerry, 

Mr. Lowell, Sullivan and Parsons arrived here yesterday. 2 The Nego- 
tiation will commence soon, for filling up the federal Court. I am dis- 
appointed in your not coming on with these Gentlemen. We shall want 
your good assistance in this business ; and I am anxious for your society 
in congress. 

We have no public information whatever. A very great uneasiness is 
discoverable among the merchants and traders generally through the 
states, from the dissordered condition of commerce. What can be done? 
Eight states only have complied with the recommendation of last year for 
granting to Congress power to prohibit certain importations and exporta- 
tions. Nothing therefore from this quarter can be expected at present — 
indeed it may be questionable, whether if all the states had complied, the 
power granted which is only to prohibit, and not to regulate, certain 
courses of Trade, can give a remedy to the difficulties which threaten fatal 
mischiefs to our commerce, pray examine the recommendation to the 
states by Congress last year — suppose a complete compliance on the part 
of the several states, could congress proceed to regulate the foreign trade 
carried on in this country by imposing duties ? 

The situation of the impost laws you know, the unprosperous con- 
dition of commerce you must have entire information concerning, the 
disposition of Congress you cannot be a Stranger to, What can be done ? 

Repe[a]ted recommendations on the same subject will produce con- 
sequences unfavorable to the measures of the Union; and the Delays in 
compliance will be ruinous. 8 

[128] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of Rufus King; Life of King, I. 97. 

2 John Lowell, James Sullivan, and Theophilus Parsons had been joined to King 
and Holten as agents for Massachusetts in the controversy with new York. See Gerry 
to King May 9, 18, in Life of King, I. 95, 97; cf. nos. 117, 122, ante, 205, 216, 271, post. 
In N. C. State Recs., XXII. 632, is a letter from the New York and Massachusetts agents 
(Duane, Jay, and Walter Livingston on the part of New York; Gerry, Holten, and King 
on the part of Massachusetts) to Samuel Johnston, dated June 15, soliciting his acceptance 
of the appointment as one of the judges in the case. See the Journals, June 9. Gerry was 
not at that time in New York, but his signature was attached in accordance with the plan 
outlined by King in his letter to Gerry May 8 (no. 122, ante). 

3 Gerry replied, May 27 : "I am not sorry the states have not adopted the Recom- 
mendation of the last year, respecting Commerce. They were the best that could then be 
obtained, but would prove vastly inadequate to the Exigency of our affairs at this Time. 
If Congress and the Legislatures have not sense sufficient to rectify the commercial Evils 
they will remedy themselves." Life of King, I. 101. 



122 Continental Congress 

129. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York May 20, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

.... I hope we shall shortly finish our plan for disposing of the 
western Lands to discharge the oppressive public debt created by the war 
and I think that if this source of revenue be rightly managed, that these 
republics may soon be discharged from that state of oppression and dis- 
tress that an indebted people must invariably feel. 2 The late arrival here 
of a Ship from Canton in China after a successful voyage of 14 Months 
from this port, is a proof of American enterprise, and will probably 
mortify, as much as it will injure our old oppressors, the British." .... 

130. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen. 1 

New York May the 22d 1 ; 

My dear Nephew, 

.... I believe it is only for that eye which sees all things to conic, 
that can conjecture when Congress will adjourn. It seems clear howi 
that it will not be before August, if they adjourn at all — whilst they con- 
tinue to sit I am bound you know, and when they adjourn I shall make 
great haste to Virginia. However, I hope you may go up the North River, 
because, by that means I shall have the happiness of seeing you here once 

[129] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (unbound); Letters (ed. Ballagh), 

II. 359- 

2 The ordinance was adopted the same day. See no. 130, note 2, post. 

8 Rufus King wrote to Elbridge Gerry May 12: " The Empress of China, India 
ship yesterday arrived in four months from Canton. We have no particulars of the pros- 
perity of her voyage. She was received in China with utmost civility, and received at- 
tentions there which promise encouragement to future adventures" (Life of King, I. 96). 
The ship was under the command of John (irtvn, to whom Congress granted sea-letters 
Jan. 30, 1784 (see the Journals under that date). The ship sailed from New York Feb. 
22, 1784, and returned to that port May [I. 1785. In a letter to John Jay May 10, Samuel 
Shaw, who states that he was " appointed agent for their Commerce by the Gentlemen, 
at whose risk this first experiment has been undertaken ", gives an account of the voyage. 
Shaw's letter is in Correspondence of Jay, III. 144 (see also Robert Morris to Jay May 
19, ibid., p. 143, and Jay to William Bingham May 31, ibid., p. 153), and in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A.. 1783-1789, III. 761. Shaw's letter was published in the New York Dotty 
7\-rtiser Sept. 2, 1785, with the following introduction: "The following is a letter to 
Mr. Jay, from Mr. Shaw, who went in the ship Empress of China to Canton, as com- 
mercial agent for the owners. It contains an interesting and well written account of that 
voyage. This gentleman served the United States, during the late war, as a Captain in 
the American army; and such was his conduct and character, that he acquired the con- 
fidence and esteem of Major General Knox, and became an Aid de Camp to that I 
and distinguished officer." See Jay to Jefferson Sept. 14, Dipt. Corr. U. S. A. I78i-i?Sq, 
I. 618. Jay's response, May 30. is ibid.. III. 766. On the same day Jay transmitted Shaw's 
letter to Congress, together with two pieces of silk which had accompanied it. The 
pieces of silk had been presented to Shaw by the Fuen of Canton (the " head magistrate " 
of the city), "as a mark of his good disposition towards the American nation". The 
committee to whom the letters were referred made a report June 9. Cf. the Journals, 
Mar. 22, June 2, 16, 22, Sept. 1, also nos. 134, 136, 153, 154, post. See also McMaster, 
History of the People of the United States, I. 250-262. On Jan. 27, 1786, Shaw was chosen 
to be consul of the United States at Canton. In 1847 Josiah Quincy brought out The 
Journals of Major Samuel Shatv. First American Consul at Canton, with a Life of tht 
Author. 

[130] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh). II. 360. 



May, 1785 123 

before I quit this City. We have past the Land Ordinance for selling 
the Country N. W. of Ohio so far as the Indian purchases go, for pay- 
ment of the debts of the United States. 2 .... 

131. Samuel Holten to the Speaker of the Massachusetts House 
of Representatives (Samuel Alleyne Otis). 1 

New York, 25th May, 1785. 
Sir, 

Congress having lately determined that the Delegates from each state, 
should be furnished with six copies of their journals, commencing from 
the first monday in Novr. last; therefore I have the honor of inclosing 
a copy, so far as they are printed, for the use of the honorable house. 2 

132. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 27th May, 1785. 
Dear Gerry, 

This accompanies the land ordinance which hath at length obtained its 
passage through Congress. I hope it will meet your approbation. 2 We are 
now occupied by the business of a requisition for monies. 

The Recommendation of the 27th of April 1784 is the source of great 
embarrassment. Congress thereby declare that they will not call for 
farther monies, until the States have all paid up former deficiencies, and 
they engage to credit advances over the Moiety of the eight Millions of 
Dollars in the next Requisition. South Carolina by management with 
Mr. Morris have obtained a credit for specific supplies equal to their quota 
of the Eight millions of Dollars, and now contend that as they have ob- 
tained a credit on their quota of Eight millions, equal to the whole amount 
thereof, the present demand on the States being for the remaining moiety 
of the Eight Millions, they ought not to be called on for any part of the 
sum, necessary for the current year. 3 

The recommendation of last year, which is a very complex affair, also 
states that before the residue of the Eight and Two millions of Dollars, 
not thereby called for should be required, Congress would revise the rule 
of apportionment, and make it conformable to Justice upon the best evi- 

2 The ordinance was adopted May 20, almost exactly a year from the time when 
the first ambitious project for the purpose had failed of adoption (May 28, 1784), itself 
the product of months of discussion. Cf. nos. 106 (note 4), 119, 124 (note 9), 125, 129, 
ante, 132, 133, 136-143, 151, post. For a history of the proceedings see Payson J. Treat, 
The National Land System, 1785-1820, especially chapter II. Broadsides of the ordi- 
nance at various stages are in Hist. Soc. of Pa., William Henry Papers, nos. 237, 243, 
245, 247, 249. 

[131] 1 Mass. Arch., House Files, no. 1874. 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 29. 

[i32] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, Papers of Rufus King (original) ; Life of King, I. 99; Life 
of Gerry, I. 492. 

2 See no. 130, note 2, ante. 

3 On July 28 the South Carolina delegates made a motion of the purport here 
indicated, and again on Sept. 8. A kindred motion was made by South Carolina and Vir- 
ginia Sept. 26. See also the South Carolina motions July 7 (erased entry) and Aug. 3; 
cf. nos. 87, 109, 122, 124, ante, 133, 136, 141, 146, 156, post. 

15 



124 Continental Congress 

dence in their power at the Time. S. Carolina in the apportionment of 
the Eight millions stands at the same sum as New Hampshire. Revise 
the Rule and conform it to justice, and South Carolina will stand at a 
larger sum and other States at a less. This is what I contend for, and if 
it succeds we shall bring in S. Carolina. 

Indeed it may be questionable whether we ought not to reconsider the 
recommendation of last year on this Subject — to enjoin it upon the states 
to comply with the expectations of congress in paying a moiety of quotas 
of the Eight Millions last year required ; and make a new Requisition for 
the monies necessary for the present year, without reference to former 
requisitions. 

It will be the occasion of confusion and intricacy, if every new requi- 
sition upon the States for money is to operate as a ballance Bill to all 
preceding demands. What think you of this idea. 

133. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Matthew Griswold). 1 

New York 27th Mav 1785. 

We now at length inclose yr. Excell'y Copy of the Ordinance for the 
disposition of the Western Territory not such as we could have wished 
and long hoped it would have been, but such as after the utmost eft 
of publick Argument and private solicitation it could alone be. Opinions 
were so unalterably fix'd upon the one extreme and the other that nothing 
could have pass'd but by mutual Concession and Composition. The Ne 
sity there was for doing something upon a subject of so much im port a nce 
to the Interest of the United States, will we hope Apologuize for our 
consenting to a mode of disposition which we could not perfectly approve. 
We hope however it will answer the end to begin with at least and if 
inconveniencies shall arise upon Experemcnt it will be in the Power of a 
future Congress to remedy them before they can have very extensively 
fatal effects. 2 The Geographer of the U. S. Mr. Hutchins will be directed 
to enter upon the Survey as soon as possible, in Order to this you see a 
Surveyor to Act under his direction is to be Appointed from each State, 
for the purpose not only of an Accurate survey, but of diffusing as gener- 
ally as possible thro' the States a knowledge of the Nature and Quality of 
the Country so that the Citizens in general may be enabled to make their 
Purchases with Judgment and Discretion. The Gentn. to be appointed 
sho'd therefore not only be well skilled in the Art of Surveying but pos 
Talents for Observation and discovery so that at his return he may be able 
to give his Countrymen a full and faithful Idea of the Country and prevent 
their being imposed upon by the representations of Artful interested and 
designing Men. It do's not occur to us who among us thus Qualified we 
can Nominate that will probably undertake, and be soon ready to enter 
upon this business, and it is of much importance that there sho'd be no 

[133]! Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 107 (draft, in the writing of Johnson; 
letter Kttl doubtleu signed by Johnson and Cooke). 
2 See no. 130, note 2, ante. 



May, 1785 125 

disappointment in this regard by a declining of the Appointment after 
it is made. We therefore beg yr. Excell'y to point out to us as soon as 
possible a Gentn. who will undertake this important and arduous trust. 
An early day is Assigned for the Election of them and several States 
have already made their Nominations. 3 

The Requisition, tho' it has been several times discussed, is not yet 
completed. The Recommendation relative to the Trade of the U. S. will 
we apprehend be taken up in a few days. 4 Several other very important 
matters are under consideration. The Envoy of Spain Mr. Gardoquoie 
is expected to arrive here in a few Days from Philada. when a Negoti- 
ation will commence upon the important subject of the Missisippi Navi- 
gation and other consequential Topicks. 5 

As we see little Prospect that Congress can soon rise, and still less of 
our being relieved by the Attendance of any other Gentn. in our room, 
we beg leave to mention to you that our Finances are already at a very low 
Ebb and will very soon be totally exhausted, and to entreat yr. Excell'y 
if it be wished that we sho'd continue here that farther provision may be 
made for us. 

We cannot yet obtain a report of the Committee upon the Connecticut 
Cession. The subject has been much Debated, and the Comm'ee so often 
changed that no less than nine Gentn. have already sat upon it. That 
point which labours most at present is an Idea that the Virginia N. W. 
line will include a great part, if not the whole even of the 120 M reserved 
by Connecticut, that Virginia having Ceded to the U. S. all to the N. W. 
of the Ohio. Congress will consequently by accepting the Cession of 
Conn, under the reservation in fact give to Conn, that 120 M instead of 
receiving anything from her. This Construct'n of the Virginia Patent 
is in our Opinion clearly unfounded and untenable, but it is difficult to 
eradicate preconceived Opinions, especially on the side of Interest. Mean 
time some part at least of the reserved 120 Acres [miles] is within the 
Territory now proposed to be surveyed and sold under the Ordinance tho' 
as we conceive not affected by it. 6 

3 On May 25 the election of the surveyors for each state was set for Friday 
May 27, when surveyors for New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina were chosen. The election for 
Georgia and New Jersey took place June 17, that for Delaware July 15, and that for Con- 
necticut (Isaac Sherman) July 18. On the same day Benjamin Tupper was chosen for 
Massachusetts, to serve until Rufus Putnam, previously elected, could assume the duties 
of the office. See no. 164, post. On Aug. 15, the New Hampshire appointee, Nathaniel 
Adams, having resigned, Ebenezer Sullivan was appointed in his stead. Sullivan in turn 
declined, and Edward Dowse was then chosen (Aug. 23). See nos. 141, 180, post. 

4 Concerning the requisition see nos. 122 (note 3), 124, ante. Concerning the 
regulation of trade see nos. 19 (note 4), 101 (notes 4 and 5), ante, 153, 156, 175, post. 
Jesse Root wrote to Johnson May 28 : " Congress must be invested with Competent 
powers to regulate Trade — to raise a revenue for national purposes and to govern the 
republic of States or we never Can perpetuate our union and free Constitution of Gov- 
ernment." Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 98. 

5 See no. 142, post. 

6 See nos. 45, no, ante, 172, 279, post. 



126 Continental Congress 

134. Samuel Dick to Mrs. Dick. 1 

May 27th, 1785, New York. 
My D'r Sally, 

Tho' my Journey to this City employ'd Eleven days Yet it was unattended 
with any disagreeable Circumstances. The uncommon wetness of the 
weather gave me a good pretext for Loitering at the Homes of my friends 
on the way and paying some long promis'd visits. 2 .... The continued 
Bad Weather Joined to a Conviction that I could be of no [service at]' 
Congress alone, induc'd me to stay till Tuesday. Col. Beatty Consented 
to follow me in a few days, Tho' he had retir'd from Congress, deter- 
min'd to attend wholly to his Domestic Affairs. His Situation within a 
mile of Princeton is Extremely pleasant and susceptible of much Improve- 
ment, and Mrs. Beatty is the agreeable Lady I Expected to find. On 
Tuesday Evening I arrivd at Elisabeth Town 40 Miles. Next Morning 
to the governors about one Mile. Here, Hospitality without ostentation 
and agreeable Conversation Induc'd me to stay two days, in which Time 
Col. Beatty passed thro Elisabeth Town and got to New York a few hours 
before me on Friday. Our two former Messmates at Annapolis Ellery 
and Howell live with us at Mrs. Harts. I have seen Mrs. Hopper who 
was well and Enquird affectionately for her friends. I will with great 
Satisfaction Inform you when there is any prospect of my Return to 
Salem. For tho' the Healthy Situation, Important Business, and many 
Amusements combine to Engross my attention, the Dear Idea of home 
still rivets and takes possession of my Mind. But I shall not be Uneasy 
if I hear of your Welfare. Here is a ship lately from the other side of 
the [world and] we have Teas, Silks, and other India produce Immediately 
from China with many Curiosities which I cannot describe having not 
yet been on Board.* .... 

135. Samuel Dick to William Hall. 1 

New York May 27th 1785. 
D'r S'r, 

.... I have inclos'd an Ordinance for the Disposal of our new 
Western State which has been the produce of our [ujnited Labours for 
some Weeks past. I wish It may Exhibit in the Execution Marks of 
Wisdom proportiond to the Time and Expense it has and will Cost. I 
made a Sauntering Journey to this City, having spent Eight Days on the 

("134I l Original in possession of Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem, N. J.; photostat fur- 
nished by the courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 

2 In the omitted passage Dick gives some account of his journey as far as Colonel 
Beatty's, having left home on Tuesday, May 3, arriving at Colonel Beatty's on Friday 
following. His arrival in New York was on Friday May 13, and his first attendance in 
Congress would appear to have been on Monday May 16. 

8 The manuscript has been damaged at the folds in such a manner that some words 
are indecipherable, or nearly so. Another hand has supplied most of the missing w 
here placed in square brackets. 

4 See no. 129, ante, 136, 153. 154. Post. 
["135"] l Original in possession of Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem. N. J.; photostat fur- 
nished by the courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 



May, 1785 127 

Road from Philade. Tho very Agreeably. Permit me D'r S'r to hope for 
the Continuance of Care in forwarding my homeward bound Letters and 
puting those addressed to me into the Office. 2 .... 

136. Samuel Dick to Thomas Sinnickson. 1 

New York May 27th 1785. 
D'r S'r, 

My attendance in Congress was very seasonable As they had adjourned 
several Days for want of a sufficient number of States to proceed to 
Business. I prevailed on Col. Beatty, that my attendance not be Ineffectual, 
to Return to New York tho' he had arranged his affairs for retiring 
totally from Congress. 2 

The Inclosed is the only finished Business which I can now transmit, 
as it differs materially from the former Mode of Disposal of western 
territory proposed at Annapolis and may be of service to some of our 
Citizens, Request you will make it as publick as you can conveniently. 3 

You have no doubt heard of the Arrival of the Empress of China and 
as much of the Merchantile Import of the voyage as I can give, some of 
her owners being in Philad. 4 

Pray inform me if you have any word of the Briggs Arrival in Ireland 
and any other Intellegence you may think proper. 

In my next I may probably send a copy of the Indian Treaty and hope 
soon the Requisition for supplies from the States may be furnished. We 
Expect hourly the Arrival of Don Gardoqui. My Respects wher due. 

Yours Affectionately, 

Saml. Dick 

N. B. I Reed, fifty Dollars of Wm. Hall which I suppose you have 
repaid him. 5 

137. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams. 1 

New York May the 28th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to you by Col. Smith, which letter I doubt 
not but that you have, or will in due time safely receive. 2 My hopes are 
great, that your wisdom, and the good sense of the British Administra- 
tion, will extinguish the mischievous discord that has been so artfully and 
industriously fomented by the enemies of both countries to the essential 
injury of both, and in violation of the best principles of humanity. A 

2 See no. 134, ante. 
[136] 1 Chicago Hist. Soc, Gunther Coll. 

2 See no. 134, ante. 

3 See nos. 129, 130, 132, 135, ante, and no. 140, post. 

4 See nos. 129, 134, ante, 153. 154, post. 

5 The letter to William Hall (no. 135, ante) is partly concerned with the pay- 
ment of money. 

[137] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 362; Adams MSS., Boston. 
2 The letter of Apr. 14 (no. 103, ante). 



128 Continental Congress 

set of acrimonious, disappointed people, who meaning the gratification 
of their own malice and self interest, are poisoning the minds of men with 
plausibilities and theoretic reasonings, that are opposed to the true state 
of things; and whose counsels if pursued, will tend only to plant dis- 
sention and distress, where mutual good and common happiness should he 
cultivated, and will flourish. The enclosed ordinance will show you the 
measures that we are taking to dispose of western lands for the extinguish- 
ment of the public debt. It seems that this will have very powerful op« 
tion in effecting the end designed by the system. For the country is fine 
beyond description both in soil and climate — abounding with all those 
primary and essential materials for human industry to work upon, in 
order to produce the comfort and happiness of mankind. Don Diego de 
Gardoque has just announced to me his arrival at Philadelphia in quality 
of Plenipotentiary from his Catholic Majesty, and that he will pay his 
respects in a few days. 3 .... It seems probable at present that Congress 
will not adjourn this year — if they should it will not be sooner than the 
middle of August. 4 .... 



138. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Secretary's Office, May 28th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency an Act of the 
United States in Congress Assembled for laying out into distinct States 
the western Territory ceded to the Union by individual States and stating 
the principles which the temporary and permanent government of the 
New States shall be established. Also an Ordinance for ascertaining the 
mode of disposing of lands in the Western Territory and subsequent 
measures taken for carrying the Ordinance into effect." 

Having reed, no answer to my letter of the 12 April last covering the 
Acts of the 1, 7, and 12 of that month, relative to the raising a body of 
troops for the purposes therein mentioned I must beg the favour 0! your 
Ex'y to communicate to me the steps taken by your state for raising the 
quota assigned that I may be enabled to make report thereof. 8 

8 See nos. 39, 107, 124, ante, 141. 14.2. post. 

*Cf. nos. 101, 103, 112, 126, 133. wttt, 151. 156, 161, 196, post. 
[138] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 84; Clinton Papers, VIII. 387; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 457 (dated May 12). See also note -;, below. 

- This paragraph alone constituted a letter to New Hampshire, Massachusetts, 
and Rhode Island. The same letter, with the addition, "Also an Ordinance for the regu- 
lation of the office of the Secretary of Congress ", WM KOl to the governors of Delaware, 
Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia (Letter- Book, p. 84). "The same with 
the following addition, vis." that is, the second paragraph of the letter as printed alwwe 
was sent to the governors of Connecticut, New York. New Jersey, and Pennsylvania 
(ibid., p. 84). For the letter to North Carolina see no. 139, post. The enclosures were 
the ordinance of Apr. 23, 1784, for the government of the western territory, and the land 
ordinance of May 20. [785. < >n the same day the secretary notified the several surveyors 
of their appointment (Letter-Book, p. 86) and transmitted the land ordinance to the geo- 
grapher, Thomas Hutchins (ibid., p. 87 N « 

• The letter of Apr. 12 is no. 100. ante. See also no. 148, post. 



May, 1785 129 

139. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress May 28th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency sundry acts of the 
United States in Congress assembled 1st. An act of the 23d april 1784 
for laying out into distinct States the western territory ceded to the Union 
by individual States, and purchased of the Indians; and stating the prin- 
ciples on which the temporary and permanent governments of the New 
states shall be established. 2d An Ordinance ascertaining the mode of 
disposing of lands in the Western Territory so ceded and purchased. 

3d A recommendation to the State over which you preside, to recur to 
the principles of magnanimity and justice which dictated the act of the 2d 
of June 1784 and to evince the same good disposition by repealing the 
act of the 20th November last and compleating the Cession of western 
territory made by the first act. 2 

4th An Ordinance for the regulation of the Office of the Secretary of 
Congress passed the 31st March 1785. As this ordinance makes it the 
duty of the Secretary not only to transmit to the States the Acts, Ordi- 
nances, Resolutions and Recommendations of Congress, but also to cor- 
respond with the States for the purpose of receiving communications from 
them relative to the execution of the same, I trust your Excellency will 
favour me with an answer, and that the conduct of North Carolina will 
exhibit the clearest proof, that no State in the Union can exceed, nor 
any consideration over ballance their Zeal to extend the blessing of liberty, 
and to promote the peace, happiness and prosperity of the Confederacy. 



140. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York May 28th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the pleasure some time since of writing to you ; and I 
expect by this time you have recieved my letter ; 2 since which nothing has 
happened of any consequence except the passage of the Land Ordinance 
and the arrival of Don Diego de Gardoqui at Philadelphia : I inclose 
you a copy of the Ordinance : and if it is not the best in the world, it 
is I am confident the best that could be procured for the present : There 
was such a variety of interests most of them imaginary, that I am only 
surprised it is not more defective. 

The Eastern people who before the revolution never had an idea of 
any quantity of Earth above a hundred acres, were for selling in large 

[139] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 85 ; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 460. 

2 See the Journals, May 20. Caswell's reply to this letter, July 20, is in N. C. 
State Recs., XVII. 484. The land ordinance is ibid., p. 451, the territorial ordinance ibid., 
p. 461. 

[140] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 
2 No. 118, ante. 



130 Continental Congress 

tracts of 30,000 acres while the Southern people who formerly could 
scarce bring their imaginations down so low as to comprehend the mean- 
ing of a hundred acres of ground were for selling the whole territory in 
lots of a mile square. 

In this situation we remained for eight days, with great obstinacy on 
both sides, untill a kind of compromise took effect. 8 .... 



141. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 

New York May 29th 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency copies of the 
late Indian treaties as also sundry resolutions of Congress for entering 
into a treaty with the Cherokees and all the other Indians southward of 
them within the limits of the United States for the purpose of making 
peace with them and receiving them into favour and protection and re- 
moving all causes of future contention quarrels [sic] 2 — and at the same 
time enclose the ordinance opening a land office in the several states which 
passed the 23d [20th] instant by the unanimous voice of all the States 
present — and we flatter ourselves is so adjusted as to give satisfaction to 
the State we have the honor to represent and at the same time we have 
the most confident expectation that in its operation it will considerably 
diminish the domestic debt by absorbing a great number of the public 
securities. The general opinion of the goodness of the soil in this western 
country and of the happy temperature of the climate, has been increasing 
with every new investigation of it, and we think it beyond a doubt that 
many of the creditors of the United States in the middle and southern 
parts of the Union have fixed their attention to this as a fund from which 
they shall soon be able to pay themselves. We submit it to the citizens 
of New Hampshire whether associations may not be formed for the 
purchase of townships in this territory for future settlements or dis- 
positions with advantag[e] the distance notwithstanding. It was the 
inclination of the eastern states in conformity to the usual mode of 
locating lands in that part of the country by townships, to have adhered 
to that method throughout the whole country to be disposed of by the 
ordinance but as a different method had always been adopted to the south- 
ward, it became necessary to agree to alternate by lots and townships on 
the principle of compromise. 8 

The design of a surveyor from each State was that by going into the 
country they might be able to communicate information to the states for 

8 Cf. nos. 106, 114, 118, 125, ante. Grayson wrote the following note to Washing- 
ton May 27 : " The Ordinance for the disposal of the Western territory was pass'd three 
days ago, and I take the earliest opportunity of inclosing you a copy." Library of Conr 
Washington Papers. 

[141] l Library of Congress, Force Trans., New Hampshire Records, Council Cor- 
respondence, 1 782- 1788 (signed by Foster and Long). 

2 See nos. 39, 127, ante, and the Journals, June 3. 

• Cf. nos. 130, 133, 136-140, ante, 142, 143, 151, post. 



May, 1785 131 

which they were appointed of the quality of the lands, and such other 
circumstances as may direct the citizens in making their purchases. We 
have nominated Mr. Nathaniel Adams of Portsmouth as a surveyor who 
is unanimously chosen, we wish he may accept his appointment, but should 
he decline we ask the attention of the legislature to this subject, and that 
they would send forward some suitable person who would undertake the 
business and we doubt not his immediate appointment, there is a com- 
mittee who we expect will report (tomorrow) a sum to be advanced to 
the several officers and men who are to proceed on this business. 4 

The estimate and requisition in the several states for the current year 
is reported by a committee and is now before Congress, we hope it will 
soon be passed but are afraid from the opposition we expect some parts 
of it will meet with in Congress that it will not be sent out soon enough 
to find our court in session, when that is finished we shall think it our 
duty as one of the foremost of other things to call up a report of a com- 
mittee on old paper money and get it adjusted in such a manner as a 
resolution may be had thereon. 5 By a letter from Don Diego De Gardoqui 
from Philadelphia we are informed of the arrival of that gentleman in 
that city, but in what character he is appointed by his catholic Majesty to 
the United States we at present are not able to inform you as his credentials 
have not been laid before congress. 6 

With the greatest reluctance we beg leave to inform your Excellency 
of our immediate want of money to defray our expences here, we have 
been borrowing of our friends for about two months, hope an opportunity 
will present whereby we may soon get a sufficient supply. 

142. Richard Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

New York May the 30th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... When I was in our Assembly it appeared to me rather to be 
the wish, than otherwise, that Kentucky should apply for separation, and 
I should suppose that if, when they found themselves compitent to the 
business of Self Government, they properly applied to our Assembly, no 
good objection could be made to a separation. For they have, and will 
remain for a long time, if not always, more expence than profit to the 
rest of the country. 2 

Washington County seems to be stimulated by a troublesome person 
who for self aggrandisement appears will'g to dismember that part also, 

4 See no. 133, note 3, ante. The aporopriation was made June 9. See further 
nos. 164, 180, post. 

6 Concerning the requisition see nos. 109, 122, 124, ante, 156, 160, post. 

6 See the Journals, May 27 (p. 400 n.), 30; also no. 137, ante, and no. 142, post. 
[142] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 364; Bancroft, 
Formation of the Constitution, I. 438 (parts). 

2 Lee is replying to a letter from Madison dated Mar. 20, which has not been 
found. See Madison's remarks on the Kentucky question in his letters of Mar. 10 (to 
Randolph), Apr. 27 (to Jefferson), May 29 (to Monroe), and his reply to Lee July 7. 
Except the first, they are in Writings (ed. Hunt), II. 132, 143, 147; all are in Letters 
(ed. 1865), I. 135, 145, 153, 157 (the reply to Lee having there the date July 5). 



132 Continental Congress 

and join with the Revolters from N. Carolina. This last seems to merit 
the wise and firm attention of Government and the Legislature. 3 We 
have, after much debate indeed and great waste of time, at last pass'd 
an Ordinance for disposing of such part of the Lands N. W. of the Ohio 
as belong to the U. S. and have been purchased of the Indians. If this 
proves agreeable to the public, it will extinguish about 10 Millions of 
the pub. debt. And the remaining lands, going southward to the Mil 
sippi, will nearly discharge all the domestic debt * — Besides the probable 
prospect that we have of considerable cessions from N. and S. Carolina 
and Georgia. This source does indeed deserve our warmest cultivation 
as it seems to be almost the only one that we have for discharging our 
oppressive debt. Dr. Franklin has leave to retire, Mr. Jefferson remains 
in France, and Mr. J. Adams is sent to London. If the Court of this 
last country is sincere, we may expect an amicable and easy settlement of 

existing differences between us Mr. Gardoque who calls himself 

Plenepotentiary charged with affairs is arrived at Phila. and we expect 
him soon here — So that we shall quickly know whether he can or will do 
any thing conclusive concerning the Navigation of Mississippi. 5 .... 
It seems very questionable now whether Congress will adjourn or not 
this Year — if they do, it will not be until late in August. Inattention, 
Sickness, and a variety of causes occasion business to go on very slowly. 

143. Rufus King to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York, May 30, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

The return and letter you transmitted to Genl. Knox some weeks since, 
are now before a committee of Congress, and the object of the reference 
is the abolition of the Department, similar proceedings are in examina- 
tion touching the Department of the commissary of military stores. 

Since the secretary at war, is expressly charged with the care of the 
last mentioned Department, I can see no reason for keeping it up seperttdy. 

It has been suggested that a proper allowance should be made to you 
for the Time employed in the settlement of the Accounts of your Depart- 
ment, and the Department abolished. Pray inform me what, if any, 
advantage will arise from keeping the Department in existence. 1 

8 The "troublesome person" was Col. Arthur Campbell. With regard to the 
Washington County affair see no. 127, note 2, ante; with regard to the revolters from 
North Carolina (" State of Franklin ") see nos. 10, 127 (note 2), ante, and no. 146, post. 
Respecting both affairs see Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 283, 292, 294, 307, 308, 310, 325; 
Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 18, 32, 34, 37, 42, 44, 45. 

4 Cf. nos. 129, 130, ante. 

8 Gardoqui's letter dated May 21, announcing his arrival in Philadelphia, was 
read in Congress May 27. See also the Journals, May 30, 31, June 7 (p. 440 n .). 14. 
July 2. The correspondence relating to his reception is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
III. 137-152. See nos. 137, 141, ante. 149, 153, 161, 167, 172, 173. post. 

[ 143] » Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 246; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of 
Rufus King (copy) ; Life of Kino. I. 103. 

May 11 a motion to repeal the resolution of Nov. 4. 1783, for continuing the 
office of commissary of military stores was referred to a committee of which King was 
chairman, the committee being further instructed to report upon the quartermaster de- 
partment, and on May 17 a letter of the secretary at war. with returns of the oommi 



June, I/85 133 

I transmit you a copy of the Land Ordinance such as it finally passed. 
All parties who have advocated particular modes of disposing of this 
Western Territory have relinquished some things they wished, and the 
ordinance is a compromise of opinions. 3 

It is proposed to hold a treaty on the Wabash to obtain a cession of 
Indian claims to the Land between the Ohio and Mississippi southerly. 
Would it not be preferable to try the sale of the lands already obtained, 
before we purchase farther ? Will not the Indian claims prevent emigrants 
on the western side of the Ohio ? Pray give me your sentiments. 4 

144. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, May 31, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency two acts of the United 
States in Congress assembled, one passed the 3d of November 1783 
directing the paymaster General to deposit in the hands of Regimental 
Agents the Certificates for the arrears of pay due to the Officers and 
Soldiers of the respective lines of the late Army to be by them delivered 
to the Individuals or deposited for their benefit as the Supreme Executive 
of their respective States shall direct. The other passed the 27th of the 
present month requesting the Legislature of the respective States to cause 
the services of the said Agents to be examined, and to make them such 
allowance as they shall think them entitled to. Your Excellency will be 
pleased to lay these before the Legislature of your State and communicate 
to me their determination, that I may report the same to Congress. 2 

145. James Monroe to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

June 2, 1785. 
Sir, 

The enclos'd Letter will inform you that one, and perhaps more of our 
citizens are still held in captivity in different quarters of the globe by the 

and quartermaster departments, was referred to the same committee. On July 20 the com- 
mittee offered two resolutions, the first effectuating the motion, the second for the aboli- 
tion of the quartermaster department. The first resolution was adopted that day, the 
second on July 25. See further the Journals, Sept. 22, 26, 29; cf. Life of Pickering, I. 516. 

3 See nos. 129, 130, 132, ante. 

4 Cf. nos. 82, 124, ante, 153, 156, 166, post. Pickering's reply to this letter is in 
Life of King, I. 104, dated at Philadelphia June 1. In it Pickering says, " I was yesterday 
favoured with your letter of the 30th ulto " ; and King's letter was endorsed by Pickering, 
" answ'd June 1st". If the dates of these 1 letters are correct and a letter written in New 
York was actually received in Philadelphia on the following day, it was an unusual oc- 
currence. On the subject of King's inquiry see also Pickering to King June 4 (ibid., 
p. 106), and Life of Pickering, I. 517 et seq. 

Ti44l 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book. VI. 83; Pa. State Lib., P. P., CXI., Library of 
Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 88; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 461; N. C. State Recs., 
XVII. 463- 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 16, May 27. Governor Caswell's reply, July 23, is in 
N. C. State Recs., XVII. 486. The Letter-Book copy has at the foot of the page the 
following notations : " To his Excellency of each of the States. In the letter to So. Carolina 
add I have also the pleasure of enclosing you an act of the 26 for supplying you with 
12 pc. of ordnance a copy of which I have sent to the Secy, at War." 

[145] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XVI., f. 451; Writings, 
I. 79- 



134 Continental Congress 

commandants of vessels and others without the authority of the King or 
ministers of G. B. will it be necessary to give an instruction to the minister 
of the U. S. at London upon this head similar to the one enclos'd, or may 
it not be effected without any act of Congress by your communication 
only? if the former sho'd be your opinion had it better originate with 
Congress than yourself? I sho'd suppose that you might effect it and in- 
duce the application of Mr. Adams under the treaty without any act 
of Congress. I submit it however to you and sho'd be glad of your opinion 
as soon as convenient. 2 



146. Richard Dobbs Spaight to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

New York 5th June 1785. 
Sir, 

On the 15th of May Mr. Cocke arrived here in the Character of Agent, 
for the inhabitants of the Counties of Washington, Greene, and Sullivan. 
whom it appears have declared themselves an independent State by the 
Title of " The State of Franklin ". The day following he presented, to 
the President of Congress a memorial from the Assembly of that State, 
praying Congress to accept the cession of No. Carolina, and to admit 
them into the Union. The memorial was laid before Congress, and read, 
but no Order either moved, or taken on it. A copy of the memorial I 
enclose to your Excellency. 2 

A day or two after a motion was made by a delegate from Massa- 
chusetts, that the Acts of the Genl. Assembly of the State of No. Carolina, 

2 There is nothing to indicate the identity of the case to which Monroe refers, but 
a similar case, that of Richard Low, was brought to the attention of Congress June 6 
through a letter from John Carter to David Howell, and Congress took action upon it 
June 9. Jay transmitted the proceedings of Congress and Carter's letter to Adams Aug. 3 
(Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 418), and Adams replied Oct. 21 (ibid., p. 483, and 
Works, VIII. 325). 
[146]' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 464. 

2 The memorial from the State of Franklin, which is without date, is in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 48. f. 291, and the certificate of William Cocke's appointment as a^cnt. 
dated Mar. 12, 1785, is ibid., f. 295. Both are printed in Williams, The Lost SUA 
Franklin, pp. 79-80. It is to be observed however that, in the last clause of Cocke's 
credentials as there printed, the word " interest " should be intent, so that the clause should 
read, " and to make such representation as he may find conducive to the intent and in- 
dependence of this country ". Although the Journals do not record any " order either 
moved or taken " on the memorial, Secretary Thomson recorded ( Despatch Book under 
May 16) the receipt of the memorial (see no. 127, note 2, ante), and an inve^ 
the matter was initiated. See note 3, below; cf. no. 142, ante, and nos. 153, 158, 168, pott. 
The following letters of this period pertain to the Franklin movement : John Sevier to 
Governor Martin Mar. 22. 1785 (N. C. State Recs.. XVII. 623, XXII. 640) ; the Franklin 
Assembly to Governor Martin Mar. 22 (ibid.. XVII. 601, dated Feb. 22; XXII. I 
Governor Martin to the council Apr. 7 (ibid., XVII. 435), to the assembly Apr. 25 (ibid.. 
XVII. 439); manifesto of Governor Martin Apr. 25 (ibid., XVII. 440, XXII. I 
John Tipton to Martin May 13 (ibid., XXII. 648) ; Fvan Shelby to Martin May 14 (ibid., 
XXII. 647) ; Sevier to Caswell May 14 (ibid., XVII. 446) ; Caswell to Sevier June 17 
(ibid., XVII. 471). The Franklin Movement is treated at large in Samuel C. Williams, 
The lost State of Franklin ; more briefly by G. H. Alden, " The State of Franklin 
Am. Hist. Rev.. VIII. 271-189; by T. P. Abernethy, From Frontier to Plantation in 
Tennessee, ch. V.; and by Roosevelt, Winning of the West, vol. III., chs. IV., V. 



June, 1785 135 

granting and repealing the cession, should be refered to a Committee; 
in order that they might report whether Congress had, or had not a right 
to accept the cession, and whether it was not still binding upon the State, 
notwithstanding the repealing Act : They were accordingly committed, 
and a report made on the 20th may. Contrary to the established rule, the 
report was taken up, and acted on, the same day, without allowing any 
time for consideration or giving any notice to the member from the States. 
As I had been indisposed for some time before and was at that time, 
far from being well, I was not in Congress, tho' had I known that, that 
subject would have been before the house I should certainly have been 
there. Notwithstanding I think that congress have in this instance, 
treated the State and myself with a great degree of indelicacy, I shall only 
observe upon their proceedings, that in my Opinion too great an avidity, 
in a part of Congress, for western Territory, have hurried them into a 
measure, the consequences of which they have not considered, and I am 
sure in their cooler moments, and abstracted from interested motives, 
they wou'd condemn. A copy of the report and proceedings thereon I 
enclose to your Excellency. The Report does not do much credit to the 
Abilities of the gentlemen who drew it, (tho' it convinces me that my 
opinion is right, " that they are willing to have the land on any terms ",) 
as the latter clause, which is the only one agreed to, is an absolute contra- 
diction to every other part of it. 3 

I inclose your Excellency a note I reed, from Mr. De Marbois, respect- 
ing the debt due by the State to the Government of Martinique. 4 

I forward to your Excellency the Ordinance for ascertaining the mode 
of disposing of the lands in the western territory. 5 In my opinion it never 
will answer the End proposed, for before this formal and hitherto unheard 
of plan can be carr[i]ed into Execution, the lands will be possessed by 
persons, who have already and are daily crossing the Ohio, in great 

8 A committee (King, Johnson, Grayson, Ellery, and McHenry) was appointed 
May 18 " to examine the Acts of the state of N. Carolina touching a cession of Western 
territory and report" {Journals, p. 369 n.). A report was brought in on May 20, which 
included a declaration that North Carolina's repeal of the act of cession (June 2, 1784) 
was invalid, and a further declaration of the acceptance of the cession by Congress. These 
parts of the report met with a negative, but a recommendation to North Carolina " to 
consider the principles of the magnanimity and justice " that induced the act of cession 
and to execute a deed for the ceded territory was adopted. According to Williamson 
(no. 168, post) the motion was first made on Friday May 13 and renewed on Monday 
or Tuesday (May 16, 17) following. The report was drawn by Rufus King, and the 
resolution adopted began, "As the commonwealth of Massachusetts have made a cession ", 
etc., disregarding the fact that New York and Virginia had also made cessions. On Mon- 
day May 23 therefore (Spaight was then present), on a motion by Monroe and Grayson 
for a reconsideration, the resolution was amended so as to read, "As the State of New 
York, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have 
each made a cession ", etc. 

4 The note from Marbois to Spaight May 18 is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 450. 
See also ibid., pp. 273-275, 439, 475, 479, 488, 502, 596, XVIII. 575, 598, 600, 688, 740, 
748, 771. The letter in XVII. 596 (Marbois to Martin) has the date-line " Philadelphia 
15, 1785 ", but its probable date is Jan. 15, 1785. A letter of that date from Marbois 
(N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers), probably to the North Carolina dele- 
gates, appears to support that assumption. A letter from Marbois (probably to Spaight), 
May 19 is ibid. Cf. nos. 490, 615, post. 

8 See no. 139, ante. 



136 Continental Congress 

numbers, so as to put the United States to more expence to dispossess 
them, then the soil will afterwards sell for. 

The State of South-Carolina have applied to Congress, for a foederal 
court, to determine the dispute about Jurisdiction and territory sub- 
sisting between them and the State of Georgia. They claim all the terri- 
tory lying to the northward of a due west line to be drawn from what 
they call the head of the River Savannah, (that is where the Tugelo and 
Keowee Join where it takes the name of Savannah,) to the Mississipi, and 
to the south of our line: And all the territory lying to the south of the 
Altamaha and a due west line to be drawn from the head of that river 
to the Mississipi, and to the north of the Floridas as bounded by the 
Treaty. 6 

North-Carolina has not been represented since Doctor Williamson's 
time expired, nor do I hear any accounts of the other delegates coming. 7 
I shall leave this city in a few days to return home. 8 

The requisition for the present year is not yet made, and 9evera] other 
important matters remain to be acted on, from which I am led to believe 
that Congress will not have a recess this Summer. 

6 See the Journals, May 13 (p. 361 n.), 17 (p. 365 n.), June 1. Secretary Thom- 
son's notice (dated June 2) to the governor of Georgia, as required by the resolution of 
June 1, is in Georgia Archives, Georgia-South Carolina Boundary. See further nos. 502, 
664, post. 

1 Rufus King remarked in a letter to Elbridge Gerry June 5 (Life of King. I. 108; 
Life of Gerry. I. 403) : "Georgia is represented. North Carolina and Delaware unrepre- 
sented. We have eleven States on the floor." See no. 168, post. 

8 Spaight last attended June 6. Cf. no. 158, post. Following is the account for 
attendance rendered by him in September (see Journal of the House of Commons, D< 
20, 22; N. C. State Recs.. XVII. 337, 369, 379), copied from the original, then in the 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia : 

" 1784. To Richard Dobbs Spaight 

To my going to an Attendance as a delegate in Congress and the Com- 
mittee of the States from the 22d of October 1783 to the 20th August 

1 784 is Ten months at £80 per month £800 

Sepr. To one month allowed me to return home 80 

1785. To my attendance as a delegate to Congress from 3d Novem'r 1784 to 

the 6th June 1785 is 7 months at £80 560 

July 15. To two months salary allowed me, to bear my Expences going to and 

returning from Congress, at £80 160 

£1600 
1783. Cr. 

Sepr. By Cash reed, for Governor Martins Warrants in my favor for 

8 months salary £640 

1784. 
Augt. 20. By four Warrants drawn by Governor Martin in my favor for 

£100 each 400 

Octobr. By four Warrants for £100 each and one for £80 drawn by Gov- 
ernor Martin in my favor, is 480 £1520 

balance due R. D. Spaight £ 80 " 



June, 1785 137 

147. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 

New York 8th June 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the hon'r of transmitting the Journals, as compleat as we have 
been able to procure them from the Secretarys Office, and at the same 
time to inform your Excellency, that Congress have it in contemplation 
to furnish a new impression, containing those parts, which in the course 
of the late War have been carried to the secret Journal. 2 

We have the hon'r to be Your Excellencys most Obedt. Servts. 

Abiel Foster 
Pierse Long 
His Excellency The Presidt. of New Hamp'r. 



148. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, June 9, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency an act of the 
United States in Congress assembled for the relief of the officers Soldiers 
and seamen, who have been disabled in the service of the United States 
during the late war. 

As the condition of many of these unfortunate men, who have a claim 
not merely on the humanity but on the gratitude and justice of their 
country, demands immediate attention, I have the firmest confidence that 
the state of [blank'] will take the earliest opportunity of making the 
provision recommended in the inclosed act. 2 

Having received no answer to my letter of the 12 April last covering 
the acts of Congress of the 1, 7 and 12 of that month relative to the 
raising a body of troops for the purposes therein mentioned, I must con- 
tinue my request that your Excellency would be pleased to communicate 
to me the steps taken by the state of Pensylvania for raising the quota 
assigned, that I may be enabled to make report to Congress. 

[I47] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Records, Council Corr., 1782- 
1788. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 17 (p. 7 n.), Apr. 8, June 1, 21, 29, Aug. 26, Nov. 30 
(p. 895 n.), Dec. 28 (p. 909 n.), 1785; Jan. 30, Aug. 15 (p. 520 n.), Sept. 6 (p. 639 n.), 
13, 1786. 

[148] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 94; Pa. Arch., first sen, 
X. 472; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 467 (except the last paragraph). 

2 The first two paragraphs of this letter were sent to all the states except Penn- 
sylvania and Connecticut. The last paragraph was addressed to Pennsylvania only. The 
letter to Connecticut (Letter-Book, p. 94) acknowledged the governor's letter of June 4, 
with which was transmitted a resolve of the assembly for raising the troops required by 
the acts of Apr. 1, 7. and 12. The act enclosed was that of June 7. See also the Journals, 
Apr. 27. Governor Caswell's reply, Aug. 4, is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 499. 



138 Continental Congress 

149. Richard Henry Lee to the Marquis de Lafayette. 1 

New York, June nth, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 The plan for opening the navigation of the western waters, 
goes on well — already more than 40,000 pounds are subscribed for open- 
ing the Potomac, and General Washington, is chosen president of the 
society, that superintends that business. The settling a mode for survey- 
ing and selling the fine country, north-west of Ohio river, for the purpose 
of discharging our public debt, is an object that hath engaged much 
attention of Congress, and promises, we think, in due season, to remove 
the debts created by the last war. Mr. Gardoque, from Spain, is arrived 
at Philadelphia, and we daily expect him in this city ; it is to be hoped, 
that the good sense and honour of his court, will finally settle into such 
measures, as are just and reasonable. 8 

150. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen. 1 

New York June 13, 1785. 
My Dear Nephew, 

.... When Congress determined to indulge the Doctor, upon his 
request, with leave to retire, the business of communicating that deter- 
mination was expressly assigned to the Secretary for foreign affairs among 
the other duties of his Office, And did not enter at all into my business. 
In me it would have been work of supererogation and I think myself 
warranted in doing justice to the honorable Secretary for foreign Affairs 
by assuring you that his information was sent by the earliest good oppor- 
tunity that offered after the Act of Congress passed. 2 .... 

\_149] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 369; Lee. Life of Lee, II. 66. 

2 Lafayette's letter to which Lee is replying, dated Mar. 16, is ibid., II. 109, original 
in Am. Phil. Soc., Lee Papers, II. 282. 

8 See nos. 137, 141, 142, ante, 153. 161, 167, 172, 173, post. 
[1 50] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 371. 

2 Shippen appears to have raised the question whether Lee as President had noti- 
fied Franklin of the permission of Congress that he might return to America (permission 
was granted Mar. 7; see also the Journals, Jan. 21). In the resolution there is no express 
instruction to the secretary for foreign affairs to notify Franklin, but Jay did so the next 
day (the letter is in the Library of Congress, Franklin Papers), and Franklin acknowl- 
edged it May 10 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 395)- Lee wrote to Shippen June 
22: "Since my former letter in answer to your last I have spoken with Mr. Seen 
Jay and he assures me that he sent by the first Packet that sailed after the Act of Congress 
passed a Notification to Dr. Franklin that he had leave to retire. How causeless then, 
and how improper was a censure placed on me in whose department it was not, and 
when he in whose line it was, had actually done it?!" Letters (ed. Ballagh). II. 375- 



June, 1785 139 

151. Richard Henry Lee to William Short. 1 

New York June the 13th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... It is a point of much uncertainty whether Congress will adjourn 
or not this summer, but if they do, it will probably not be before the 
middle of August. When they adjourn I shall go home, but if they do 
not adjourn, I shall of course be detained here until the end of the federal 
year, the first monday in November. 

.... Congress has just finished an Ordinance for surveying and 
selling that part of the Land N. W. of Ohio that has been lately purchased 
of the Indians, for the purpose of discharging our public debts. This 
will present about 10 Millions of Acres for sale at one dollar an Acre of 
Liquidated Certificate debt. 2 Subsequent treaties to be held with the 
Indians will extinguish their claims to about 20 millions more which it is 
intended to devote to the same purpose and which will very nearly pay off 
our whole domestic debt. 3 The foreign will then not be found oppressive. 
An American Coinage, and the regulation of the Post Office, with some 
other affairs of importance are now under consideration of Congress. 4 
We hope that the powers and directions given by Congress to our 
Ministers abroad, will secure peace for us with the Barbary States and 
free our Trade from the embarrassement threatened by them. I incline to 
think however, that Commercial finesse has been more operative than the 
enmity of those people to distress the American Commerce. 5 

Being much engaged with public business at this time, I must conclude 
with presenting my best respects to my old friend Mr. Jefferson. 

152. Samuel Hardy to William Short. 1 

New york 14th June 1785. 
Dear sir, 

Your favor of the 29th of Jany. which is the second only I have re- 
ceived from you since your arrival in Paris came to hand a few days ago. 
It would have reached me rather earlier; but I have been detained in 
Virginia during the Months of April and May in making some small 
advances in the line of my profession previous to my leaving Congress. 2 

[iSi^Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, II. 68 (note on the letter by R. Gilmor 
says, "given to me by Mr. Short to whom it is addressed in 1834") ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Myers Coll., Declaration of Independence (facsimile, fragment) ; ibid., Emmet Coll., 
no. 3766 (facsimile, dated in Calendar, June 17) ; Brotherhead, Book of Signers (1861), 
p. 95; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 372. 

2 See the Journals, May 20, also nos. 129, 130, 132, 133, 136-143, ante. 

3 C/. nos. 124, 129, 137, ante, 153, 157, post. 

4 Concerning the proposed coinage see vol. VII., nos. 573 and 584 ; also the 
Journals, Jan. 18 (pp. 6 n., 8 n.), May 13, July 6, 28 (p. 587 n.) ; also nos. 172, 182, 203, 
217, post. Concerning the regulation of the post office see the Journals, Jan. 13 (p. 3 n.), 
18 (p. 7 n.), Feb. 28, Mar. 14 (p. 159 n.), Apr. 4 (p. 231 n.), 8 (p. 243 n.), 26 (p. 308 n.), 
May 18 (p. 365 n.), June 30, July 12, 15 (p. 541 n.), 18 (p. 550 n.), Sept. 1 (p. 673 n.), 
7, 12 (p. 694 n.), 26 (p. 764), Oct. 3 (p. 805 n.), 5, Dec. 27 (p. 904 n.) ; also nos. 203, 
241, post. 

5 See nos. 57, 68, 117, ante. 

[152] 1 Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, I. 42. 

2 Hardy had been absent since about Apr. 6 (see no. 95, ante). 
16 



140 Continental Congress 

I saw your Brother Peyton and the most of your friends and have the 
pleasure of informing you they were well. 

As to any great fund of public information you will scarcely expect 
it from this quarter. We have but little that is worth giving, but even 
that little it is imprudent to commit to paper but in Cypher: I have every 
reason to suspect that your last letter had been opened before I received 
it. I cannot however forego the pleasure of informing you that I think 
our Affairs on this side the Water begin to take a more favorable turn. 
Public credit is encreasing and the foederal Government begins to acquire 
some small degree of respect. Could we but rescue our Commerce from 
the restrictions to which it is subjected in several ports of Europe but 
more particularly in those of Great Britain, the effects would be im- 
mense. 8 .... 

Believe me My dear sir I shall not be inattentive to the Subject of the 
Postscript you enclosed. Indeed I had anticipated the request it contain'd, 
very long before it came to hand. The only difficulty that will oppose itself 
on the first appointment of the kind that is made, will be the Grandson of 
Doctr. F — k — In and Colo. Humphreys. The Character in which the first 
of these Gentlemen has long acted, and the one in which the latter was 
sent to Europe aided by an honorary engagement on the part of Conj^ 
to Genl. Washington, to make some provision for him, will 1 expect In- 
considered as giving them the first claim for preferment in that particular 
line. After this, a road will be opened for you, and be assured I shall 
not let an opportunity of serving you pass, during my continuance in 
Congress. 4 . . . . 



P S: (no. 2) I this day brought on the question of appointing a 
Minister to the Hague; merely to collect the sentiments of Congress rela- 
tive to foreign appointments in general. The views of Gentlemen on this 
subject appear various indeed. Some are for having Ministers plenipoten- 
tiary at the several Courts of Europe, others are against adding to the 
number of those already appointed. Some are decided on the propriety of 
appointing a Secretary to each Minister (as a secretary to the Legation) 
so soon as they become fixed at the different Courts where they are to 
reside : and others are averse to such appointments on the ground of 
Oeconomy and a supposition that private Secretaries only will be sufficient. 
With an eye to this particular business I sometime ago advocated the 
appointment of a Secreatary of Legation to the Court of London. And 
on its being very easily carried did conceive the principle so well established 
that my surprise was great at the Opposition it has now indirectly met 
with. But whatever may be the system I shall act for you as under similar 
Circumstances I should wish you to do for myself: I shall not risque a 

8 A paragraph chiefly relating to matters legislative in Virginia is here omitted. 
Touching the proceedings of the Virginia legislature see Madison's letters of Jan. 9 
(to Jefferson), Apr. 12 (to Monroe), and Apr. 27 (to Jefferson), in Writings, II. 102, 
129, 132. 

* Short was seeking a diplomatic appointment. See the postscript and no. 153, post. 
Jefferson presently made him his private secretary (letter to Monroe Aug. 28, Writings, 
IV. 84). 



June, 1785 141 

Nomination without a pretty good ground of success, nor shall I omit 
any opportunity that appears to promise it. Present my most friendly 
regards to Mr. Jefferson, and assure him that my not writing him arises 
only from a Conviction that he has from Monroe every information 
which I could give him, and that too numerous a train of Correspondents 
is rather a source of embarrasment than pleasure. 

153. William Grayson to William Short. 1 

New York June 15th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the packett has been duly received for which I am much 
obliged to you, and I make use of this opportunity by Mr. Mazzei to 
answer it. 

I arrived at this place early in March, since which nothing of any great 
importance has taken effect except the land ordinance which is herewith 
inclosed : a difference of sentiment between the Eastern and Southern 
part of the Continent and an imaginary difference of interests has made 
the Ordinance less perfect than it might have been. 2 Congress are about 
directing a treaty to be held with the Western Indians at Post Vincent 
on the Wabash this summer for extinguishing their rights to the territory 
between the Miami and Missisippi; should this be effected, I expect the 
Ordinance will be made to apply to that country, immediately as the 
paying the domestic debt in this way seems to be an object which every 
one has very much at heart : Indeed the necessity of the measure is glar- 
ing, for while the taxes continue high, we shall have no emigrants from 
beyond seas, and the want of inhabitants is perhaps our only calamity. 3 
A very considerable part of No. Carolina has revolted ; They have assumed 
the powers of Governm't and a Capt. Cocke was here the other day with 
authority from them to solicit admission. 4 Georgia has laid off a county 
on the Missisippi called Bourbon and settlers are gathering fast about the 
Natchez. 5 

There is a report that the province of Maine begin to make speeches 
respecting independence ; Vermont remains as it did when you left this. 

Inclosed is the report of a comm'ee for altering the 9th article of the 
confederation ; 8 States will be for it, but whether or not it will suit the 
5 Southern States, is a point very questionable : perhaps some modifi- 
cation may be found out that will make it palatable. As the sending this 

[ 1 53] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, II. 50; Pa. Magazine of Hist, and 
Biog., XXIX. 203. 

2 See nos. 106, 114, 118, 124, 125, 140, ante. 

3 See nos. 124, 12Q, 137, 151, ante, 156, 173, 175, post. In the report adopted 
June 15 one of the instructions to the commissioners was "that they prohibit the settle- 
ment of all persons, not properly authorized for that purpose, upon the unappropriated 
Lands of the United States, and that they cause to be circulated in the said country, the 
following proclamation : " The proclamation, signed by Richard Henry Lee, President 
of Congress, is printed in the Gazette of the State of Georgia, Aug. II, 1785. 

4 See nos. 127, 146, ante, 156, 158, 168, 192, post; see also the Journals, Oct. 7, 
12, 13. 

5 See "Papers relating to Bourbon County, Georgia", in Am. Hist. Rev., XV. 
66-1 11, 207-353; also Arthur Campbell to Governor Henry, May 21, in Gal. Va. State 
Papers, IV. 30. 



142 Continental Congress 

report is against rule, I hope you will take good care that it is not made 
public, indeed I think it would be best to keep it a secret. 6 It seems to 
be a doubt in Congress whether the instructions to the Comm'rs ought 
not to be changed : The principle of making treaties and granting to all 
the right of the most favored nations, begins to be disputed. This though 
entre nouz, and what I would not chuse should be mentioned to any one. T 

Congress have had two ineffectual tryals for the election of a minister 
to the Hague vice John Adams, Rutledge of So. Carolina, Governor 
Levingston and R. H. Harrison of Maryland the persons nominated. 

As the Dutch Minister grows uneasy I think that Rutledge will be 
elected very soon, and in all probability to-day. 8 

Don Diego de Gardoqui charge dcs affaires from the Court of Spain 
is arrived at Philada. and is expected here every day ; what are the objects 
of his mission we are at a loss to determine. 9 

.... I imagine you must have heard before this, that an American 
vessel had arrived here in four months from Canton in China laden with 
manufactures of that country; and that our country men at that place 
had as much respect and civility shewn them as those of any other nation. 
The opinion here is that this trade can be carried on to great advantage. 10 

154. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, June 16th 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that the United States in Congress 
Assembled have upon reconsideration, been pleased to discharge me of 
their order for printing Mr. Shaws letter, and have referred to you so 
much only of the report on his Letter as respects the " informing Mr. 
Shaw that Congress feel a peculiar Satisfaction in the Successful issue 
of this first effort of the Citizens of America to establish a direct trade 
with China which does so much honor to its undertakers and conductors." 

I therefore enclose Mr. Shaws letter and return to you the two pieces 
of Silk which accompanied it.* 

6 See nos. 19 (note 4), 101 (note 4), 118, 125, ante, 156, 17s, 182, 183, 194, 196, post. 

7 See the Journals, May 18, June 2; also no. 101, ante; cf. nos. 15c. 203, 
post. 

8 See the Journals, June 23. 27, July 5; cf. nos. 65 (note 3), ior (note 7), 112, 
124, ante, 161, 167, 169, 170, 191, 210, post. 

9 See the Journals. May 27 (p. 400 n.), 30 (pp. 402, 403 n.), 31, June 7 (p. 440 n. ), 
14 (P- 459 n.). 17, 28, July 2, 6 (p. 515 n.), 12; cf. nos. 137, 141, 142, 149, ante, 161, 167, 
172, 173. 175. 179. post. 

10 See nos. 129 (note 3), 134, 136, ante, and no. 154, post. Preceding this passage 
are some remarks respecting the Potomac Company. 

[ 1 54] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 275; ibid.. Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 96; Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 766. 

'See the Journals, May 31 (p. 407 n.), June 9, also nos. 129, 134, i.v>. 153, ante. 
The order with regard to printing Samuel Shaw's letter and its rescinding are MM 
recorded in the Journals. See however the erased entry in the report of June 9 (Journals. 
June 16, p. 463 n.), Jay's inquiry June 22 respecting the pieces of silk (ibid., p. 474 n.), 
and Jay's letter to Shaw June 23 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 766). On Jan. 26, 
1786, it was resolved to appoint a consul at Canton, and on the 27th Shaw was chosen. 
See ibid., pp. 768-771. 



June, 1785 143 

155. Samuel Holten to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

New York, 16th June, 1785. 
Sir, 

The enclosed application to Congress came to hand yesterday, it pro- 
duced no determination, but was delivered to the delegates of Mass'tts; 
and it has been thought adviseable by them, that your Excellency and the 
Honorable court should be made acquainted therewith; and for that 
purpose I have forwarded the same. 2 



156. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York June 16, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

By Colo. Smith Secry. to the London Legation I wrote you in April 
last very fully upon our transactions previous to that date. 2 I also inclos'd 
you the journals, that were then printed with a copy of a report upon the 
first paragraph of the 9th of the articles of Consideration proposing a 
change in it and the absolute investment of the U. S. with the controul 
of commerce. I now inclose you a copy of the journals as well those 
sent by Colo. Smith as those since printed, likewise an ordinance for 

surveying and disposing of the lands beyond the Ohio The report 

upon the 9th article hath not been taken up. the importance of the subject 
and the deep and radical change it will create in the bond of the union 
together with the conviction that something must be done seems to create 
an aversion or rather a fear of acting on it. If the report sho'd ultimately 
be adopted it will certainly form the most permanent and powerful prin- 
ciple in the confideration. At present the alliance is little more than an 
offensive and defensive one, and if the right to raise troops at pleasure 
is denied, merely a defensive one. the political oeconomy of each State 
is entirely within its own direction and to carry into effect its regulation 
with other powers to attain any substantial ends to the State they must 
apply as well to the States of the union as other powers, and such a course 
as this will produce very mischievous effects, on the other hand the effect 
of this report will be to put the commercial oeconomy of every State 
entirely under the hands of the union. The means, necessary to obtain 
the carrying trade, to encourage domestic by a tax on foreign industry, 
or any other ends which in the changes of things become necessary, will 
depend intirely on the union. In short you will perceive that this will 
give the union an authority upon the States respectively which will last 
with it and patch it together in its present form longer than any principle 
it now contains will effect The subject [is] of great magnitude 

[155]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 No clue to the identity of this application has been found. 
[ 1 56] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 80; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, I. 439. 

2 Apr. 12 (no. 101, ante). 



144 Continental Congress 

and I very earnestly wish to hear from you on it before it obtains its 
fate and this I am pursuaded may be the case especially if the letter by 
Colo. Smith obtain'd a ready conveyance. 3 I inform'd you in my letter 
by Mr. Smith that a Committee was appointed to revise the instructions 
subsisting to our commiss'rs authoriz'd to form commerc'l treaties and 
report what alterations if any were necessary, this Committee hath 
reported and repeal'd the two first articles. I think it will be adopted, 
as I have no cypher I cannot risque any thing upon this head further than 
to observe that the letter I allude to will serve to give you some idea of 
the alteration. It is prefac'd with reasoning upon the propriety of the 
alteration, upon which it is form'd and of course if the reasoning is illy 
founded the superstructure falls to the ground. I hope the whole will 
either be adopted or negativ'd for it will, if adopted, enable our ministers 
to investigate the truth of the positions and represent them to us, which 
their situation enables them to effect. 4 There seems in Congress an earnest 
disposition to wind up our affairs as they respect foreign nations, exclude 
their interests totally from our councils, and preserving our faith with 
the utmost punctuality with those to whom it is plighted, make such 
regulations as will effectually promote our interests. Information and a 
knowledge in what it consists are the only points in which they are 
defective. I have never seen a body of men collected in which there was 
less party, for there is not the shadow of it here. I think there will be no 
adjournment and I sincerely wish there may not be for I fear it will not 
be easy to collect men from the States with more upright intentions. 
That you may have in view whatever is in agitation respecting the western 
country, to judge of the system, if there is one I enclose you the copy of 
a report now before Congress wh. comprehends whatever is propos'd to 
be done respecting it, for the present, upon the report of the Indian 
Commiss'rs the matter will again be taken up and then it will be deter- 
min'd what authority Congress will exercise over the people who may 
settle within the bounds of either of the new States previous to the 
establishment of a temporary govt, whether they will leave them to them- 
selves or appoint magistrates over them. I think the enclos'd report will 
be adopted: it hath been several times before Congress 8 and each time 
there were 8. States; to morrow it is believed there will be 9. 

8 See no. 153, note 6, ante, and nos. 175, 182, 183, 194, 196, post. Jefferson's reply, 
Aug. 28, is in Writings (ed. Ford). IV. Kj. 

*The report is in the Journals, June 2. Cf. nos. 101, 153, ante, 175, 203, post. 

8 See no. 101, note 15, ante. Since Dec. 9, 1784, when Francois Carbonr* 
laid before Congress a memorial of the inhabitants of Kaskaskia, Congress had c 
occasional consideration to the establishment of a government for the French inhabitants 
of Illinois. The memorial of the inhabitants, dated Nov. 10, 1784, is in Illinois Hist, 
Collections, II. 567-573; that of Carbonneaux as agent, dated at Trenton Dec. 8, 
is ibid., V. 369. On Feb. 9, 1785, a petition of earlier date (June 16-22, 1784, ibid., 
pp. 360-368) from a rival faction was laid before Congress and referred to the same 
committee to whom the Carbonneaux memorial had been referred. The committee brought 
in a report Feb. 15 (ibid., p. 370; also the Journals), and on Feb. 21 Congress adopted 
one recommendation of the committee, namely, that one or more commissioners be ap- 
pointed to repair to the Kaskaskias and the Illinois settlements, while the remaind< 
the report was referred to another committee. Nominees for the office of commissioner 
were: Isaac Smith (Feb. 21), Henry Marchant and William Stephens Smith 1 I 
The last named was elected Mar. 1. On Mar. 4 the committee of Feb. 21 recommended 



June, 1785 145 

The plan of a requisition is before congress. The States have failed 
essentially during the last year in making their payments. Virga. hath pd. 
I believe more than all the rest, the present plan is the pressure of the 
requisition of 8,000,000 as was that of the last year. The amt. necessary 
for the current year, abt. 3,000,000 — 1. for the interest upon the foreign 
debt and expenses of govt, and, 2. the domestic debt. For the latter pur- 
pose facilities are propos'd to be admitted. I must confess I doubt the 
propriety of pressing old requisitions, and think it wo'd be better to ascer- 
tain what had been pd. by the several States upon that requisition, and 
upon the apportionment under it, what claims those paying most had on 
the others, and then begin anew, making also a new apportionment ; this 
wo'd be more simple and better understood. I am also rather doubtful of 
the propriety of doing any thing whatever in the domestic debt. Several 
of the States, Pena. in particular hath appropriated her money to her own 
citizens only, from her and the other states, taking the same course, we 
shall have no support, it appears then better to recommend it to the States 
to take on themselves the debts of the U. S. to their citizens, respectively, 
let them be pd. by State operations, and then after liquidating the whole, 
and the quota of each is ascertain'd, of the proportion of expences, of the 
late war, let the balance which either shall have advanc'd beyond its pro- 
portion be paid it by the union. This is a new idea nor do I know that 
I shall suggest it further, but perhaps may hereafter more especially if 
it shall appear founded in justice and expedience. 

During the recess of Congress last year No. Carolina made a cession 
of territory to the U S. authorizing her Delegates to make the deed, 
before Congress conven'd she repeal'd it. Lately a motion was made and 
a report upon it accepting the cession supposing the acceptance conclusive 
on the State. I was surpris'd to find it had so many advocates, there being 
six States in favor of it. I suspected it wo'd have again been taken up 

that three hundred dollars be advanced to Carbonneaux (such a recommendation, but with 
the amount unnamed, is in the report of Feb. 15), and Congress gave order for the payment. 
On Mar. 14 the committee of Feb. 21 reported a plan for the government for those communi- 
ties {Journals; also ///. Hist. Colls., V. 371-373) ; and it was doubtless this report that 
Monroe transmitted to Jefferson. Thursday, March — (17? 24? 31?) was assigned for 
consideration of the report, but the plan appears to have been thrust aside for the time 
being, probably in view of the larger project for the government of the western territory, 
which was now and then puttered with during the next two years and more. One tenta- 
tive step was however taken on June .15 (though rescinded June 29), when the com- 
missioners to treat with the Indians were instructed to " endeavour to obtain from the 
Inhabitants of Kaskaskies, St. Vincents, and others, a statement of their rights to lands 
within the said country guaranteed to them by Congress, in their acceptance of the Vir- 
ginia cession ". An effort to revive the report of Mar. 14 was made by the secretary of 
Congress in a report of Dec. 28, 1785 {Journals; also III. Hist. Colls.. V. 411, but there 
dated 1788), and finally, on Mar. 27, 1786, the report of Mar. 14, 1785, was referred to 
a committee, with instructions to report a plan for the government of the western terri- 
tory prior to the institution of the government provided for under the act of Apr. 23, 
1784. See further nos. 373, 394, 425, 483, post. 

6 See nos. 75, 87, 91, 109, 115, 118, 122, 124, 125, 132, 133, ante. The subject of 
requisitions had lain practically dormant for nearly two months, but was revived upon 
the presentation of the treasury report June 9, which was referred June 13 to the grand 
committee on the requisition. It was nearly a month however before the committee was 
again ready to report. See the Journals, July 7 (erased entry), 11, 14; also nos. 171, 
172, 173 182, 184, 191, post. 



146 Continental Congress 

but was agreeably disappointed, the act gave Congress a year to accept 
it in and uses the term at the end of it " provided it shall not be accepted 
within that time it shall revert to the State ". Yet I co'd not conceive it 
obligatory on the State untill accepted by the U S. and of course untill 
that event within the controul of the State, the people within the said 
territory had separated themselves from the State and declar'd themselves 
an independent state under the name of Franklin, their agent was also 
here at the time upon that subject, he reed, no countenance whatever, 
and all that was done relative to it was to renew the recommendation to 
the State to make a 2d cession. 7 It is in contemplation to send a Committee 
to No. Carolina and Georgia upon the subject of western land and of 
finance to press their attention to those subjects, 8 but of this as well as 
of the other objects to which their attention may be turn'd I will write 
you more fully in my next, the great points which will be before the 
Union as well in those lines as that of commerce will perhaps have taken 
their ultimate direction here in a few months or in the course of the year 
and then the several legislatures will be the theatre of investigation. 
Committees of Congress may perhaps expedite their passage 

157. Rufus King to Timothy Pickering. 1 

Xi -:\v York 17th June 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Whether Mr. Hillegas will come on to this city is yet uncertain, but 
must be determined very soon. He will reside here or go out of office. 
Should the latter event happen, I do assure you that my duty would be 
more faithfully discharged in the appointment of a successor to Mr. 
Hillegas than by aiding in your election. 

An opinion which previous to the receit of yours by Doct. Craigie. I 
had given touching the conduct of Mr. Hillegas, had drawn upon me the 
imputation of wishing him a successor, and at this time prevents my 
sounding the opinions of gentlemen on your subject. But should Mr. 
Hillegas resign or be dismissed, I shall be at liberty to pursue my wishes 
and your interests. 

Doct. cockran of this city, I believe, has in view this appointment ; who. 
if any person, will support his pretensions, I am uniformed. 2 

1 See nos. 146, 153. ante, 168, 192, post. 

8 No motion of this purport is in the Journals at this time. See however the pro- 
posal of Mar. 15 (Journals, p. 162). 

[i57] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 251; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Papers of 
Rufus King (copy) ; Life of King, I. 54 (extract 1. 

2 Pickering had written to King June 9 : "I have heard that the Treasurer's office 
is likely to become vacant. If such vacancy should happen. I shall then be willing to 
stand a candidate to supplv it, if there is a prospect of obtaining an election" (Life of 
King, I. 54). On June 16 Pickering wrote on the same subject to Samuel Osgood, mem- 
ber of the board of treasury (Life of Pickering, I. 520). Pickering's reply to I 
June 19, is ibid., p. 521. Osgood wrote to Pickering June 26: "I had not turned my 
Attention to the appointment of a new Treasurer because the present Treasurer had not 
to my knowledge proposed to resign. It may be inconvenient for Mr. Hillegas to remove 
to this Place, where the treasurer must be and ought to have been long ago : yet it is 
supposed by Some that he will submit to this Inconvenience rather than relinquish the 
Emoluments of his Office: But should a new Choice take Place, it would give me the 



June, 1785 147 

158. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Edenton 18th June, 1785. 
Sir, 

On the 1 5th inst. I arrived here from New York having come by water 
from Philada. Mr. Speight expected to set out from New York on the 
6th or 8th of this month. He comes by Land and Prudence will require 
that he should travel slow. Had an assembly been formed at Newbern I 
proposed to have attended, for as Mr. Cock deputed by the western People 
had lately been with Congress I conceived that some explanation of cer- 
tain Votes and transactions might be desired. 2 

On looking over my accounts I find that Gov. Martin has issued Cer- 
tificates or Warrants in my favor for 1500 D'lrs in part for Salary for 
the last year's Service. I am to charge 8 months and Yz service nearly, viz : 
For attendance in Congress from 1st Nov. to 14th May, and for 2 months 
allowed for going and coming, — 8 months and 13 days. Hence there is 
a balance due of 186 D'lrs 2 /z of a D'lr. For which balance I hope your 
Excellency will be so good as to send me a draft by the Express who 
delivers this, that I may try to get the money in some part of the District. 

I have the Honor to be with the utmost Consideration, Sir, 

Your obedt. servt. 
Hu. Williamson. 



sincerest Pleasure, if the Appointment should fall upon you — your past faithful Services 
entitle you to much more than this Appointment" (Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, 
XVIII. 253). 

Michael Hillegas, treasurer of the United States, had preferred a memorial to Con- 
gress at the end of April, requesting that his office might be continued in Philadelphia, 
and the committee to whom the memorial was referred Apr. 28 (Journals, p. 318 n.) 
was "discharged from proceeding in that business" May 13 (ibid., p. 353). On May 
24 Hillegas wrote to the President of Congress that he was disappointed in finding that 
his office must be removed to New York, and in that event he must resign (Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 78, vol. XII., f. 395)- On May 30, replying to a letter from the board of treasury 
May 27, he stated that he had written to the board on the 25th by James Wilson, " every 
day expecting to sett off for New York " ; that Wilson had been delayed in his departure, 
but he hears that Wilson will " leave this tomorrow morning ". " I flatter myself ", 
Hillegas continued, " that you will be kjnd enough to excuse the plan I have taken, altho 
for the present it may not appear quite convenient to you" (ibid., p. 399). The board of 
treasury referred the matter to Congress and Congress in turn referred it to a committee, 
who reported June 20. The report, which was drawn by Rufus King, proposed that in 
view of the inconvenience to Mr. Hillegas in removing from Philadelphia he be permitted 
to resign. No action appears however to have been taken on the report, but on Aug. 5 a 
motion by Samuel Hardy brought the matter to a focus. See no. 187, post. 

[ 1 58] x " Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " His Excellency Richard Caswell Esqr. Govr. etc. Kinston 
By Negro George") ; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 473. 
2 See nos. 5, 127, 153, 156, ante, 168, 192, post. 



148 Continental Congress 

159. John Beatty to Samuel Dick. 1 

Windsor Hall 21st June, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

This morning when I left N. York I neglected to pay Mr. Giles, for 
my Leaden Tobacco Box; I think he informed me it was five Shillings, 
be it however that or more, I will thank you to send William to pay him 
and to make an apology for my remissness in this particular. I was in 
hopes last nights post would have brought me a line from you ; I take it 
you must have been Unusually devout on Sunday, or I should have been 
favoured with half an hour of your attention. In Congressional Hours 
indeed, I yield my Claim to that of the public; it is only your private, 
Unemployed moments, that I wish you to devote to the offices of Friend- 
ship. I am just now Engaged in my Hay. the Country is delightfully 
pleasant, but the Season rather Warm. Mrs. Beatty desires her Comp's to 
you, Mr. Ellery and Mr. Howell, to whom also please to present mine.* 

Yours with much Esteem 

J Beatty 

[P. S.] Be so good as to call upon Mr. Mercier, the Auditor for a 
letter and some inclosures to me. 

[ 1 59] x Original in the possession of Mr. Charles Mecum, of Salem, N. J.; photostat 
furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 

2 Beatty is not recorded as voting after May 31, although committee reports 
drawn by him were under consideration some time later. 

About the time of Beatty's arrival at home a matter was brought to his attention that 
had for some time been dragging in Congress. On Mar. 7 a memorial of Ellis and Hugg 
praying a rehearing in the case of the sloop Hannah was referred to a committee of 
which Beatty was a member. The committee had in fact been appointed Dec. 24, 1784, 
on a letter from Cyrus Griffin and John Lowell, judges of the Court of Appeals, and 
various memorials had been referred to it (Journals, Jan. 19, Feb. 22), and on Mar. 7 
the committee was renewed. A report which the committee appears first to have offered 
Mar. 28 was considered Apr. 4, is recorded in the Journals under that date, and a broad- 
side of the report was printed (see the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XXIX. 920). 
The report was again considered Apr. 13. when it appears to have been recommitted, 
and a new report was brought in on June 1. A broadside of that report also was printed 
(Journals, XXIX. 923). It was just at this time that Beatty returned home. On June 7 
Joseph Hugg wrote to Beatty at Princeton urgently requesting a copy of the resolution 
of Congress on the question of a rehearing. "As the Supreme Court of Pennsylva. comes 
on in a few days ", Hugg wrote, " Shall be undone if I have not the resolutions of Com: 
I am at a loss to conceive what reasons Congress can have to retard such a resolution 
coming forth in the fullest manner as all the Gentlemen of the law declare it a matter 
of right warranted by Authority, and if I may use the expression of some authors time 
immemorial". (The letter is in possession of Mr. Charles Mecum of Salem, N. J.; 
photostat kindly furnished by Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J.) It was nearly 
a month later (July 1) that Congress once more took the report into consideration. 
Rufus King then made a motion, seconded by Melancton Smith, to postpone consid e r 
in order to take up a further motion which he offered, " that the commission of the judges 
of the court of appeals he vacated and annulled", etc. The motion ml negatived, hut 
Congress ordered the report recommitted. Thereupon, on a motion by Melancton Smith, 
seconded by David Ramsav, it was resolved "that the Salaries of the judees of tin- Court 
of Appeals shall henceforth cease." See Dr. J. F. Jameson's paper on " The Predecessor 
of the Supreme Court ", in Essays on Constitutional History. 



June, 1785 149 

160. David Howell to the Deputy Governor of Rhode Island 

(Jabez Bowen). 1 

New York 24 June 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 5th inst. came duly to hand 

For what reason your letter to the President has not been answered, 
I cannot say, but hope you will do our worthy President the justice to 
believe it is no prejudice against our little State, which is toasted very 
frequently at his table. 2 

I have called on the Secretary for the motion formerly made by us 
on Mr. Green's business and we shall particularly charge ourselves with 
an attention to it. 3 

The requisition still hangs by the eye-lids. Various obstructions are 
thrown in its way. Some are for separating the provision for the Foreign 
debt and civil-list from the domestic debt. This we oppose tooth and nail. 
The enclosed printed motion made by the delegates of Virginia contains 
other obstructions. 4 .... 

Please deliver the enclosed letter to Mr. Jno. Brown, and urge him to 
accept the place of Commissioner for erecting the Federal buildings. 
There is no doubt but Genl. Dickinson will concur with him in fixing 
them on this side of the Delaware. This I am assured of by the delegates 
from New Jersey. Nothing will be done soon in the business; perhaps 
not this season. He may afterwards find reason enough to decline if his 
business will not permit him to continue to complete the buildings. I 
have not delivered his letter to Mr. Thompson. I believe it is lost. I 
therefore pray him to enclose another to me, directed to Mr. Thompson, 
accepting the appointment. His next letter shall faithfully be delivered 
whatever its contents may be. 5 ... . 

[i6o] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 69; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 529. 

2 The deputy governor's unanswered letter was probably that of Mar. 29, laid 
before Congress Apr. 6. 

3 The motion referred to by Howell was probably that of Jan. 24 respecting ox 
teams, on which a report was rendered Feb. 11 and a resolve adopted Feb. 16. On July 11 
the Rhode Island delegates, in accordance with instructions from the state, obtained a 
resolution directing the commissioner for settling the accounts of the United States with 
the state of Rhode Island to settle the accounts of Thomas Greene. On the following 
day, on a motion of King and Monroe, the resolution was repealed, and the Rhode Island 
motion referred to the board of treasury, who were instructed to revise the system for 
the settlement of departmental accounts. The board made its report Jan. 12, 1786. See 
no. 207, post. 

4 See no. 156, ante, and Monroe's motion June 22 ; cf. the Journals, June 30 
(p. 489 n.), July 6 (p. 515 n.), 18. 

5 See nos. 37, 53, 95, 101, ante. John Brown had been first nominated by Howell 
Jan. 17 as one of the commissioners to lay out the federal district and erect the buildings, 
and on Mar. 16 was elected in the place of Philip Schuyler. Thomson appears to have 
notified him of the appointment by letter the next day, and Brown replied May 19 
declining the appointment. Meanwhile the other commissioners, Robert Morris and 
Philemon Dickinson, had written to Congress May 2 that they had repaired to New 
York to make the necessary arrangements respecting the business and were disappointed 
in not meeting Brown there. They further requested that a committee be appointed to 
confer with them (Journals, May 3, p. 333 n.). On June 20 Secretary Thomson again 
wrote to Brown relative to the appointment (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 99), and Brown 



150 Continental Congress 

161. William Hindman to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Paca). 1 

New-York June 24th, 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

The inclosed Papers contain all the intelligence I can give You, as You 
will there see that Congress have at Length elected a Minister for the 
United Netherlands. 2 

The Requisition remains in the same State it was some Months past. 8 
Mr. Gardoqui the Spanish Plenipotentiary has not yet reach'd this City, 
but daily expected. I see little Prospect of Congress adjourning in the 
Course of this Year, being up to their Eyes in Business, and Mr. Gar- 
doqui's Arrival will I expect add considerably thereto. 4 

I have heretofore counted with the greatest Certainty upon Mr. Gus- 
tavus Scott's joining Us early in the next Month, but from a Letter I 
reed, from him the other Day I almost give him up, as He says He is 
in very bad health, owing to an unfortunate Mistake of a blind Doct'r 
giving him Salt-Petre instead of Salts, and unless the warm Weather 
gives him Relief He will be under the Necessity of going to the Virginia 

replied June 28, transmitting a copy of his letter of May 19 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, 
vol. XIV., f. 477). The letter was read in Congress July 5. It was probably Thomson's 
letter of June 20 that Howell enclosed to Deputy Governor Bowen. 

On June 6 a petition of the trustees and fellows of Rhode Island College (now Brown 
University), praying for compensation for damages done to the college buildings in con- 
sequence of their occupancy by American and French troops during the war, and also 
for an allowance for the use of the buildings, was laid before Congress and referred to 
a committee (King, McHenry, Monroe, Pettit, and Johnson). Steps toward presenting 
such a petition had been initiated in May, 1780, and renewed in September, 178a, bat 
if the petitions were presented no record of the fact appears in the Journals (see Staples, 
R. J. in Cont. Cong., p. 286; R. A. Guild, Early History of Brown I'nkvrsity, pp. 333, 
334). On Dec. 23, 1784. James Manning, president of the college, wrote to Howell: 
" What think you of an application to Congress for the rents and damages of the Col: 
Will it do this session? .... I beg you to feel round amongst the members, and form a 
judgment of the probability of success in case of an application. Should things appear 
promising. I will forward the papers, and indeed will come myself, Deo volcntc, in the 
spring, if you think it can be of any use " (ibid., p. 306). The corporation decided to send 
President Manning to Congress to press the petition (letter of Manning Mar. 4, ibid.. 
p. 398). On Mar. S£ he wrote to Howell : " I told you in my last that the Corporation had 
resolved to send me forward in the Spring to Congress, as you advised. But as you did not 
give much e n co urag ement of Success from the application, I beg leave to enquire what 
think of the Probability of our procuring a grant of some part of the western Territory 
instead of a grant of Mum v " (ibid., p. 400, dated Mar. 21 ; original in Brown Uni- 
versity Library. Manning Papers). On July 22 Manning wrote to Rev. John Rippon I 
carried in Mav last an application to Congress, by a memorial, etc.. for compensation for 
the rents and damages done the college by the troops during the war, but as yet got nothing 
done. The papers were read and a committee appointed while I was there, before whom 
we had a hearing, and their promise of a speedy report ; but I fear little is to be expected 
from that quarter" (Guild, op. cit., p. 415; see also ibid., pp. 404. 4°9)- The committee 
made a report Sept. 28. See no. 235, post. 

[161] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXXII. 133. 

2 See no. 153, ante. 

8 See nos. 132, 153. 156, ante. 

*Cf. nos. 137, 141. 14-2. M". ISS. 161, ante. 167. 160. i;.; post. Samuel 

Osgood wrote to Timothy Pickering June 26: "Mr. Gardoqui has arrived here bu: 
not yet been admitted to an Audience and probably will not be for Several Dayi ID come, 
the Room being unfinished which is to be graced with the dignified Display of Royalty 
etca." Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 253. 



June, 1785 151 

Springs for his Recovery. He mentions his having seen Mr. Chase a 
few Days before the Date of his Letter, who told him He would be up 
this Summer, but of this I despair as Colo. Hindman 5 who saw him 
later says He inform'd him He could not come up this Year. Our Friend 
Mr. Henry will leave this about the third of next Month, full charged and 
in high Condition for the Reception and Gratification of the accom- 
plished fair One which You promised to provide for him, and who He 
says He shall demand at your Hands, insisting for a Compliance of your 
Engagement. He desires his Love to You. On his Departure our State 
will be reduced to a bare Representation and my Colleague Mr. McHenry 
says He is afraid his Affairs will render it essential for him to be in 
Baltimore for a Month, should that happen We shall then be unrepresented 
which ought to be avoided. 

162. John Habersham to Joseph Clay. 1 

New-York, 24th June, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I embrace the present favorable opportunity to offer you my best 
thanks for the letters you were so obliging as to write in my favor, which 
have procured me very friendly tenders of service at Philadelphia and 
this place. 

From our being so long unrepresented, and the indifference shewn to 
Foederal requisitions, I was led to suppose we should frequently be re- 
minded of the delinquency of Georgia; but whether it is because the 
States have all been in some degree culpable, or that our distresses and 
consequent inability are considered, the subject has seldom been touched 
upon. 2 A commissioner was appointed before our arrival for the purpose 
of setling the demands of our State against the United States, and will 
go from hence about the first of November next. Was he to go sooner 
it would answer no good purpose, Mr. Wereat being at Augusta and as 
I understood him not quite prepared for an adjustment of the business. 3 

You will observe by some of the inclosed News papers that Town 
Meetings have been held in different parts of these Northern States to 
consider the present distressful situation of American Commerce ; the 
result has been that they have agreed to recommend to their respective 
Legislatures the investing Congress with full pozver to regulate Trade. 
This is a nice subject to come before Congress, and ample, indefinite, 

5 Presumably Lieut.-Col. James Hindman, at this time commissioner of public 
accounts for North Carolina. 

[162] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Soldiers, II. 

2 Cf. nos. 93, 109, 156, ante. 

3 The board of treasury (Samuel Osgood and Walter Livingston) wrote to the 
governor of Georgia May 5 that, on the recommendation of William Houstoun, they had 
nominated Job Sumner as commissioner of public accounts for the state of Georgia, and 
requesting to be notified if the appointment was approved (Georgia Archives, Foreign 
Affairs, 1785). On June 21 the board again wrote the governor, referring to their 
letter of May 5, and stating that Sumner would be in Georgia in October. They again 
ask to be notified whether the appointment is approved, that the business may be ex- 
pedited (ibid.). In the treasury statement of June 7 (Journals, June 9) Sumner is listed 
as commissioner for Georgia. 



152 Continental Congress 

powers will hardly go down. Nevertheless something that would enable 
Congress to counteract the oppressive Systems of foreign Nations, is 
undoubtedly necessary, as without it they will never be brought to act 
on equal terms with us. 4 .... 



163. William Houstoun to the Governor of Georgia 
(Samuel Elbert). 1 

New York 26th June 1785. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the 5th May I have had the honor to receive and no 
opp'y having offered since that time and for some time before for Savan- 
nah, makes it now necessary to send a number of despatches together. As 
they are all large, together with the Journals, and newspapers I have 
delivered Mr. Gibbons the bearer of this letter for you, they will give 
you every publick Information, the Delegates therefore at Present have 
no occasion for making any observations in their official capacity, but have 
requested as I should answer your private Letter to assure your Honor 
of their being sensible, that every Means in your Power will be used to 
keep them supplied. As the necessity of the Delegation of the State being 
kept up is apparent from the advantages already attained in Congress, 
they have been disapp'd in not receiving the one hundred and fifty Pounds 
from owens and Thomson. 

The Delegation will write by Doctor Vicars 2 who goes in a few days, 
As Mr. Gibbons is now just going off in haste and can give you any acct. 
of matters here. I hope I shall experience in future the advantages of 
a salary more forcibly than I have hitherto done. 

[P. S.] I wish it was in the power of the State to pay me my ar 
of salary. 8 

4 See no. 117, note 4, ante. 
[i63] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., Federal Convention. 

2 Probably Dr. Samuel Vickers, physician and surgeon in the hospital of the 
Southern department. 

8 The Georgia delegates in Congress were not alone in their difficulties in 
obtaining money from their state. At the moment when Houstoun was writing the 
commissioners appointed to negotiate treaties with the southern Indians were in Savannah 
trying to raise sufficient funds to proceed upon their business. A letter of this purport 
from Benjamin Hawkins to Gen. Lachlan Mcintosh, dated at Savannah Jum 
Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., V. 82. On June 19 the commissioners (Hawkins. Pickcnt, 
and Martin) had written to Governor Caswell that, in accordance with the authori/ 
of Congress, they had applied to the Georgia authorities for money, but " from some 
particular imperfection in their laws, or rather the unexpectedness of the application ", 
they had obtained only two hundred pounds (N. C. State Rccs., XVII. 473). Govcrm r 
Caswell at once made arrangements to furnish the commissioners one-third of the thirteen 
thousand dollars which the commissioners were authorized to draw from the four southern 
states. See ibid., pp. 487, 489, 493. 



June, 1785 153 

164. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 

New York June 27th 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the Hon'r to acquaint yr. Excell'y that a young Gentleman 
whose name is Dowse, a native of Charlestown Massachusetts is now in 
this City, he has lately been in the western country — and is recommended 
for his integrity and ability by gentlemen on whose Judgment we fully 
rely. He is desirous of serving as the surveyor for New Hampshire and 
should he be appointed will proceed immediately on the business of his 
office. If no measures have been taken by the General Court to supply 
the place of Mr. Adams we wish to know your Excell'ys opinion as to 
nomination of this Gentleman. 2 

165. Rufus King to Henry Knox. 1 

New York 27th June 1785. 
My dear sir, 

.... We go on here, much in the Stile pursued when you was with 
us. I wish your return, but have heard nothing more than affectionate 
wishes on the same subject from any quarter. I think you may free 
yourself from any apprehensions that your absence will be misconstrued 
by Congress, you may be assured that assembly contains a number of 
worthy men, who are your very sincere friends. 

I write to Colo. Tupper 2 by this post on the idea suggested in your 
first letter, and also in a letter from Mr. Putnam. I can see no difficulty 
in Col. Tupper's discharging the Duty of surveyor for a given period, 
after which Putnam may come on. 

[P. S.] I have directed a letter to Tupper at Boston, pray if he is not 
there, take up the letter and forward it. RK 

166. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York June 27, 1785. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to transmit to your Excellency the copy 
of an ordinance for surveying and disposing of the lands northwestward 
of the Ohio, with the acts of Congress regulating the government of the 

[164] 1 N. H. Arch., Revolution, X. 119 (signed by Foster and Long) ; Library of Con- 
gress, Force Trans., New Hampshire Records, Council Correspondence, 1782-1788. 
2 See nos. 133, 141, ante, and no. 180, post. 
[165] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVIII. 52. 

2 Benjamin Tupper was appointed, July 18, surveyor for Massachusetts in place 
of Rufus Putnam until the latter should be able to assume the duties of the position. See 
no. 133, ante. Putnam's letter, dated June II, was laid before Congress June 20. 

[i66] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (in Monroe's writing and signed by Hardy, 
Monroe, Lee, and Grayson). 



154 Continental Congress 

new States previous to, and the conditions upon which they shall be ad- 
mitted, into the confederacy. 2 The resolution of the 18th of March last 
directing a treaty to be held at post St. Vincents for making peace and 
obtaining an additional cession from the Indians, being found insufficient 
in the means necessary to carry it into effect, upon resuming the con- 
sideration of it, it was found expedient to appropriate additional sums 
of money for the purpose and to extend the powers of the Commiss'rs 
as well in the objects of the treaty as to the other important duties which 
have devolv'd on the Union respecting that territory. The acts of Con- 
gress upon these subjects we herewith transmit to your Excellency. 8 

It is with concern we find the motives which indue'd us to request from 
Congress an additional Commiss'r to settle the accounts of the State 
against the U S. hath not been sufficiently understood, arising we suppose 
from our not having sufficiently explain'd them to you. The duty of 
these commiss'rs by the resolutions of the 20th of Feby. 1782, is to 
settle the claims of States, and individuals within each, against the U S. 
up to the 31 of Deer. 1782 upon principles which had been previously 
agreed to. Under these resolutions he is only to give publick notice of 
the time and place at which he will proceed in discharge of these duties, 
but by those of the 3d of June 1784, he is instructed to remain stationary 
or move from county to county as the Legislature or Executive of each 
State may advise. He is also at liberty to appoint what number of clerks 
he may find necessary to assist him. all the duties and rights which be- 
long'd to one are extended to both. In several states they move, we have 
been inform'd, from place to place for the convenience of the people; how 
far this may be necessary in ours we submit to your Excellency and the 
Council to determine, dispatch in the settlement of these accounts was 
our only object ; we presum'd the Executive might direct one to settle with 
the State, and the other with individuals, or if the former are already 
settled, that particular counties might be assign'd to each for the settle- 
ment of the accts. of individuals within them. Certificates given by 
Quarter Masters or Commissaries or other officers who had a right to 
give them for supplies or services render'd to the U. States, will of course 
be taken up by the Commiss'r as his vouchers, so that no danger can 
arise from the number of Commiss'rs employ'd in the business. In ad- 
dition to this he may take the oath of the party that he lives in the county 
or district assign'd to him or require such other evidence of it as may 
be satisfactory. Every delay your Excellency will readily perceive must 
be injurious to our State, we are not only depriv'd of the advantage of 
certificates of discount upon the interest of these debts admitted in the 
requisition, but our citizens of the payment of the interest due them, one 
of the principal objects of it, while the money drawn from ours is applied 
to the discharge of such debts in other States. While the Commiss'r hath 
an annual salary depending upon the time he may procrastinate it to, 

* The ordinances of May 20, 1785, and Apr. 23, 1784, respectively. 

8 See nos. 124, 143, 153. 156, ante, 173, 175, post. The additional a. :hose 

of June 6 and 15. Further resolves, moved by Rufus King June 23, were adopted June 29. 
See Governor Henry to the delegates Aug. 12, in Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 314. 



June, 1785 155 

it may be expected he will be averse to measures which may hurry the 
conclusion, but as they are respectively subject to the observance of the 
several Executives it is to be hop'd their views in this instance, if such 
exist, will be defeated. 4 

167. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York June 27th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have recieved your favor of the 29 May acknowledging the receipt 
of my first letter, though making no mention of the last, which I presume 
has not yet come to hand; 2 since the date thereof the affair of the treaty 
with the Western Indians which was decided on the 18th March last, has 
been opened again and very much canvassed; the result however is that 
the treaty is to be held ; and for the double purpose of procuring peace 
and for extinguishing the rights of the Indians to the territory lying 
between the Great Miami and the Mississippi. 3 

Accounts from Colo. Harmer Command't at fort Mcintosh, mention 
that the emigration to the Country already purchased from the Indians 
is very considerable ; that at the mouth of the Scioto there are about 
500 Settlers, and at the mouth of the Miami and other parts about 1500. 
That he has agreable to orders dispossess'd all those who were convenient 
to him ; Congress have directed him to move his garrisson to such a point 
as shall be most convenient for removing all the intruders. Should his 
force be inadequate to the business, it is expected the troops which go 
down with the Comm'e will be sufficient to make a general sweep. 4 

The requisition for the current year is still before Congress, and there 
are considerable disagreements respecting it; it is very certain public 
credit ought to be supported by every nation who wishes to exist ; but it 
is also as certain that requisitions will not support credit unless there are 
payments consequential thereon. 5 

The requisition for 1784 has been illy complied with; Some of the 
States have not done any thing and the remittances of most of them to 
the Continental treasury (except Virginia) has been inconsiderable. 

It is therefore no mystery why those who pay least should be most 
anxious for new requisitions. The delegation of our State are desirous 
of a requisition on terms not ruinous, and despairing for the present to 
accomplish an exaction of past delinquencies wish only to have it so 
modified as that the Interest on such portions of the £750,000 (as are 
Continental) which our Assembly has liquidated shall be considered 
among the facilities as fast as they are audited and past by the Continental 
Comm'rs. They also wish the expenditures of Clark or certain parts 

* See nos. 92, 118, 123, ante; cf. no. 172, past. The salary of the commissioner was 
fixed by a resolution June 9. Cf. the motions June 7. 
[167] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 Grayson's two letters to Madison are nos. 118 and 140, ante. 

3 See the Journals, June 6, 15; cf. nos. 153, 156, 166, ante. 

4 See the Journals, June I, 21, 24. 

6 Cf. nos. 132, 153, 156, 160, ante, 173, 175, 203, post. 

17 



156 Continental Congress 

thereof annually may be admitted in the hard money portion of Virginia 
as paym't pro tanto. 

Congress after several unsuccessful efforts have at length elected 
Governor Livingston for the Hague. 8 

Mr. Gardoqui, charge des affaires Plenipotentiary from the Court of 
Spain is at length arrived at this place ; but I believe very few have seen 
him. I understand he has been bred to the business of a Merch't and is an 
agreable man ; he has resided some short time in Philada. and the people 
from thence represent him in a favorable light. 7 

The Comm'rs appointed to make commercial treaties, have made no 
great progress therein ; which is rather agreable to Congress than other- 
wise, as they begin to dislike the idea of granting the right of the most 
favored nation to powers whose commerce is of so little importance as 
not to promise any essential advantage to the U. S. 8 The Pope without a 
treaty has opened Civita Vecchia, and Ancona for the commerce of 
America. In the same manner Leghorn and Messina are made free for 
us by the respective sovereigns. The treaties with the Barbary States 
are in train, and I hope will be completed in the course of the summer, 
though the expence will be considerable. 9 The birth of the Duke of Nor 
mandy has been announced in due form. There is no certain intelligence 
respecting the Emperor and the Dutch. 



168. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Edenton 27th June 1785. 
Sir, 

Yours of 23rd inst: came to Hand. When I wrote on the iSth* I 
was in haste as the Express was just setting out and there was indeed 
the appearance though it was only in appearance of some Neglect on my 
side in making the proper Communications. My Trunk containing my 
Cloaths, the Journals of Congress and all my public Papers had 1 
ship'd at New York for this Place on the 26th of May and the V< 
did not arrive in this Bay till on this Morning. My Baggage is not yet 
landed. I have there a Copy of some of the Papers, not all of them, For 
as Mr. Spaight continued in Congress after my Time was out and the 
chief Debates respecting the Western Country took Place alter the 14th 
of May it was Mr. Spaights Duty not mine to communicate the same 
to the Executive. I mentioned the subject to him and understood from 
him that he had ordered a Copy of the whole to be made out. I presume 

6 Sec nos. 169, 170, post. 

' See no. 161, note 4, antt. 

*Cf. nos. 153. 156, ante, 175, 203, post. 

9 See the Journals, June 16 (p. 463 n.). The letter from the commission 
18, is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1780, I. 562. The enclosures (except numbers 4 and 8) 
are ibid., pp. 553*562. Cf. nos. 179, 182, 183, post. 

[I681 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C, V. 74; N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's 
Papers (copy of part) ; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 477 (part). 

2 No. 158, ante. 



June, 1785 157 

he brings it with him or has sent it by Post. I thought that my interfering- 
after my service was legally ended might seem to imply a want of Con- 
fidence in his diligence. In fact there has no act pass'd in Congress but 
a single Recommendation to the State to renew the Cession ; but there was 
much Debate, and many Yeas and Nays were call'd; the Questions lost. 
On the last day of my sitting in Congress, which was two days before 
the arrival of Cock in New York it was moved by a Member from 
Massachusetts and seconded I believe by one from N. Jersey that Con- 
gress should accept the Cession of Western Territory made by N. Caro- 
lina; Whatever my sentiments might have been respecting the Policy of 
the Cession or the Repeal you may presume that when the Honor or 
even the competence of the State to make good and proper Laws was 
squinted at I was not silent. The Motion was after considerable Debate 
withdrawn. That was on Friday. On the Monday or Tuesday following 
the very same Motion was made and was, as you will see by the Journal, 
very nearly carryed. Cock was then in Town, but I think his Presence 
produced no Effect pro nor con. I question whether Mr. Spaights 
Health permitted him to attend during the whole of this debate. I am 
fully informed that the Question was lost by the negative of some Gentle- 
men who wished very much for the Cession but who were very unwilling 
to give offence to a state that is admitted on all Occasions to be observant 
of federal Measures. 3 

169. John Beatty to Samuel Dick. 1 

Windsor Hall 28th June 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I shall not doubt your Conversion after the Evident Symptoms of 
Conviction, expressed in your last letter; nor shall I charge you with 
informality in your Epistulary productions, as I esteem your Method of 
Communication, infinitely beyond the old, stale Manner of acknowledg- 
ing and answering letters. I admire the furniture of your upper chamber, 
as well for its originality as simplicity and usefulness and have only to 
wish you may partake more liberally of that store of good things which 
it contains. 

Will Govr. Levingston accept the appointment to the Hague. I really 
feel distressed at the Idea of loosing him, when I am persuaded he is so 
essential to the Peace and Welfare of this State : I pray he may not go. 
Whatever may be his determination, I beg you to give me the earliest 
Notice of it. 2 I like not, either Alden, nor Martins Appointments. 3 The 

3 Cf. no. 146, ante. Williamson's statement that the motion respecting the North 
Carolina cession was first made on May 13 is not elsewhere of record. As Williamson's 
last day of attendance was May 13, his motion placed in the Journals conjecturally under 
May 19 belongs at some earlier day. 

[ 1 69] x Original in the possession of Mr. Charles Mecum, of Salem, N. J.; photostat 
furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 

2 William Livingston was chosen as minister to the Hague June 23 but his letter 
of declination (June 25) had already been received by Congress (Journals, June 27). John 
Rutledge was then elected (July 5), but he also declined. See nos. 101, 112, 124, 167, ante, 
170, post. 

3 Roger Alden was elected deputy secretary of Congress June 23, and his ac- 
ceptance (July 4, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. I., f. 465) was received July ir. 



158 Continental Congress 

former I think ought to have been given to Bankson and the latter to 
Holmes — however I call not in question the propriety of this choice; as 
I have no Knowledge of the Circumstances, which may have directed 
your Judgement. 

I am sorry to find the requisition still loiters in the House — it will in 
a little time be equally as applicable for 86 as 85, as near half the Year has 
already elapsed. 

Mr. Houston tells me, the Ghost of old Continental Money again 
stalks in Congress — this is a Subject in which X. Jersey is considerably 
interested. I could wish it was setled upon some Just and amicable 
principles; as I fear Violent Commotions may Ensue; threatning to the 
Union. I was surprised to find Stewart remaining in X. York so long 
after Houstons Arrival, he Expressed much impatience before I left 
the City, but he is so Excentric, that I believe he has no centre — certainly 
he never moves in one. My Comp's to Mr. Houston. 4 I will answer his 
two favours by the next post, I am at present a good deal engaged 

P. S. Shall I thank you to have the inclosed delivered and to Inform 
Mr. Mercier you will forward his answer, do give me now and then a 
New York paper, and tell me if Don Gardoqui is arrived and what features 
his public character wears. 

170. Charles Pettit to Xathanael Greene. 1 

New York 30th June 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I have been in this Town 4 or 5 Weeks, studying Forms in the 
temporary School established by the U. States. As yet I am but a Novice, 
and like most Boys on first going to School, see so many Difficulties 
before me, that I wish myself at home again. We triflfle away much 
Time, but luckily the Doors are not open to expose many of our Follies; 
I wish our Journals would testify more Wisdom and System in our 
Decisions than I can perceive in them. We have long been choosing a 
Minister for the Hague. The Choice of 7 States fell on Govr. 1 Jvingston : 
he has declined. The Friends of Govr. Rutledge are offended, but he is 
again in Nomination without their apparent Approbation. Chancellor 
Livingston is also named.' On a former occasion he refused to be run 
for this Place, tho' he wanted to be appointed, as I am told, for London. 8 
A third Com'r of the Treasury is wanted to add to Mr. Osgood and 
Mr. Walter Livingston — it is said it must be a Southern Gentn. Mr. 
Gervais was appointed and refused, Mr. Eveleigh has been named and 
withdrawn, Mr. Cuthbert (Treasurer of Georgia) is named but not 
much known, he and Mr. A I^ee, in various Attempts, have each had from 

Absalom Martin was elected surveyor for New Jersey June 17. His petition for the 
appointment was laid before Congress June I. According to the Journals he was nominated 
by the New Jersey delegates, Dick and Stewart. 

4 See no. 176, post. 
[ 1 70] l William L. Clements Library, Greene Papers. 

2 See nos. 167, 169, ante. 

8 Cf. nos. 28, 41, 44, 65. 70. ante. 



July, 1785 159 

4 to 6 Votes but get no higher. 4 Can you help us to a Name from the 
Southward that is suitable. I am told I have been in nomination some- 
time ago, but I have been in the Q M. Departm't and besides I do not 
reside for enough South, the Northern and Middle Regions having each 
one already. If I had been chosen I believe I should have accepted if 
from no other Motive than to get clear of the Politicks of Penns'a. I 
have been lugged in there against my wish, and I know not how to get 
out with honor but in some such way as this. I fear the Event of the 
next Election. What would be flattering to some Minds, I shudder at 
the Apprehension of — recent Examples enhance the Danger in my View. 
And yet I feel a Desire for the Success of a particular Interest in that 
State, from various Motives, but I would rather see their Measures 
conducted by an abler Pilot than my fears admit will be found. 

I set out in Haste to give you but a few Lines on Business, but I have 
exceeded my own Views, in the Length to which I have run. 

171. James McHenry to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer (P). 1 

Philadelphia 4 July 1785. 
D'r Sir, 

I have been on a visit to this place for a few days. Mr. J. Henry is to 
leave New-York to-morrow whither I return with a great deal of reluc- 
tance and much inconvenience to my private affairs. It is absolutely 
necessary however that our State should be represented — the requisition 
for 75 2 having not yet passed, the old-paper-money being still before 
Congress, besides many other important questions in which we are pecu- 
liarly interested. But altho' I return immediately to New- York I do not 
conceive that it will be in my power to continue beyond the latter end of 
August. I have drawn upon you accordingly for two months which I 
presume will be the last. In the mean while I hope it will suit some other 
gentleman to come forward. 

By the requisition for 74 ['84] the States are permitted so to model 
the collection of taxes and their payments into the foederal treasury, that 
three fourths of any sum being paid in actual money the other fourth 
may be discharged by the interest arising upon liquidated debts due by 
the United States to any of their citizens. Any State therefore being in 
possession of certificates of liquidated debts due to her citizens may pay 
the interest thereon in part of that requisition agreeably to the proportion 
thereby established. Our State I suppose has the original loan office cer- 
tificates which she received from her citizens who adopted her for their 
debtor, the interest upon which she may use as far as the same will apply 
in the discharge of the requisition of 74 ['84]. or any future requisitions 
on the same principle. In addition to these loan office certificates I have 
been thinking whether it might not be so contrived as to obtain from the 
pay-master or person authorised to settle with our late line, certificates 

* Arthur Lee was elected July 27. See nos. 57, 61, 66, 68, 101, ante, 191, 196, post. 
[171] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1025. 

2 He means 1785. Similarly, in the next paragraph, he uses "74" for 1784. 



160 Continental Congress 

to the amount of the partial advance made by the State, without the 
consent of Congress, either in the names of the officers and soldiers them 
selves or in your name as their representative. Nothing can be more 
reasonable and just than that the State should be put in the situation 
which her troops would be in had she made them no advance. They would 
get a certificate intitled to and bearing an interest to be paid annually 
by the United States. Any individual who had purchased their right to 
five months pay would have got a certificate. The State purchased such 
right and ought to have such certificate as they themselves would have 
obtained. Should the State only get a credit for her advance to her line. 
it would be getting nothing. A State credit intitles a State to no interest 
until a final adjustment and partition of the public debt; and then only, 
if it appears that she advanced beyond her proportion, in which case 
she will be intitled to an interest upon what she has exceeded that pro- 
portion. Now as the day of partitioning the advances of the several 
States, as some have conjectured, may be as remote as the day of judge- 
ment, such a credit is not likely to be of much service to our State. Per- 
haps you will have it in your power to carry this operation to many other 
advances made by our citizens to the United States, which our State has 
either assumed the payment of or has actually paid, and which is not 
yet adjusted by the foederal commissioner who has power to settle such 
accounts. 

But I have another object in view besides obtaining certificates for 
the use and benefit of the State. Impressments were made within our 
State for the support of the army employed in the siege of York, and 
I believe at the pressing instance of General Washington. I wish to be 
provided with authentic copies of his letters on this occasion, for I think 
it behoves us to endeavour to get a credit for what was then furnished 
out of the next requisition. The supplies drawn from the Eastward for 
that siege were paid by contract; and there can be no doubt but that 
what we furnished would have been also on contract, had not the army 
required a more instant mode for its support. You will therefore be 
good enough to hasten forward with as much expedition as possible a 
copy of the documents and act upon which the impress was founded. It 
would be a great relief to the State could we obtain a credit in the next 
requisition for what we then furnished. At all events it is our duty to 
try to obtain it. 

If there was a reasonable hope that a final adjustment and apportion- 
ment would take place in a reasonable time these matters would be of 
consequence — but under present appearances you will perceive whether 
the States be called upon for specie to pay the whole of the interest OB 
the domestic debt, or whether they be permitted annually to pay a part 
thereof by discounts in the mode proposed by the last years requisition 
that in either case it is equally important and to the interest of our State 
to get certificates in as many instances as possible instead of a State credit 
which cannot be a present convenience to the State, and which eventually 
may prove of no service. 8 

» Cf. nos. 132, 156, 167, ante, 172, 173, post. 



July, 1785 161 

Present my cordial regards to Mr. Stone — Advise with him on these 
matters for he understands them better than I do and believe me to be 
D'r Sir yours very sincerely 

James McHenry. 

[P. S.] I must ask your forgiveness for this letter as I have not time 
to make a fair copy. 

172. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Matthew Griswold). 1 

New York July 9th 1785. 
S'r, 

Coll. Cook having found it necessary to return home for a few Days, 
it is incumbant upon me singly to acknowledge the receipt of yr. Excell'ys 
several favours of the 16th, 21st and 27th of June with their inclosures. 

Genl. Parsons having before we reed, his Nomination to the Surveyor- 
ship been appointed to another Office by Congress we tho't it expedient 
to suspend the Nomination till he sho'd have determined with respect to 
the other Appointment, which I hope we shall soon be informed of. Mean 
time having Noted the Circumstances of the affair to the Geographer, 
such arrangements will take place as to prevent any Inconvenience from 
the delay. 2 The Attention of the Gen'al Assembly to make provision for 
our support here and yr. Excell'ys Instruct's to expedite the Collection 
of the Money are very obliging and lay us under the strongest Engage- 
ments to endeavour strenuously that our Attendance here may be of some 
Use to the public. The solicitude the Genl. Assembly have expressed for 
the speedy settlement of the Accounts of the State of Connecticut with 
the United States is extremely laudable. It is an object of the highest 
Importance, and the want of such a settlement among all the States in 
the Union gives extreme Embarrass't and Delay to all Federal Measures 
Every State contend'g that they are in advance. Strongly impressed by 
the experience of these Inconveniencies, Congress have for some time 
past turned their Attention to this subject and have very lately refer'd 
it to the Board of Treasury to consider of and Report Measures and 
Arrangements to facilitate and expedite the settlement of those Accounts, 
and with greatest dispatch to effect a complete adjustment of all the 
Accounts of the Union. What that Report will be, or what Measures 
may finally be adopted it is impossible to foresee. But I conjecture it 
may probably terminate in the Appointment of new Commissioners where 
it shall be found necessary whose attention shall be confined solely to 
the State accounts with the Union, and to oblige the several States to 
Exhibit their accounts within a limited time under some Penalty, perhaps 
the loss of the Interest upon every account which shall not be Exhibited 

[172] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 107(2), (draft). 

2 See no. 133, ante. On June 9 Samuel Holden Parsons was chosen as an addi- 
tional commissioner to settle the accounts of Virginia with the United States. His accep- 
tance, July 13, was laid before Congress July 18. On the same day Isaac Sherman was 
elected surveyor for Connecticut. The geographer was Thomas Hutchins. 



162 Continental Congress 

to the Comm'r by the time specified. 8 These measures anticipate in some 
degree the Views of the Genl. Assembly of Connecticut and will I hope 
produce effects eventually correspondent to their Wishes. In the mean 
time they have the less reason to be deeply anxious about their particular 
Accounts as few States, I believe are so forward as Connecticut, some 
have hardly as yet entered upon the business and of those States who 
have begun, very few I fancy have made so much progress as Connecticut 
and till all are compleated no final Adjustment you are sensible can be 
effected. 

Notwithstanding the Measures already adopted I have laid your 1 
cell'ys Letter upon this Subject and the Remarks received some time 
since from the Comm'ee of Pay Table, before the Board of Treasury 
and shall with the Assistance of my worthy Colleague pursue every 
measure requisite as well to obtain an early Report from the Board 
to expedite the eventual Measures to be taken by Congress thereupon. 

The Requisition still labours under multiplied Obstructions which no 
Efforts hitherto exerted, tho' they have been extremely vigorous, have 
yet been able to remove. 4 Congress have lately spent some time upon 
the subject of Commerce, as well as that of a Mint, but have yet come 
to no final conclusions upon either. These subjects will probably be re- 
sumed again next week. 5 The affair of Wyoming is postponed to the 
15th of Septr. 6 Other matters of Consequence are as usual in Train. 

You have seen by the Papers that Mr. Gardoqui has been received as 
the Minister of Spain. He applied yesterday to know when and with 
whom he sho'd enter upon the objects of his Mission. This shews a good 
disposition to the despatch of Business to which he will receive a speedy 
answer, and the Negotiations may be soon open'd but I will not engage 

8 Cf. nos. 132, 156, 166, 171, ante. On July 7, upon a motion by Howell, seconded 
by King, the board of treasury was instructed to report upon the most practicable measures 
for expediting the settlement of accounts between the states and the United States, and 
on the following day a motion by Ellery for fixing a time for the states to bring in their 
accounts against the United States was likewise referred to the board of treasury 
(.Journals, p. 520 n.). The board made its report July 14, and July 20 was assigned for 
its consideration. At a time not definitely recorded, but probably Aug. I, it was referred 
to a grand committee (Journals, p. 539 n.), for, the subject of requisitions being then 
under discussion, certain motions (July 28 and 29; see also the motions July 26) re sp ect in g 
these accounts were on Aug. 1 referred to a grand committee. Cf. the Journals, Ann. 3. 
The grand committee made a report on Aug. 5 and a revised report Sept. 13. Meanwhile, 
on July 27, the board of treasury (its report is dated July 25) laid before Congress 
letters from the commissioners of accounts for Virginia and South Carolina, and this 
matter was, on Aug. 9, referred to " the grand committee of Aug. 1 ". In the a 
ing requisitions, adopted Sept. 27, the principal questions at issue pertaining to the settle- 
ment of state accounts were adjusted, but on the following day a grand committee was 
appointed to report an ordinance for expediting the settlement of public account- 
ordinance appears to have been offered as a result of this assignment, but the question was 
stirred from time to time (see, for instance Monroe's motion Dec. 30), and just a year 
later the subject was revived. Sec nos. 191, 207, 236, 255, 312, 317, 321, 364, post. 

* Cf. no. 167, ante. 

8 A committee report drawn by Hugh Williamson with the title " Propositions 
respecting the coinage of gold, silver, and copper ", is in the Journals, May 13. On July 6 
Congress adopted the dollar as the money unit. See no. 151, note 4, ante, and nos. iKj, 203, 
217, post. 

9 See nos. 45, no, 133, ante, and no. 279, post; also the Journals, Aug. 19, Sept. 

15. 19, «• 



July, 1785 163 

they will be very soon closed. We have much to say to him as well as 
he to us. 7 

I am extremely sorry to find yr. Excell'ys Health has been so much 
affected by the fatigues of Business. I pray God to give you perfect 
recovery, as well as the firmest Vigor to continue yr. attentions to public 
affairs. 



173. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York July 12. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I inclose a copy of the journals so far as they are printed, they contain 
nothing you will find respecting the requisition nor the commercial in- 
terests of the union, the former upon the report of a committee hath 
been frequently before Congress of late and as often recommitted, in 
which state it now lies, as the principal part of the debt which in other 
States forms a part of the present estimate, for the payment of whose 
interest the requisition is in that degree made, contracted by Qr. Masters 
commissioners etc. with individuals in the liquidation whereof the com- 
miss'rs of the U S. with those of each State are now engag'd, was con- 
tracted in ours by State impressments and of course consider'd and 
provided for as a State debt, we thought it our duty to propose " that 
in all cases wherein claims of individuals by payment of the principal or 
other satisfactory compensation have been transfer'd to the States of 
which they are citizens, the sd. States shall be consider'd as Standing in 
the place of the individuals and entitled to all the benefits which wo'd 
otherwise have belong'd to them." Two thirds of the amt. requir'd will 
be necessary to discharge the interest upon the domestic debt, and this 
may be so modified in the collection as to admit certificates of interest in 
discount upon the liquidated debt: our object therefore was to extend 
this facility to the State to obtain for her a discount of so much as she 
paid to her citizens of those debts due them by the U States, and thereby 
prevent the payment of double her proportion, for the discharge of 
similar debts within other states, while she was exhausted by making it 
to her own citizens. To complete the facility to the States whose accts. 
were unliquidated we also propos'd, " that for that reason and as each 
State suppos'd she had advance! her foederal quota and requisitions upon 
a contrary principle, untill they sho'd be liquidated, might be injurious 
to those with whom it sho'd be the case, so far as they applied to the 
domestic debt, that the requisitions might be so modified in their col- 
lection as that the States might pay in their quotas in either the principal 
or interest of such accts. as sho'd be liquidated ". we presum'd the U 

7 This paragraph was written as a postscript but marked to be inserted at this 
point. Gardoqui had his audience July 2. See also the Journals, July 6 (p. 515 n.), 
12, 20; also no. 179, post. The exchanges of letters May 21 to July 8, together with the 
ceremonial of Gardoqui's reception, are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 2783-1789, III. 142-152. 
Cf. nos. 153 (note 9), 161, 167, ante, 173, 179, post. 

[ 1 73] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 90. 



164 Continental Congress 

States wo'd be benefited by a state availing itself of this facility, as it 
must always be the interest of the debtor to diminish the principal in 
preference to the interests of a Debt where the engagement is not to pay 
interest upon interest, lastly we propos'd " that dol'rs sho'd be de- 
ducted out of the requisition in payment of that amt. of the advances of 
the State for the expedition to the Kaskaskias etc ". Those propositions 
were not reed, in the most favorable manner, as to the first they said 
" that the assumption on the part of the State and payment to its own 
citizens of the debts due by the U S. were voluntary acts, that such 
advances therefore must be consider 'd as State-advances and to be taken 
into consideration upon the final liquidation of State accts. when the 
advances of all the States and their respective quotas were ascertain'd and 
apportion'd. That these advances also were in discharge of specific requi- 
sitions to which the State had given its assent in a motion by her delegates 
when the detachment of Wayne was marching southw'ds. we answer'd 
that the failure in specific requisitions (and we would grant we had 
absolutely fail'd which however was not the case) was like failures in 
all other requisitions, that if we paid less in that than other States we 
had exceeded in equal degree in other instances, that these payments or 
failures under requisitions stood on the same ground and were to be 
settled on the same principles, that the resolution respecting Wayne was 
confin'd only to the troops under his command and untill he sho'd reach 
the Marquis of Fayatte, or if extended to all the regular troops then in 
the State or during the campaign it had no connection with the militia 
and State impressments for militia and regular troops; or if extended to 
the whole in either instance and untill the payment of the whole requi- 
sition, for the extra-advance there sho'd be some consideration. In oppo- 
sition to the 2d proposition it was urg'd " that here is the estimate of 
the publick debt for the payment of whose interest a requisition is to be 
made; how can the interest be paid upon the estimate when the money 
necessary for it is to be applied to the discharge of the principal in some 
of the States." Upon the 3d proposition we had previously taken the 
sense of Congress but we thought proper to bring it again to their view 
that we might know what they intended doing in it. They were all three 
committed after several days debate and the opinion of the committee 
being ag'nst them after a few days obtain'd a discharge. The report of 
the requisition will probably be brought in to day. 2 all the States eastw'd 
of Pennsyl'a inclusive are interested in keeping up the present estimate 
and regulating the collection of the sums call'd for so as to pay the in- 
terest of it and of it alone. In vain it is argued that it is not founded on 
the true state of the domestic debt and therefore improper and oppressive. 
That untill the liquidation takes place it sho'd be accomodated as much 
as possible to the convenience of the States — That it cannot be expected 

2 The report of the grand committee on requisitions is found in the Journals under 
July 18. It is endorsed as having been read July u (see ibid., p. 522 n.), which is 
probably an error for July 12. See further the Journals, July 22, 26, 28, Aug. 3, 16, Sept. 8 
et seq.; cf. nos. 109 (note 4). 156 (note 6), 172, ante, 182, 184, 191. 192, 194-196, 203. 228. 
236, post. 



July, Ij8$ 165 

whilst some of the States fail altogether and present at the same time an 
asylum to those who fly from the duties of govt, that others will continue 
to harrass their citizens in making payments. I intended saying some thing 
upon the commerc'l subject but have not time. Don Diego de Gordoqui 
hath arriv'd and been presented to Congress. He presented a letter of 
credence from the King and has full powers to treat upon the subject of 
the disputed boundary etc. yet he is stil'd Encargado de negotios, in con- 
sequence of the character of our resid't at Madrid, we take his stile from 
his letter of credence and call him Encargado de negotios. he is a polite 
and sensible man. 3 .... 



174. The Delegates of Pennsylvania to the Continental 

Congress. 1 

[July 13, 1785.] 

The Delegates in Congress from the State of Pennsylvania having 
received Instructions from the President and Supreme Executive Council 
of the said State to make instant and earnest Application to the Minister 
of Spain for Redress of an Injury done to a Citizen of Philadelphia by 
the Conduct of Capt. Morales in receiving on Board a Spanish Frigate 
and conveying away, an indented Servant, the Property of Mr. Thomas 
Shields, 

And the said Delegates conceiving that such Application cannot with 
Propriety be made, but by order of Congress or by one of their Ministers 
or Servants : It is therefore moved 

That Congress will be pleased to cause Application to be made to the 
Minister of Spain for Redress of the Injury complained of by Mr. 
Thomas Shields a Citizen of Pennsylvania. 2 

3 Cf. nos. 153 (note 9), 172 (note 7), ante, 175, 179, post. 

[174] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 81, vol. I., f. 331. 

2 This paper is endorsed, " Application of Delegates of Pensylvania July 13, 1785. 
Referred to Secy, for foreign Affairs to report ". Jay's report, Aug. 15, is in the Journals, 
Aug. 16. See Jay to Gardoqui July 26 Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 157), Aug. 15 
(ibid., p. 160), and Gardoqui to Jay Aug. 15 (ibid., p. 161). The several documents in 
the case are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 81, vol. I., ff. 328-351 : Dickinson to Morales 
June 26, the latter's reply the same day, Dickinson to the delegates June 27, Jay's report 
to Congress, note from Pettit to Jay Aug. 16, requesting a copy of his report, affidavit 
of Thomas Shields, copy of the indenture, dated Nov. 13, 1783, binding Alexander Wilson 
to Shields's service for four years and six months, " in consideration of seventeen pounds 
ten shillings paid for his passage from Ireland ", and Shields's advertisement of Wilson 
as a " Runaway ". Dickinson's letters of June 26 and 27 and Jay's report are in Pa. 
Arch., first ser., X. 476, 477, 499. See no. 197, post. The reply of Captain Morales to 
Dickinson may appropriately be reproduced (translation of Peter S. Duponceau) : 

" Immediately on receiving Your honor's letter, I allowed the Bearer every facility 
on board of the frigate under my Command to obtain the end he wished, he has done but 
very little towards it. I am however well satisfied with having been of Service to your 
Honor whose Commands I shall ever receive and obey with pleasure." 



166 Continental Congress 

175. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, July 15, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The report respecting the treaty with the western indians hath 
been adopted, except in the change of the place at which it will be held, 
being the mouth of the Big Miami or the falls of the Ohio, instead of post 
Vincent, and the article respecting the people of the Kaskaskia, and neigh- 
boring villages, wh. altho' first adopted was afterward repealed from 
an apprehension it wld. create too great an expence. 2 The report of 
proposing a change in the first paragraph of the 9th of the articles of 
confederation hath been before Congress in a committee of the whole for 
two days past. The house are to take it up again on Monday in the same 
manner it hath been fully discuss'd and in my opinion the reasons in 
favor of it are conclusive, the opposition however is respectable in point 
of numbers as well as talents, in one or two instances, from our State 
you will readily conjecture the sentiments of one, Hardy is for it, Gray- 
son doubtful but I think rather in favor of it. Some gentn. have in- 
veterate prejudices against all attempts to increase the powers of Congress, 
others see the necessity but fear the consequences. It is propos'd by the 
latter and former classes that congress form and recommend a navigation 
act to the States, to continue in force for a limited time, what will or 
will not be done ultimately in this business is uncertain.* The report 
also upon the instructions hath been before Congress, and is referr'd to 
the consideration of some day next week, it will not probably be adopted. 4 
I have it in contemplation after a few weeks to set out for the Ohio to 
attend the treaty above mention'd. this will complete my tour thro' the 
western country. 

P S. Don Diego de Gardoqui hath been presented to Congress, he 
produc'd a letter from the King with full powers to treat upon the subjects 
arising between us, yet his Stile is Encargado de Negotios. we had some 
difficulty in regulating the etiquette respecting him — whether to consider 
him as a minister or Encargado de Negotios charge des affrs. and to 
avoid giving offence we have us'd the terms us'd by his master, we hope 
it will have the desir'd effect, a letter from the King with full power » I 
sho'd suppose constituted the minister be the term or stile what it mi 

[ 1 75] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 95; Bancroft, Formr. 
of the Constitution, I. 445. 

2 See no. 156, ante, and the Journals, June 15, 29. 

» See the Journals, July 13, 14; cf. nos. 153, 156, ante, 182, 183, 104, 196, post. 

*Cf. nos. 101, 153, 156, 167, ante, 182, 183, 104-196, 203, post. Gerry wrote to John 
Adams July 14 giving a summary account of proceedings in Congress, mentioning among 
other things, " We have a report before Congress for establishing a mint ". A copy of dm 
letter was at one time in possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York. 

6 Cf. nos. 153 (note 7), 172, 173, ante. 



July, 1785 167 

176. William Churchill Houston to Samuel Dick. 1 

Trenton 17 July 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have your Favour of 13 inst. but have not, since receipt of it, had an 
Opportunity to consult the Treasurer upon the Subject of that Part which 
relates to him. Hope he will be able to send you on some Cash by Mr. 
Cadwalader, who sets out Day after Tomorrow, I believe. The Treasury 
is, as usual low, but shall endeavour to add my best Solicitations to the 
Contents of your Letter, Ho[pe the] Pump of Aldgate may produce a 
small Supply. 2 I am extremely sorry that the State is not represented but 
this will not be the Case much longer than my Letter is reaching you. Mr. 
Cadwalader is a punctual Man, and has himself set the, Time. 3 

It would give me much Pleasure if you loved to write as well as I do 
to read, for I am very anxious to hear how the requisition, the Regulation 
of Trade and the Mint go on — The latter rather as a Matter of Curiosity 
for I think any other Coinage except that of Copper, of little Consequence 
in this Country, at present, otherwise than as a Beginning, and as it 
would probably save us some Trouble in Weighing by putting an End to 
Clipping. 

I find we have a deep Interest at Stake in the affair of the Old Con- 
tinental Currency, there being yet out standing of our Quota unredeemed 
and I doubt in great Part unprovided for 5,553,104 Dollars, according 
to the best Calculation from Documents here. Should the Ratio of it's 
value be placed high, that is low in Numbers, it would set heavy on our 
Shoulders — Even at 150 it would be about 37000 Dollars. 

Let me hear from you as often as possible and believe that I will be 
thankful; and inclose a Paper when you have it to spare. 

I am, dear Sir Your obedt. Servt. 

W C Houston 

[P. S.] Should any Letters come upon the Table directed to me be 
so good as to enclose and frank them forward. 

[176] 1 Original in possession of Mr. Charles Mecum, of Salem, N. J.; photostat fur- 
nished by courtesy of Mr. Frank H. Stewart of Woodbury, N. J. 

2 In his " Essay on the Knowledge and Characters of Men " Fielding speaks of 
the type of man " who relieves his friend in distress, by a draught on Aldgate pump ", and 
a footnote explains, "A mercantile phrase for a bad note ". See also H. B. Wheatley, 
London, Past and Present, I. 26-29. 

3 Dick's last recorded vote is on Friday, July 22, and he probably took his de- 
parture about that time. Lambert Cadwalader took his seat on Monday, July 25. The 
following order on the treasurer of New Jersey for an additional allowance, with Thomas 
Sinnickson' s receipt therefor, Jan. 26, 1787, is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll. M. O. C. : 

" James Motte Esq. Treasurer of the State of New Jersey 

" Pay Thomas Sinnickson Esq. Fifty two Pounds Seventeen Shillings and Six pence 
being the Extra Sum allowed me by a Resolve of the Legislature for my attendance in 
Congress at Trenton and New York, one Hundred and forty one Days at Seven Shillings 
and Six pence per Day Saml. Dick 

" Recivd January 26th 1787 of James Mott treasurer the Sum of fifty Two Pounds 
Seventeen Shillings and Six Pence. It being the Sum allowed to doct. Samuel Dick 
Esqr. as an Additional Allowance for his attendance In Congress one Hundred and forty 
one days at one dollars per Day agreeable to a Resolution of the Legislature March 21st, 
1786 £52.17.6 Thos. Sinnickson " 



168 Continental Congress 

177. The President of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs. 1 

Presidents House 19th July 1785. 
Sir, 

The letter from his most Christian Majesty mentioned in yours of the 
1 8th instant is to be received in the same manner as the late letter from 
his Majesty was. And I have the honor now to inform you that I shall 
be ready to receive M'r De Marbois here tomorrow forenoon at half an 
hour after ten oClock. 2 



178. The President of Congress to the Mayor of New York 
(James Duane). 1 

July 20th, 1785.* 
Sir, 

I have the honour to enclose an Act of Congress, that has been 
prompted by the daily interruption given to their discussions by the almost 
unceasing noise of passing Carriages. Your long acquaintance with public 
business, and your wish to see it discharged with propriety and dispatch, 
will secure your approbation of the proposed remedy if it shall be found 
to consist with the police of the City. 8 



179. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York July the 23d, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . Mr. Jay is commissioned by Congress to open negotiations with 
Mr. Gardoque the Spanish Plenepo. here, concerning the navigation of 

[177] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV. 649; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), II. 375. 

2 See the Journals, July 19 (p. 564 n.). The letter from the King of France was 
probably that of May 10 relative to Lafayette (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., J783-i78g { I. 95.) 
See Marbois to Jay July 18 {ibid., p. 164), Jay to Marbois July 19 {ibid.), Marbois to Jay 
July 19 {ibid., p. 166), and Marbois to Jay July 20 (ibid.). Concerning the "late 1 
from his Majesty" (announcing the birth of a dauphin) see ibid., pp. 145-147, and the 
Journals, lune 3 (p. 4-711.), 7 (p. 433 n.), and 14. The secretary for foreign affairs 
immediately (June 14) transmitted the joyful news to all the states. The circular letter 
may be found in Clinton Papers, VIII. 393, Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 475, and in N. C. 
State Recs., XVII. 468. Governor Caswell, in turn, issued a proclamation upon the 
event (letter to Jay July 23, ibid., p. 486). 

[ 1 78] x Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 322; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
II. 376. 

2 The Marvland delegates, Mcllcnry and Uindman, wrote to Daniel of St. 
Thomas Jenifer July 20: "Congress will not probably adjourn this Year. They are at 
present upon the Requisition for Supplies, which We flatter Ourselves will pass in a 
few days" (II 4 Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C, in the writing of Hindman). 

•See the Journals, July 10, 22 (p. 571 n.). 

[ 1 79] l Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 376. 



July, 1785 169 

Mississippi, Boundary, Commerce etc. The Spanish Minister appears to 
be well disposed toward us. 2 .... 

180. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New 
Hampshire (John Langdon). 1 

New York. 
Sir, 

We are honored with your Excellencys letters of the nth instant in 
answer to ours of the 27th ulto. touching the appointment of Mr. Edward 
Dowse as surveyor of lands in the western territory. The several gentle- 
men who have accepted that trust are summoned to meet at fort pit the 
first of August, upon which and our being confirmed in opinion that Mr. 
Dowse is every way adequate to fill that place, and is now here, that was 
your Excellency, to have met the honorable Council at an earlier period 
and nominated him, it would have been tantamount to our wishes. We 
do not ask this nomination on the presumption that no Gentleman of 
equal abilities can be found in New Hampshire but are fearful that those 
who are suitable will decline going so far abroad. 

As Mr. Dowse is determined to wait till you have met your honorable 
Council we think it advisable to inform you of the same, that should 
The] be agreed to you may know he is in reddiness to proceed on the busi- 
ness of his appointment. 2 

July 24th 1785. 

2 See the Journals, July 20, and Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 154-160; 
cf. nos. 172, 173, 175, ante. In preceding passages Lee gives some account of European 
news as conveyed in letters of Dumas, Lafayette, and Adams. The letter of Dumas was 
probably that of Jan. 31 (Dipl.^ Corr., U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 537) ; Lafayette's letter 
was that of May 11 to Jay (ibid., I. 310) ; the reference to Adams's letter is to that of 
June 1 (ibid., II. 367; Works, VIII. 254). Adams's letter of June 2, relating more 
circumstantially his reception, was received about a month later (see the Journals, 
Aug. 26). Cf. nos. 182, 183, 192, post. 

John Quincy Adams, the bearer of these and other letters, arrived just at a moment 
when a matter concerning him was under consideration. On June 2 (Journals, p. 416 n.) 
the board of treasury had reported upon a memorial of Francis Dana praying for reim- 
bursement for certain expenses while minister to Russia, including the pay of his private 
secretary, who was John Quincy Adams. On July 22 two orders for reimbursement in 
definite amounts, as reported by the board of treasury, were adopted, and on the motion 
of Gerry it was resolved that Dana be allowed his " necessary expences " for a private 
secretary. The adjustment of the latter item gave rise to a somewhat caustic controversy 
between Dana and the treasury officials and was not finally settled until Oct. 2, 1787 
(see also the Journals, Sept. 28, Oct. 13, 1786). The affair is circumstantially set forth 
in letters of Samuel Osgood to Dana, Dec. 2 (?), 1785, and Jan. 8, 1786, and Dana to 
Osgood, Jan. 2, 1786 (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Osgood Papers). See further no. 756, post. 

[i8o] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788 
(signed by Foster and Long). 

2 Nathaniel Adams, chosen as surveyor for New Hampshire (see nos. 133, 141, 
ante), declined the office (Journals, June 20), and thereupon the delegates wrote to 
President Weare (June 27, no. 164, ante) to recommend Edward Dowse. On Aug. 15 
however Ebenezer Sullivan was elected in place of Adams ; but when Sullivan in turn 
also declined Dowse was chosen and accepted (Journals, Aug. 24, Sept. 5). 



170 Continental Congress 

181. John Vining to the President of Delaware 
(Nicholas Vandyke). 1 

New- York July 24 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Agreeble to the request of the Delegates of Massachussets, I have 
the honor to enclose to you a late act of that state relative to commerce. 
Your Excellency will be kind enough to lay it before the Assembly, at 
their next session, as it is certainly a matter of the utmost Importance, 
and demands their most serious Consideration. 2 I have nothing more 
to communicate, than I did in my last touching the requisition, as it is 
precisely in the same situation in which it then was — 

I have the Honor to be your Excellency's very Humble Servant 

John Vining 

182. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York July 25th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

The inclosed letters were handed to me the other day by young Mr. 
Adams, son of Mr. John Adams, who has arrived in the last packet t. and 
no private opportunity offering, I do myself the honor of transmitting 
them by Post. 

Congress are informed by a letter from Mr. Adams, that he has been 
introduced to the King of G. B. in due form and received as a public 
Minister from the U. S. of America. They have also received from the 
Comm'rs for forming commercial treaties projects of two treaties ; the 
one with the King of Prussia, the other with the Grand Duke of Tuscany ; 
the former it is expected is signed before this by the American Ministers. 
Don Diego de Gardoqui (who has plenipotentiary powers) has 1 
received and Congress have passed a commission to Mr. Jay Secretary 
for foreign affairs to negotiate with him. J 

Congress have lately paid great attention to the proposed alteration of 
the 9th article of the <. <>n federation, and it has been debated several times ; 
I did myself the honor of inclosing this paper some time ago; there 
seems to be three opinions; some are for the alteration as reported pro- 
vided Eleven and not nine States have the exercise of the powers, others 
are for forming a navigation act, and submitting the same to the States ; 
a third opinion is against any change whatever. 

I expect after the subject has been thoroughly investigated, it will by 
consent be put off till the members have had an opportunity of con- 
sulting the legislatures.* 

[181] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 198. note 2, post. 
[18a] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 112. 

2 See no. 179 (note 2), ante, and nos. 183, 191, 192, 195, 196, post. Concerning 
reports from the commissioners see no. 167, ante. 

*Cj. nos. 156, 175. ante, 183, 194, 196, post. 



July, 1785 m 

The requisition for the current year is nearly finished; By this the 
States are called upon to pay three Millions of dollars, *. e. one Million 
in specie, and two Millions in Interest on liquidated certificates, the whole 
containing a provision as well for the purposes of Government as for 
the Interest on the foreign and domestic debt. 4 

I beg leave to inclose propositions respecting the coinage of Gold 
Silver and Copper, which are at present before Congress. 5 



183. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York July 26, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last a report proposing a change in the first paragraph of the 
9th of the articles of confederation hath been taken up and acted on two days 
in a committee of the whole. It proposes to invest Congress with power 
to regulate trade externally and internally. Those in favor of it were of 
opinion that the exercise of this power in the hands of each State, wo'd 
be less advantageous to its particular interests, than in those of the union, 
because if in the regulation of trade it was sought 1. to encourage 
domestic industry in any line, by a tax upon foreign, which however 
remote at present may hereafter be the case. 2. if to obtain reciprocity 
in its commercial intercourse with foreign nations, either with or with- 
out treaties. 3. if to establish a commercial interest within, in contra- 
distinction to a foreign one, and thereby keep its councils independent 
of foreign influence. 4. or to raise a naval strength for the publick 
safety, all these ends might be obtain'd more effectually by the exercise 
of the power in the hands of the union than of each State, for unless 

4 Cf. nos. 156 (note 6), 173 (note 2), ante, 186, 192, 194, 203, 228, 236, post. 

• r > See nos. 151, 172, ante, 203, 217, 227, 315, post. The "propositions" are in the 
Journals, May 13. Congress had thus far adopted (July 6) only three of the propositions, 
namely, that the unit should be one dollar ; that the smallest coin should be of copper, 
200 of which should pass for one dollar ; and that " the several pieces shall increase in 
a decimal ratio ". On July 28 a plan of coinage by Capt. Frederick H. Walden was 
laid before Congress, but no action appears to have been taken on it (see no. 217, post). 
It happened that on the same day Nathaniel Gorham wrote from Boston to Samuel 
Holten with regard to the matter of coinage, remarking, " if you remember when we 
were at Congress togeather a Mr. Bridges of London a worthy man and good Friend 
to America made an offer to Congress to supply them with a suitable quantity of conper 
coin" (from the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline). This was Edward Bridgen, 
between whom and Franklin there had been correspondence on the subject since 1779. 
See Franklin to Bridgen Oct. 2, 1779 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 355), and Franklin 
to Livingston Dec. 24, 1782 (ibid., VI. 163). Several letters from Bridgen to Franklin 
on the subject are in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, noted in the Calendar as follows: 
Sept. 17, 1779 (II. 141), Nov. 19, 1779 (II. 171), Dec. 21, 1782 (II. 516), Sept. 8, 1783 
(III. 105), May 11, 1784 (III. 188). As late as 1786 (?) he wrote Franklin that he had 
an ambition to present the states with " the handsomest and best copper coin in the 
world" (III. 327). The letter of Sept. 8, 1783, indicates that the firm of Bridgen and 
Waller had previously written to Livingston on the subject. It was not until Apr. 12, 
1786, that Congress again took up seriously the problem of a mint and coinage. See nos. 
462, 471, 543, 645, 646, post; also Washington to Grayson Aug. 22 (Writings, ed. Sparks, 
IX. 124). 

[ 183] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 97; Bancroft, 
Formation of the Constitution, I. 445- 
18 



172 Continental Congress 

they act in concert in every instance instead of counteracting the regu- 
lations of other powers, they will become instrumental in their hands to 
impede and defeat those of each other : that there was but one alternative 
either to act together or against each other, that the latter plan establish'd 
deep-rooted jealousies and enmities between them, at the same time that 
it wo'd be unsuccessful! : greater under its operation for any length of 
time than they wo'd have against other powers, since being more con- 
venient and better able to frustrate each others measures, their restrictions 
must be more severe and pointed against each other than against other 
powers. That such a course tended to throw them apart and weaken the 
present rights of the confederacy. That their interests were nearly similar 
being all exporting and importing States — that it was of little consequence 
whether they exported the same or different materials, since the restric- 
tions which tended to restrain exportation, wo'd injure the whole, and 
they were all equally interested in getting their admission upon the best 
terms into the ports of foreign powers. That they imported nearly the 
same materials and of course had the same interest in that line. That if 
there were different interests in every instance the restriction of every 
measure to II. States the number propos'd with the revenue to each State 
wo'd. form a sufficient security, on the other side it was argued i . that 
it was dangerous to concentrate power, since it might be turn'd to mis- 
chievous purposes; that independent of the immediate danger of in- 
toxication in those entrusted with it, and their attempts on the govern- 
ment, it put us more in the power of other nations. 2. that the interests 
of the different parts of the union were different from each other, and 
that the regulations which suited the one would not the other part. That 
8. States were of a particular interest whose business it wo'd lie to 
combine to shackle and fetter the others. 3. that all attacks upon the 
confederation were dangerous and calculated even if they did not sm. 
to weaken it. These I think were the principal arguments on either side, 
tho' they were carried out into great extent. I think Colo. Gra\ 
inform'd me sometime since he had transmitted to you the report other- 
wise I sho'd now do it. I wish very much your sentiments on the subj< 
By the packet we are inform'd that Mr. Adams had arriv'd in London, 
been presented to the King and well receiv'd. The ceremonial had only 
taken place when his dispatches were forwarded, so that he had not pro- 
ceeded to business. 8 Mr. Gardoqui is here; Congress have authoriz'd 
the secretary of foreign affrs. to treat with him upon the subject of iiis 
mission. 4 

P. S 



2 See nos. iox, 118, 153, 156, 175, ante; the Journals, July 13, 14; and nos. 192-196, 
203, Post. Madison's reply, Aug. 7, is in Writings, II. 155. 
8 Cf. nos. 179, 182, ante, 186, 191, 192, post. 
* See no. 182, note 2, ante, and nos. 186, 192, 195, 196, Post. 



July, 1785 173 

184. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(William Paca). 1 

New- York July 27th, 1785. 
Sir, 

We must request the Favor of you, to transmit as soon as you can, 
a copy of the Act passed our Legislature for procuring a Supply of 
Cloathing and fresh Provision, passed We believe in the spring of 1781, 
in consequence of a Letter from Genl. Washington. 2 

Congress are now upon the Requisition and very uncertain when it 
will be got through. 3 There seems little Probability at present of Congress 
adjourning this Year. 

185. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular Office of the Secretary of Congress 

July 28th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have it in charge as your excellency will see by the enclosed Resolve, 
to apply to the Executives of the several States for thirteen copies of the 
legislative Acts thereof since the first of September 1774 inclusive. 

The purpose for which these copies are desired, and the end to be 
answered, are fully explained in the Resolution : And as the object is, 
not merely to procure information to the federal Council, but to establish 
a mutual confidence, and good understanding among the States, and that 
each may derive assistance, in the great work of legislation, from the 
joint wisdom of the whole, I rely with confidence that Your Excellency 
will be pleased to order the thirteen copies of the Acts of your legislature 
from the time above mentioned to be forwarded as speedily as possible : 
And that you will make the necessary arrangements that I may be fur- 
nished from time to time with the Acts which shall hereafter be passed. 2 

[184] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 150 (signed by McHenry and Hindman). 

2 The Maryland delegates made a motion July 21 relative to cattle furnished by 
the state for the campaign of 1781, and, while the motion was lost, the request for the 
act was doubtless connected with the purposes of that motion. See also their motion 
July 29. 

3 Elbridge Gerry wrote to John Adams Aug. 3, " The requisition is before Con- 
gress, but we can do nothing with it at present". He also discusses the Cincinnati. (See 
nos. 218, 237, post.). A copy of this letter was at one time in possession of Mr. W. R. 
Benjamin of New York. 

[185] 1 Pa. State Lib., P. P., CXIII; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 114; ibid., Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788; N. Y. State Lib.. Clinton 
Papers, no. 5624 ; N. J. State Lib. ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans, 
no. 702 (copy transmitted by Thomson Oct. 27, 1788) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 488; 
N. C. State Recs., XVII. 495- 

2 The resolve was of July 27. Governor Caswell replied to Thomson Aug. 23, 
that the session laws of North Carolina had been printed " on such paper as we were 
able to procure, scarcely the whole of one Session on paper of the same size ", with the 
result that binding them had been impracticable, and that, besides, the existing copies 
had been much worn and torn by usage. He expected however a revision of the laws 
and a new impression, and in that event he would send forward the copies required 
(N. C. State Recs., XVII. 509). See also Caswell to the general assembly Nov. 21 
(ibid., p. 269), Caswell to John Lawrence, Dec. 20, 1785, acknowledging a volume of the 
laws of Connecticut (ibid., p. 594), and Thomson to Caswell Nov. 9 (ibid., p. 565, and 
no. 276. post) ; cf. no. 199, post. A copy of this letter was transmitted by Secretary 



174 Continental Congress 

186. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams. 1 

M n ~. New York August the ist 1785. 

I received your letter by your Son with the pleasure that will always 
attend such communications from an old and much valued Friend. 2 . . . . 
Congress have taken measures for exposing to sale several millions of 
Acres in the N. W. side of the river Ohio, a part of the late cession from 
Virginia, for the purpose of paying off a considerable part of our domestic 
debt. The soil and climate of that country is incomparably fine, and I 
have no doubt will be greedily purchased with the public securities. If 
this plan succeeds, our debt will soon be removed. Be so kind as present 
my respectful compliments to Dr. Price, and tell him that I received his 
packet of pamphlets and distributed them among the Members of Congress 
who received them very thankfully and with the respect due to so able 
a defender of the liberties of Mankind, and the rights of human 
nature. 8 .... 



187. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 
Sir August 3d, 1785. 

Enclosed is a duplicate of my letter of the 28 July which accompanied 
an Act of the United States in Congress assembled passed the 27, and to 
which I hope to be honoured with an Answer as soon as convenient. I 
embrace the present opportunity of forwarding two copies of the Con- 
tinuation of the journal of Congress to the 29th July, one for the legisla- 
tive and the other for the executive branch of Government." 

Thomson to each of the states on Oct. 22, 1788, with a list of the laws received up to 
that time, and with a request that deficiencies be supplied. See no. 949, post. 

The following memorandum, in the writing of David Howell and signed by Ellery 
and Howell, is appended to a printed copy of the resolve of July 27, 1785 ("That the 
Secretary of Congress apply to the executives of the several states ', etc.) : 

"Agreeably to the preceding resolution of Congress the underwritten delegates tor 
the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations have given their receipt in the 
Office of the Secretary of Congress and herewith transmit for the use of sd. State an 
incomplete copy of the laws of Massachusetts." 

On the reverse of the sheet is the following memorandum in the writing of Charles 
Thomson: "Aug. 4. answer from Pensylvania The Council will lay it before the 
Assembly and are assured they will take measures to carry it into effect " : and the follow- 
ing in the writing of Roger Alden : " this is entered in the files of resolves — acts 
R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 73. 

[186]' Letters (ed. Ballagh). II. 378. 

2 Adams's letter, dated Apr. 29, is in Am. Phil. Soc., Lee Papers : his reply to 
Lee, Sept. 6, is ibid. The letters are printed in Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 140, 143. 
This letter to Adams is largely a discussion of the problems pertaining to a commercial 
treaty with Great Britain and particularly a rebuttal of the argument advanced by 
"some ill informed writers" in Great Britain, "that Congress have not power to 
make effecient Treaties of ( ornmerce ". Cf. the letters of Stephen Higginson to A<' 
Aug. 8 and Dec. 30. 17X5, in Am. Hist Assoc., Annual Report, 1896, vol. I., pp. 719, 725. 
8 See no. 9, ante. 

[187] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 116; N. C. State Recs., XVII 
496. 

* A notation in the Letter-Book indicates that this paragraph constituted the 
letter to Georgia, South Carolina. Virginia, New York, and Massachusetts. 



August, 1785 175 

On this Occasion I beg leave to observe that your State is at present 
unrepresented. As the keeping up a constant representation in Congress 
is of great importance to the Union and the want of it is attended with 
many inconveniences I take the liberty of recalling your attention to 
this subject and for that purpose enclose two acts of the United States 
in Congress assembled, one passed the 1st Novr. 1785, and the other the 
19 April 1784. By these your Excellency will see that it is the earnest 
desire of Congress that the several States should not only keep up a 
representation, but that each state should at all times when Congress are 
sitting to be represented by three members at least. Though the journals 
which I have transmitted will give you a full knowledge of the state of 
representation in Congress, yet that you may have a more comprehensive 
view of it, I enclose an Abstract which I have caused to be made of the 
attendance of the States since the first Monday in Novr. last. 3 

[Following is the abstract enclosed:] 

Abstract of Attendance of the States in Congress. 

From the first Monday in Novr. 1784 to 29 July 1785 inclusive. 4 
the Attendance noted — 169 times. 

Newhampshire represented 120 times. 

Massachusetts 15 2 

Rhodeisland 136 

Connecticut 106 

New York 146 " 

New Jersey 126 

Pensylvania 130 

Delaware 30 " 

Maryland 115 " 

Virginia 162 " 

North Carolina 96 " 

South Carolina 142 " 

Georgia 66 " 

14 times, not seven States. 
28 " only 7 or 8 represented. 
49 " nine States Do. 
40 " ten " Do. 

32 " Eleven " Do. 

6 " Twelve " Do. 

N B Sent copy of act of Nov 1st 1783 and 19 April 1784 and of the ab. to 
Massachusetts. 

3 A marginal notation in the Letter-Book shows that the whole of this letter was 
sent to governors of North Carolina, Delaware, New Jersey, and Connecticut. A 
further note says, " the same omitting these words ' On this occasion I beg leave to 
observe that your state is unrepresented ' To Newhampshire Rhodeisland Maryland ". 
Governor Caswell's reply, Aug. 30, is in N. C. State Rccs., XVII. 516. Cf. no. 189, post. 

4 In Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 287, is a paper in the writing of Roger Alden, 
marked in the margin, " Delegates in Congress Augt. 1785 ", and bearing the heading 
" The Members of Congress in the Delegation — NB — the Members marked # are not 
attending ". The list, which is arranged in the customary geographical order of states, 
includes men who had long since been out of their respective delegations, and is other- 
wise deficient. 



176 Continental Congress 

188. The Secretary of Congress to the Treasurer of the United 
States (Michael Hillegas). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

August 5th 1785.* 
Sir, 

I have it in charge to inform you that your removal to the City of 
New York to administer the duties of your office as Treasurer of the 
United States of America is indispensable; but that if you can so far 
arrange your private affairs as to remove to this place by the first of 
October next, Congress will not proceed to the appointment of a person 
to succeed you. 

The attention to your private convenience is so strong an instance of 
their favour, and desire of continuing you in office that I am confident 
it must make a deep impression, and if possible induce your removal. I 
shall expect your Answer as soon as your determination is fixed. 

[Note appended in Letter-Book :] 

Duplicate transmitted 16th August with this addition The above is 
a duplicate of my last, finding that there is an impatience to know the 
result of your determination, I must request the favour of an answer as 
soon as convenient. 8 

189. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

August 9th, 1785. 
Sir, 

The design of the letter, I have now the honor to write to your Excel- 
lency, is to re-call your attention to an Act of the 23d of March 1784, 
which you will find enclosed, together with two other Acts on the subject 
of keeping up a representation in Congress. By those Acts, your Excel- 
lency will perceive it is the earnest desire of the United States, in Congress 
assembled, that the several States, should not only keep up a constant 
representation by three members at least, but that there should be a uni- 
formity throughout the Union, in the commencement of the Year, for 

[ 1 88] • Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 121. 

2 Thomson's letter of notification to Rev. John Rogers of his appointment as 
chaplain of Congress, Aug. 5. is in N. J. Hist. Soc., Misc. MSS., and in Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 119. 

8 See no. 157, ante, and Hardy's motion of Aug. 5, which was referred to the 
secretary to take order. Hillegas replied to Thomson Aug. 20 : "I am under so many 
obligations to Congress as well as your self, for your last Letters and their favourable 
opinion of me That I want words to express as fully as I could wish my feelings on the 
occasion. I must confess I don't feel clever at the thoughts of leaving that Hon'ble Body — 
And therefore in consequence of their last determination will once more try what I can 
do in arranging some of my Affairs, and so as to give you and them an Answer before 
long" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XII., f. 423). The letter is endorsed, "Read 
22 Aug. 1785". King wrote to Pickering Aug. 31, " Mr. Hillegas it is said will come to 
this City with his Department" (Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XVIII. 270). See 
no. 214, post. 

[189] 1 Pa. State Lib., P. P., CXIV. ; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 123; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 494. 



August, 1785 177 

which the Delegates are appointed. Both the letter and spirit of the 
confederation, point out the first Monday in November, as the commence- 
ment of the f oederal year ; Nine of the States in the union view it in the 
same point of light, and have made their appointments conformable 
thereto. I trust therefore that your Excellency will recommend this matter 
to the consideration of your legislature and that they will adopt measures 
to comply with the wishes of Congress in this respect. 2 

190. Richard Dobbs Spaight to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

New Bern, 10th Aug., 1785. 
Sir, 

Having performed my Tour of duty as a Delegate to Congress for the 
present year agreeable to the Resolves of the General Assembly, and no 
further duty being required of me I beg leave to resign my appointment 
for the residue of the year. 

I have also to inform your Excellency that my private business having 
been long neglected demands my immediate attention, and obliges me to 
decline the honor which the Assembly have done me, by appointing me 
one of their Delegates to Congress from the first Monday in November 
next. 2 

191. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of South 

Carolina (William Moultrie). 1 

New York Aug'st 10th, 1785. 
Sir, 

We did ourselves the honor of writing to your Excellency the 24th day 
of June last; since which we are honored with your favors of the 24th 
and 30th June and 1st July last. 

His Excell'y Governor Livingston, declining the appointment to the 
Hague, the Hon'ble Mr. J. Rutledge has been unanimously elected in 
his room — we flatter ourselves that he will accept, as it is an office in 
which his abilities may be exerted for the general benefit of the Union 
and the particular interest of our State. 2 

2 This letter was addressed to. the four states, namely, South Carolina, Georgia, 
Maryland, and Pennsylvania, which had not yet regularized their election of delegates 
to conform to the Congressional year beginning the first Monday in November. The 
letters to the governors of South Carolina and Georgia contain in addition an initial 
paragraph as follows : " In my letter of the 3d which went by the Neptune, Capt. Guest, 
I forwarded two copies of the continuance of the Journal of Congress up to the 29th July." 
Besides the resolution of Mar. 23, 1784, designed to regularize the election of delegates, 
the acts enclosed were probably those of Nov. I, 1783, and Apr. 19, 1784, the same that 
were transmitted with the letter of Aug. 3 (no. 187, ante). 
[igopiV. C. State Recs., XVII. 503. 

2 Caswell's reply, Aug. 16, is ibid., p. 504. See no. 146, ante. 
[191] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Rutledge was elected July 5. His letter of resignation, Aug. 1, was read in 
Congress Aug. 24. On the same day Ralph Izard was nominated for the post by Jacob 
Read. See nos. 101 (note 7), 153 (note 8), ante; cf. no. 210, post. 



178 Continental Congress 

The Treasury department is filled by the election of Mr. A. Lee. 3 

We feel much satisfaction in communicating to your Excellency, that 
the cloud which threatned a degree of coolness between the court of 
France and these United States is happily dispelled, by that courts re- 
linquishing their demand [for the] delivery of [Longchamps]. — this event 
gives very general joy to all the true friends of the Union. 4 

A general adjustment and final settlement of the accounts of individual 
States against the Union is a matter which Congress have much at heart, 
to effect this purpose there is now before Congress a proposition to the 
following effect — That the commissioners of the United States for 
settling the accts. of individual States, shall settle all accts. that shall be 
exhibited to him before the 31st Deer. 1786 and transmit the same to the 
Board of Treasury who shall order the same to be passed to the credit 
of the State and the balance shall draw an interest of 6 pr. Ct. which in- 
terest shall either be a deduction from or an addition to the States quota 
as the balance shall appear for or against the State and shall be included 
in the next and each ensuing requisition. 

And that the commissioners shall continue to transmit to the board of 
Treasury annually the accts. of the States made up to the 31st [of 
December in every succeeding year] which shall [in like] manner he 
passed to their credit, until the whole are closed and settled, this propo- 
sition takes into its purview all supplies of what ever kind — all monies 
paid by States and each States quota of 200,000,000 dol's emitted during 
the war, which quota (subject to future revission) is ascertained by 
resolution of the 18th March 1780.° We think it our duty thus early 
to give this information to your Excell'y that if the proposition should 
be carried into a resolution the gentleman who has the settling of our 
accounts may be urged to close them as speedily as possible and that the 
legislature may at their next meeting adopt such measures as to them 
shall seem proper for calling in 15,600,000 dollars, our quota of the 
200,000,000 dol's emitted during the war — but whether this proposition 
takes place or not a speedy settlement of the public accts. is a matter much 
to be wished as on a view of the Treasury books of the Union our State 
stands debtor upwards of Twenty five Millions of dollars. [This includes 
our quota of the one] Million two hundred thousand [dollars required by 

8 Lee's election was on July 27. His acceptance, July 31, was read in Con^: 
Aug. 1. See nos. 101 (note 16), 170, ante, and no. 196, post. Various nominations were 
made Aug. 5 to fill Lee's place as Indian commissioner, among them Evan Edwards, 
nominated by Charles Pinckney. 

* For the course of the Longchamps affair see nos. 45 (note 7), 68, 101 (note 8), 
124 (note 7), ante. Jay reported to Congress Aug. 2 (Journals, p. 50K) that Marbois 
had informed him "that his Court would not persist in their Demand" for the delivery 
of Longchamps, and further requested that the original demand and accompanying papers 
be returned to him, " so that the Matter might remain as if no such Demand had been 
made". On Aug. 23 Congress gave orders accordingly. Jay transmitted the papers to 
Marbois Aug. 31 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 178), and Marbois responded 
Sept. 24 (ibid., p. 181). Jay's letter to Congress Aug. 2 (noted tbovc) is ibid., p i'C 
See also Jay to Jefferson Sept. 14 (ibid., p. 618) and Jefferson to Jay Aug. 14 (ibid., 
p. 624). 

• See the Journals, July 7. M. 18, 26, 28, 29, Aug. 1, 3, 5, Sept. 8, 13, 24, 26, 27 ; </. 
nos. 132, 156, 171, 172, 173. ante, 203, 207, 236, 255, post. 



August, 1785 179 

the] ° resolution of the 4th Septr. 1782 for the express purpose of paying 
interest to domestic creditors, And our quota of 8 Million dollars re- 
quired by resolution of the 30th Octr. 1781, which we imagine will be 
balanced by the payments we made in supplies and monies in 1782 and 
1783. While on the adjustment of public accts. we beg leave again to 
mention, with respect to those assumptions which the State has made to 
individuals for demands against the Union, that where it can possibly 
be done our Commissioner should be directed (if he has not followed 
that method) to take the certificates as the representative of the individual 
and not generally to the State — our reason for this is that in the first 
instance we shall be entitled to receive an annual interest which will go 
in alleviation of our quota, but if we take it as a general certificate to the 
State it will not give this relief but be passed to our credit at a final 
settlement of the accounts of the Confederacy. 

As we have mentioned [ ] 7 our quota of the 1,200,000 for 

the payment of domestic interest, we beg leave to observe that the ap- 
propriation of this sum was totally left to the respective States and is 
not held as a transaction of the federal treasury, but on the contrary 
Congress have supposed that each State has complied by paying their 
citizens the interest due them by the Union, as will appear by resolution 
of 27th April 1784 to which we beg leave to refer, therefore the sup- 
position of the Committee of ways and means in our last session of 
assembly, that this sum might be deducted out of our supplies furnished 
in 1782 is a mistake and this sum is yet to be provided and appropriated 
to the discharge of the interest due on loan office and other certificate 
which was due antecedent to 1st Jany. 1782. 

There are other resolutions of Congress which our legislature have not 
acted upon, those which at present occur and which in our opinion are of 
much consequence [are the resolution of] April [18, 1783, calling upon 
our] State [for] 96,183 dol's as a supplementary fund in aid of the 
impost and recommending an alteration of the eighth article of the con- 
federation, and resolution of 30th April 1784 recommending to the States 
to grant a power of regulating trade for 15 Years. 

There is one other matter we beg leave to trouble your Excell'y upon, 
which is respecting the returns to the War office, we find that there has 
been no returns made from our State for the years 1777, 1780 and 1781, 
the two last years our line being prisoners may make it difficult to ascer- 
tain their numbers, but if it could possibly be done altho not perfect it 
would have a good effect. 

The Delegates of Massachusetts have requested us to forward to your 
Excell'y the inclosed Act of their State and have desired us to inform 
you that the intention of their Legislature is to counteract the machina- 
tions of the British nation, but that they are fully convinced their efforts 

6 Lacunae in the copy obtained of this letter are presumably in consequence of 
mutilations of the original manuscript. The missing words, conjecturally supplied, have 
been placed in square brackets. 

7 The copy indicates some missing word or words at this point, but the context 
suggests that probably only some such word as above is lacking. 



180 Continental Congress 

unsupported by those of their Sister States [will not only fail to ac- 
complish this aim] but will fail to effect those [other important pur] poses 
which they aim at, they therefore hope the assistance of the States in 
perfecting this laudable design, by passing such acts as they judge proper 
to effect these good purposes, until Congress shall be empowered to make 
general regulations respecting trade. 8 

The Hon'ble J. Adams has had his Audience at St. James's and was 
most graciously received. 

Don Gardoqui had his audience of reception the 2d July as Encargado 
de Negotios of his Catholic Majesty. The Hon'ble Mr. Jay Secretary in 
the department for foreign affairs is appointed by Congress to negotiate 
with him. 

The intelligence we have received from our Commissioners for nego- 
tiating treaties of commerce in Europe is that they are on the eve of 
concluding treaties with the courts of Berlin and Tuscany, And we have 
no doubt but that treaties are in great [state of forwardness with] the 
regencies of Tunis, Tripoli and Algiers. 9 

The Secretary of Congress will transmit to your Excell'y the journals 
of Congress. 

We have the honor to be with the greatest respect 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient and very humble Sen 

Jacob Read 
John Bull 
David Ramsay 10 
Charles Pinckney 
John Kean 

[Endorsed:] Reed. 2 September 1785 Delegates 10th Augt. 1785. 



192. Richard Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

N. Y. Augt. 11, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of July the 7th was long coming to hand as I find my letter 
of the 20th May was in getting to you. This joined to the uncertainty of 
letters ever arriving safe is a very discouraging circumstance to full and 
free correspondence. I have the honor of according most perfectly and 

8 See nos. 117, 181, ante, 192, 198, 199, 205, 269, post. 

9 See nos. 167, 179, 182, 183, ante; also the reports of the commissioners Apr. 13 
and May 3 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 575, 581). 

10 David Ramsay wrote Aug. 6 to Thomas Harwood, commissioner of the loan 
office in Maryland, transmitting bills drawn in his favor by the board of treasury and 
stating that, as he planned to take his departure for South Carolina on the 10th, John 
Kean was authorized to receipt for the money (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 2926). 
To Jefferson Ramsay wrote Aug. 8 with regard to his History of the Revolution in South 
Carolina and remarked, " I shall be absent from Congress till the latter end of October. I 
have obtained the favor of Col. Monroe to transmit to you the preceeding chapters by 
the next packets ". Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

[19a] 1 Univ. of Va., Lee Papers (draft); Southern Literary Messenger, May, i860, 
p. 348; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 382. 



August, 1/85 181 

entirely with your ideas for regulating our severance from Kentucky. 
It is unquestionably just that this district should assume her fair and 
full proportion of the debt created by the war because the benefit being 
common so should be the expense procuring it and that this contract shall 
be a fundamental article in the Act of parting : as well as that they shall 
be a component part of the Federal Union. The Contract should be 
Tripartite, the parties, our State, Congress, and Kentucky. 2 Mr. Jay is 
commissioned to treat with Mr. Gardoqui but as yet nothing has been 
done. The exclusive nav'n of Mississippi will be earnestly contended for 
by Spain, who to quiet us on that head will probably grant large com- 
mercial benefits. But if we remain firm, I incline to think that the Navig'n 
will be consented to. 3 As yet we only know officially that Mr. Adams has 
arrived in London, received his audience and delivered his Credentials. 
The next packet will probably inform us of his feeling the B. pulse and 
how it beats at the subjects that he is to try them upon. 4 I think with 
you that there is no great room for hope of Commercial advantages from 
a Nation whose appetite for Commerce has ever been ravenous, and its 
wishes always for Monoply — And the more especially as we have no 
compensation to make. I believe That we may dispose them to be reason- 
able, by a very careful, and considerate restraining of their Trade, in all 
cases where we shall not injure ourselves more than them by the Restraint. 
But it seems to me clear, beyond doubt, that the giving Congress a power 
to Legislate over the Trade of the Union would be dangerous in the 
extreme to the 5 Southern or Staple States, whose want of ships and 
seamen would expose their freightage and their produce to a most per- 
nicious and destructive Monopoly. With such a power 8 States in the 
Union would be stimulated by extensive interest to shut close the door of 
Monoply, that by the exclusion of all rivals whether for the purchasing 
of our produce or freighting it, both these might be at the Mercy of our 
East and North. The Spirit of Commerce thro-out the world is a spirit 
of Avarice and could not fail to act as above stated. What little difficulty 
there would be in drawing over one of the 5 to join the 8 interested 
States would be very discernable to those who have marked the progress 
of intrigue in Congress. In truth it demands most careful circumspec- 
tion that the Remedy be not worse than the disease, bad as the last may 
be. 5 .... 

2 Madison's letter of July 7 is in Writings, II. 147, and Letters (1865), I. 157. 
Lee's letter to Madison was dated May 30 (no. 142, ante); "20th" is probably a 
copyist's error. Concerning Kentucky see these Letters, vol. VII., pp. 446, 450, 451, 471 ; 
also nos. 146, 153, ante. 209, 308, post, and the Journals, Oct. 7, 12, 13. 

8 Cf. nos. 182, 183, ante, and no. 196, post. 

4 See nos. 179, 182, 183, ante. The next despatches from Adams, June 2, 6, ij, 
were laid before Congress Aug. 26. They are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 367, 
371, 378. A letter of June 10 is ibid., p. 376. Jay's acknowledgment (Aug. 26), of the 
three first mentioned is ibid., p. 383. 

5 Cf. nos. 181, 191, ante, 198, 199, 205, 250, 267, post. 



182 Continental Congress 

193. Charles Pettit to the President of Pennsylvania 
(John Dickinson). 1 

New York 12th August 1785. 
Sir, 

Messrs. Turnbull Marmie and Co having, by Memorial, stated to Con- 
gress their Claim to the Land on which the Fortifications at Pittsburg 
were erected, and prayed that the possession thereof may be delivered to 
them, the Delegates from Pennsylvania took an early Occasion to mention 
the Desire of Council communicated to them by your Excellency, that 
the Possession should be delivered to certain Commissioners of the State 
whenever Congress should think proper to remove the Garrison and Con- 
tinental Stores from thence. Such Removal will probably take Place 
shortly, tho' no formal Resolution for that Purpose has yet been passed : 
and as it is understood that Possession of that Post was taken on Behalf 
of the United States without any Treaty or Contract, it seems to be the 
Intention of Congress to relinquish it in the same manner, in order to 
avoid meddling with the Claims of the State or of Individuals as to the 
Right of Possession ; more especially as some have supposed that as it 
was formerly the Seat of a british Garrison, it became the Property of 
the U. S. by Conquest. To avoid Embarrassment on any of these Accounts 
it will probably be abandonned, rather than delivered up as a Possession 
to any Claimant : I have therefore advised Messrs. Turnbull, Marmie and 
Co., to make their Application to your Excellency and the Council on 
the Subject, presuming that the State Commissioners will be directed to 
take the Possession, on its being relinquished by the United States.* 

194. James McHenry to George Washington. 1 

New York. 14 Augt. 1 
D'r Sir, 

.... Congress have had it under consideration to recommend to the 
several States to vest them with the power of regulating the trade of the 
States as well with each other as with foreign nations. This power to 
constitute a part of the Confederation and to be exercised by nine si 
in congress assembled. Its object to enable Congress to lay as heavy 
duties and restrictions upon the trade of foreign nations, as foreign 
nations lay upon the trade of the united States. 2 I apprehend that both 

[193] 'Collection of Mr. D. McN. Stauffer, Yonkers, N. Y.; Pa. Arch., first ser 

2 A report on a memorial from Turnbull, Marmie, and Company, who claimed 
the proprietorship of the laud at Fort Pitt, was made Mar. 24, declining to urant the 
petition on the ground that present circumstances required that the post should remain 
in the possession of the troops of the United State--. On May n or 12 (set- the Journals, 
pp. 350 n., 351 n.) William Ducr preferred a memorial in behalf of Turnbull. Marmie, 
and ConMuqr. The matter was referred to the secretary at war, who made a report 
May 12. but the report is not in the Journals. A further memorial *u preferred by the 
Turnbull company Dec. 27, 1785. See the Journals. Mar. 20, 24, 1786; ef. ibid., June 15, 
1785 (p. 463 n.). 

[194] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings of Washington (ed. 
Sparks), IX. 501. 

2 See nos. 101, 175, 182, 183, 186, 192, ante, 195, 196, 203, post. 



August, 1785 183 

the genius and interest of the Southern States will be found to be opposed 
to granting- this power. I believe the eastern States, New York and 
Pennsylvania are exceedingly anxious for it; but I do not wonder at 
their anxiety to obtain a monopoly of the carrying trade of the union. 
What would be the consequence to the Southern States in particular, 
were foreign vessels to be prevented from exporting their products. They 
would for example, having only American vessels to carry off their com- 
modities of export, have fewer purchasers for them, hence their prices 
would be unavoidably lowered. They would also have less foreign goods 
imported, which would oblige the consumers to pay dearer for what they 
must buy. It would seem therefore to be good policy in the Southern 
States to encourage the number of buyers for what they have to sell, and 
the number of importers of those articles they must buy, till they become 
as well peopled as the Eastern States, when a naval defence will be easily 
established, or come of itself without the aid of restrictions. In the mean 
while however it may be said, that we ought to lay the foundation for a 
marine, and therefore ought to begin by discouraging foreign shipping 
and encouraging our own, for that the riches arising from buying what 
we want cheap and selling what we raise dear will avail us nothing with- 
out a navy to protect them. But is it true that a navy is at present neces- 
sary; and if necessary is it true that our people could go to the expence of 
supporting it ? Would it be right to add to our present burthens ; can we 
pay our present debts? Are we in a situation to enter into a war of 
imposts and prohibitions to force Great Britain or France to open to 
our shipping their West India possessions? Have we shipping enough 
to carry on our exports and imports? When Great Britain passed the 
navigation act she had in her harbours more than a sufficient number of 
vessels for her own trade. Great Britain too, was well peopled at that 
period and the capital of her traders equal to the exportation and purchase 
of her products. But our situation is different in both respects, and yet it 
is said we ought to force a navy — that we ought to prohibit British ships 
from exporting our products. 

Perhaps the point of true policy lays between forcing the growth of 
our shipping and doing nothing that may forward their increase. Per- 
haps the Southern States should give up something, and the other States 
should not ask every thing. Were Congress, under the latter idea to frame 
a navigation act, the operation of which would gradually and slowly tend 
to augment the seamen and shipping of the states without sensibly wound- 
ing in its progress the interests of any state, and recommend the same 
to their adoption, is it not highly probable in such a case that the good 
sense of the States would readily induce them to come into the measure. 
Upon this plan they would see what they were to give — that it could not 
hurt them, and that it might work a general benefit. They could repeal 
it too, if it was found to hurt them, which alone would be a great induce- 
ment with some states to pass it. 

You will excuse me for being thus particular ; but the subject is among 
the most interesting and that lead me to it, well knowing that although 



184 Continental Congress 

you have withdrawn yourself from all public employments, yet that there 
is nothing so near your heart as the public welfare. 8 

195. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

N. York. August 14th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the 28th of July I receiv'd by the last post. 2 .... By the 
first of Sepr. we expect the most important business will have been de- 
cided on ultimately, or postpon'd for the winter. The requisition will 
have pass'd, unless new difficulties arise. This subject hath been sifted 
thoroughly with the advances of the several States during the contest and 
their claims upon each other under them respectively. 8 we cannot but 
lament that the state of our accts. ag'nst the union is in such a situation 
as to leave us totally in the dark with respect to it. we have no documents 
and have therefore only conjecture to build our most important measures 
on. several men have been in pay for years in Richmond and yet have 
reason to believe they have done little, surely the state will pursue the 
most efficacious measures upon this head and no longer suffer her in- 
terests in that line to be neglected. Those states whose accts. are unsettled 
are not only subjected to great disadvantages in the requisition but an 
contaminated as avoiding it designedly for the purpose of evading the 
payment of what they owe to the other states, having fail'd as they pre- 
sume to advance their federal quota. The contrary of this will, we sup- 
pose appear upon a settlement, why then, say they, delay it? does it arise 
from our refusing any thing you ask to effect it, or the negligence of 
your government? The report upon the 9th of the articles of confederation 
will not I believe be finally determin'd untill the winter, it will however 
probably be taken up merely for the sake of investigation and to be com- 
mitted to the journals for publick inspection, you have 1 understand a 
copy of [it] and I wish much yr. sentiments on it. a navigation act by 
recommendation hath been propos'd in conversation and Debate but not 
submitted to the inspection and consideration of Congress, this is the 
other plan and sho'd not be adopted but in the ultimate decision, that it 
is improper the power sho'd rest in Congress : if this sho'd be the decision 
it might be well to collect better information from the merchants of each 
State than congress now possess on the subject, indeed with or without 
the power, this information sho'd be obtained or we may err in the 
If this report sho'd be adopted it gives a tie to the confederacy wh. it hath 
not at present nor can have without it. It gives the States something to 
act on, the means by which they may bring abt. certain ends — without it 
god knows what object they have before them, or how each State will 

8 See Washington's reply to this letter, Aug. 22 (Writings, cd. Sparks, IX. 121 ) ; 
also his letter to Grayson Aug. 22 (ibid., p. 124). 

[ 195] • Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings , I. 100; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, I. 448. 

2 Madison's letter of July 28 has not been found. 

8 The debates during the preceding two months had been chiefly upon questions 
relating to the policy to be adopted with regard to state advances and claims. Cf. nos. 156, 
173, 175, 183, ante, 203, 228, 236, post. 



August, 1785 185 

move, so as to move securely, with respect to foederal or State objects. 4 
a report revising the [instructions to our ministers forming commercial 
treaties] 5 changing the principle and substituting to that of the [right of] 
the [most favord nation] a simple bargain with each founded in the nature 
[of our intercourse with each] respectively, hath been twice before Con- 
gress and postpon'd. It investigates fully the impolicy of those form'd 
on that principle, since in the opinion of the committee they obtain 
nothing from the powers not having [possessions in] the [West Indies] 
wh. we may not obtain without them and embarrass us in any restric- 
tions we may lay on the [trade] of those who have, it being the only 
means by which we are to remove the restraints which now exist. This 
alternative seems to obtain the assent of Congress and, will most probably 
be acceded to if there will be a sufficient number of States in the ensuing 
week. 6 a [consulate convention] with [France] enter'd into under 
instructions of long standing (but from wh. the secry. of f. affrs. 
thinks there are substantial deviations) by [Dr. F. for ratification] 
universally disapprov'd will most probably be postpon'd for the present. 7 
I shall write you again before I sit out if any thing arises worthy com- 
munication. 8 

4 See no. 183, ante, and nos. 196, 203, post. 

5 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. In Monroe's Writings these 
ciphers are untranslated, and there are also a few errors of transcription. 

6 Cf. nos. 101, 156, 175, 182, 183, 104, ante, 196, 203, 209, post. See also the com- 
mittee report of June 2 (Journals). 

7 The whole sentence is awkward, but the meaning is clarified by one or two 
slight alterations : A consulate convention with France, entered into by Dr. Franklin 
under instructions of long standing .... ratification of which is universally disapproved, 
will most probably be postponed for the present. The instructions of " long standing " 
were those of Jan. 25, 1782, when Congress adopted a " plan of a convention respecting 
consular powers ", a plan which had its immediate origin in one submitted to Congress 
by Luzerne July 26, 1781 (Journals, July 27, 1781). The question of the powers of 
consuls and vice consuls had naturally arisen with the first appointment of consuls by 
Gerard, who was consul general as well as minister. The question was first raised by 
Massachusetts in February, 1779 (Journals, Mar. 30, 1779), the outcome of which was a 
memorial on the subject by Gerard June 23 following. See these Letters, vol. IV., 
p. 128 n. On the other hand, while the question of sending consuls to France and else- 
where appears to have received some consideration almost from the time of Gerard's 
arrival, it was not until Oct. 25, 1780, that a decision was reached to send a consul to 
France. On Nov. 4 William Palfrey was appointed but was lost at sea. See ibid., III., 
p. 415 n., V. 309, 460 n., 482 n., 488 n. Nearly a year later (Oct. 5, 1781) Thomas 
Barclay was appointed in Palfrey's stead. 

Luzerne's memorial of July 26 had been referred (July 28) to a committee of which 
Edmund Randolph was chairman, but it was not until Jan. 17, 1782, that the committee 
made a report on the subject, submitting a draft of a convention with France. Meanwhile, 
on Sept. 14, 1781, Congress adopted a resolution making provision for issuing exequaturs 
to vice consuls until a convention should be ratified. The committee's plan of a con- 
vention was, after some amendments, adopted Jan. 25, and on the following day Livingston 
transmitted the project to Franklin (Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr., V. 135). On Feb. 18 
he transmitted the resolution respecting it to the several states (ibid., p. 179). Franklin 
acknowledged Livingston's letter June 25, stating that in consultation with Barclay he 
would move to the completion of the convention (ibid., p. 510). Barclay however 
found objection to the convention as proposed, on the ground that it prohibited consuls 
from trading (Livingston to Franklin Jan. 6, 1783, ibid., VI. 198; Livingston to Congress 
Mar. at, 1783, ibid., p. 329; Journals, Jan. 2). On Jan. 6, 1783, after much discussion, 
the matter was "postponed" (see Madison's Notes, Journals, XXV. 846). On Dec. 25. 
1783, Franklin wrote to the President of Congress : " The treaty between this court and 
the United States for regulating the powers, privileges, etc., of consuls is at length com- 



186 Continental Congress 

196. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York August 15th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... [The report proposing to invest congress with the power to 
regulate commerce hath been twice before congress in committee of the 
whole.] It met with no opponant except [the president], 2 by this I do not 
mean that there were no others oppos'd to it, for the contrary is the case. 
They however said but little or rather committed their side of the question 
to his care. In favor of it there were but few speakers also. [The com- 
mittee came to no conclusion but desird leave to sit again.] A second plan 
hath been propos'd, [a navigation act digested here] and [recommended 
to the states], this hath not been presented but probably will be. One 
w'od expect in a [particular quarter of the union perfect concert in this 
business] yet this is not altogether the case. The 2d plan above alluded 

pleted, and is transcribing, in order to be signed. I hope to transmit a copy by the next 
packet" (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., VI. 742). But nothing further appears to have been 
learned concerning the convention until June, 1785. 

On May 6, 1784, because of an exigency that had arisen, Luzerne addressed a memorial 
to Congress on the subject (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., VI. 800), but it does not appear 
that Congress took any action on the matter. On Dec. 14 however, when Jay was on 
the point of taking charge of the department of foreign affairs, he introduced a resolution 
that the minister plenipotentiary at the court of France be desired, in the event that the 
consular convention had not been signed, to delay the signing until further instructions of 
Congress, and the resolution was adopted. See v<>|. VI I., no. 729, note 2, and Dipt. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1780., I. 95. Franklin replied Feb. 8, 1785, that the convention had 
already been signed in July preceding, and that the text of the convention had been 
transmitted at the time (ibid., p. 303). but that he was now sending another copy. It was 
this copy of the convention that reached Congress June 6. 1785. 

Shortly after Congress had settled down in New York a committee (Gerry, Monroe, 
Hardy, Williamson, and Johnson) was appointed (Jan. 17) to revise the proposed plan 
of a consular convention. On Mar. 14 the committee, which had not yet made its report, 
was renewed, with Monroe as chairman, but still had made no report when, in a letter of 
Apr. 18 respecting some consular appointments by Marbois, Jay once more brought the 
matter to the attention of Gonajreaa (see Dipt. Corr. U. S. A.. 1783-1780, I- 127-132, anil the 
Journals, Apr. 20, May 2. 11). At last on June 6 the convention, which had been signed 
by Vergennes and Franklin July 29, 1784, arrived and was referred to the secretary Ebc 
foreign affairs to report thereon. Jay made a preliminary report June 23 (Journals. 
June 24) : then, on July 6, he presented to Congress a detailed examination of the con- 
vention as signed, comparing it section by section with the plan originally proposed 
(Journals. Julv 6, pp. 500-515"). Some of the stipulations of the convention Jay found to 
be seriously objectionable, and the immediate outcome was that the report was referred 
back to the secretary for further report. Then began one of those characteristic delays 
and protracted discussions that led nowhere except into a morass of indecision. On 
Aug. 9 the secretary was instructed to report upon the number of consuls and vice 
consuls that were neceatary. and his report (Sept. 20) led to further debate through 
much of the autumn, including an effort to create an "ordinance respecting consuls". 
See the Journals, Aug. 9. Sept. 20, Oct. 7, 14. 24, j;. ~'8. 31. Nov. 25. 30, Dec. 1. 2: 
also nos. 203, 244, post. In April, 1786, Otto, the new chargi, again prodded Congress 
on the subject. See no. 379, post. 

8 Monroe was about to set out for a journey to the Ohio country. See his 
Writinqs. I. 94. 06, 112, and no. 196, post. 

[196] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 103; Bancroft. Formation 
of the Constitution, I. j : 

2 Those wonk pnrairi. and sentences which are here enclosed in square brackets 
are written in cipher. There is however no cipher for the word " conclnaipn " (evidently 
inadvertently omitted'), and the word "[tie] is of course an editorial insertion, 
alao the completion of the word " secret[arvl ", farther on. The editor of Monroe's 
Writings explains that in the reference to "the president" Monroe was alluding to the 



August, 1 785 187 

to takes its origin [with MacHenry. 3 The Eastern people] wish some- 
thing more lasting and will of course in the first instance not agree to it. 
they must therefore come in with that propos'd in [the report]. You will 
ask me why they hesitate? to be candid I believe it arises from the real 
magnitude of the subject, for I have the most confidential communica- 
tions with them and am satisfied they act ingenuously. [They fear the 
consequences] may possibly result from it. the longer it is delay'd the 
more certain is its passage thro [the several states] ultimately. Their 
minds will be better informed by evidences within their views of the 
necessity of committing the power to Congress, for the commerce of the 
union is daily declining, the merchants of this town own I am told not 
more than two ships. I wish much to hear from you upon this subject. 
I expect it will be brought on again shortly, if for the purpose only of 
committing it to the journals it may then be delay'd for some time untill 
we may obtain full information on it. the report changing the instruc- 
tions for forming commercial treaties will I believe be adopted, it changes 
the principle and puts an end to that of the right of the most favored 
nation. The policy of forming a treaty with powers not having posses- 
sions in the W. I. is doubted since from them we can obtain as much 
without as with a treaty, and such treaties whether upon that or any other 
principle in effecting the main object we have in view, the opening the 
islands by treaty with those who have them, may embarrass us. This is 
conceiv'd to be the only end wh. can be obtain'd upon principles of 
expedience to us by treaty of course that with Sweden etc. etc. unfor- 
tunate. Mr. Adams seems to suppose the principal object in his mission 
to the court of London was the relation of a treaty ; but the contrary was 
certainly the case ; it was merely to conciliate and prevent a variance wh. 
seemed to threaten at that time, he might however readily make this 
mistake under the present instructions. A treaty is not expected and I am 
satisfied the majority here wish all propositions on that head to cease at 
least for the present, and untill our restrictions on their commerce have 
effected a different disposition. 4 Mr. Jay is authorized to treat with Mr. 
Gardoqui upon the subjects arising between the two parties. He is to 
lay every proposition before congress before he enters into any engagement 
with him as yet we have heard nothing from him. 5 the consulate con- 
vention lately formed with France is universally disapproved. It was 
form'd under instructions but in the opinion of the secret [ary] of foreign 
affairs hath been deviated from. I have not had time to examine it 
attentively so cannot decide as to this fact. 6 I shall sit out on the first of 

chairman of the committee of the whole, Samuel Holten; it is evident however that he 
meant the President, Richard Henry Lee. Cf. nos. 186, 192, ante. 

s In his letter to Madison (no. 195, ante) Monroe speaks of this second plan, 
although he does not mention McHenry as its author. Cf. no. 194, ante. At this point 
Congress appears to have reached an impasse on the subject (see however the Journals, 
Oct. 10). In the beginning of 1786 the problem was again attacked. See nos. 308, 309, 
31S, post. 

4 Cf. no. 195, notes 3, 4, 6, ante. 

5 Cf. nos. 173, 175, 182, 183, 192, 195, ante, and no. 203, post. Jay's report (dated 
Aug. 15) is in the Journals, Aug. 16; the report of a committee thereon, offered Aug. 17, 
is in the Journals, Aug. 25. See further nos. 402-408, 425, 443, 457, 466, 467, post. 

6 See no. 195, note 7. ante. 

19 



188 Continental Congress 

Sepr. for the Indian treaty on the Ohio and return thence thro Virga., 
and provided I shall be continued in Congress, to this place. I shall how- 
ever attend the foederal court for the trial of the controversy between 
Massachusetts and New York in Novr. 10 that I doubt whether I shall 
reach this before Deer, or Jany. next. The requisition will pass I expect 
this week and most of the important business remaining in a train for 
decision or be postponed for the winter. I have however no expectation 
that Congress will adjourn for the present year. I intended to have given 
you something of domestic news but am inform'd the mail is just closing — 
by this however, do not suppose I have any thing worthy communication 
for the contrary is the case, I sho'd be fore'd to look about me to find 
out any thing you wo'd have patience to read. A. Lee is elected in the 
Bd. of treasury — we were under the necessity of having some one from 
the state and advocated his appointment. 7 .... 

197. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (John Dickinson). 1 

New York, 17th Aug. 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the Honor to transmit to your Excellency the Report of the 
Secretary for foreign Affairs on the subject of the Complaint of Mr. 
Thomas Shields which your Excellency was pleased to transmit to us. 

Previously to our laying this Complaint before Congress, we took 
occasion to communicate the same to Mr. Gardoqui in a private way. He 
assured us of his Desire to be Instrumental in correcting the abuse com- 
plained of, but that he could not interfere in the Business, unless it should 
come to him officially. We therefore conceived it to be our Duty to lay 
the Papers before Congress, who were pleased to refer them to the 
Secretary for foreign affairs to take order. 2 

198. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 18th Aug. 1785 
Sir, 

We have received your Excellency's letters under date of the 1st the 
nth the 18th and 28th of July, and of the [blank] of august, with the 

7 See nos. 101 (note 16), 170, 191, ante. Richard Butler, one of the Indian 
commissioners, wrote from " Coopst " [Cooperstown ? ] to Oliver Wolcott, a fellow- 
commissioner, Aug. 16: "I find Mr. Lee is taken from us which I think a loss. Should 
you come through N York it may be well to bring the Treaty between France and 
America — and some conclusion of Congress on the issuing of license for the Ind'n Trade " 
(Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, IV. 53). Wolcott had however already given 
in his resignation (Journals, July 25, 26). Samuel Holden Parsons was nominated for 
the place July 26 and elected Sept. 21. The secretary reported Sept. 22 the draft of a 
commission, which was agreed to. 

[197] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Charles Pettit and 
signed by Jackson and Pettit) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 715. 
2 See no. 174, ante. 

[198] 1 Mass. Arch.. Senate Files, no. 260 (in the writing of Holten and signed by 
Gerry, Holten, and King) ; Life of King, I. 59. 



August, 1/85 189 

enclosures they severally refer to : these dispatches have been disposed 
of conformably to the sense of the Legislature as communicated by your 
excellency, 2 except in the instance of the resolve recommendatory of a 
revision of the articles of confederation and perpetual union between the 
states; at the time we received these resolves, Congress had, and still 
have, under deliberation propositions to remedy the commercial embar- 
rassments experienced in many of the states : the prevailing opinion 
discovered in the progress of deliberation, gave us no cause to expect an 
adoption of the plan proposed by the Legislature in the resolves referred 
to; we ourselves considered the object and interest of these resolves as 
highly important. 3 We have delayed any communication with Congress 

2 The last-mentioned letter is dated Aug. 8 and concerns the affair of Captain 
Stanhope. The letter was laid before Congress Aug. 15, and the proceedings thereon, 
together with the correspondence, are in the Journals, Aug. 18. The proceedings and 
correspondence, including a letter from Jay to Adams Sept. 6, are also in Dipl. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 387-306, and elsewhere. See nos. 204, 205, post. 

The Senate adopted resolves June 15, concurred in by the House of Representatives 
June 18, requesting the governor to furnish the delegates in Congress with acts and 
resolves of the legislature, also to transmit to the executive authority of each of the 
states such acts and doings as the governor might judge proper, and to request the like 
of them (Resolves of the General Court .... Begun May 25, 1786, p. 18; N. C. State 
Recs., XVII. 508). Further resolves were adopted by the Senate June 23, concurred in 
by the House June 27 (ibid., p. 31, and p. 476, respectively), requesting the governor, 
first, to procure such of the laws and resolves of other states, as also such laws, decrees, 
and arrets of other governments as might affect the interest of the citizens of Massa- 
chusetts ; secondly, to have printed an abstract of such customs and duties as are demanded 
of American vessels in foreign ports ; and thirdly, " to expostulate with such of the 
United States as have passed imposts and excise Acts and other Laws for the regulation 
of trade that affect the commercial interest of the Citizens of this State, and to urge 
the propriety of their making such alterations and amendments as shall render them, 
not only conformable to the Spirit of the Confederation, but consistent with those prin- 
ciples of reciprocity, which in a national view ought ever to be adopted". On the same 
day (June 23) was passed an " Act for the Regulation of Navigation and Commerce " 
(Acts and Laws . ... of Massachusetts, May-July, 1785, pp. 289-291 \, and it was this 
act in particular that Governor Bowdoin proceeded to transmit to the several states. 
His circular letter to the states, July 28, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
ser., VI. 63 (cf. the letter to the Governor of Connecticut July 27, ibid.., p. 62), and in 
N. C. State Recs., XVII. 494. See further the Journals, Oct. 10; also nos. 264, 269, 296, 
Post; also Governor Henry to Bowdoin Aug. 2=;. in Henry. Patrick Henry. III. ,720, 
Bowdoin's reply, Oct. 18, ibid., p. 331, and Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, VI. 
76, and Bowdoin to John Adams Jan. 12, 1786, ibid., p. 84; cf. nos. 181, 191, ante. Con- 
cerning the preceding agitations in Boston over commercial problems see no. 117, note 4, 
ante. 

3 The Massachusetts resolves, withheld by the delegates, which proposed the 
calling of a convention of delegates of all the states to revise the Confederation, had 
been adopted July 1, at the suggestion of Governor Bowdoin in an address to the two 
houses May 31, and had been transmitted by the governor on the day of their adoption, 
to Congress, to the several states, and to the delegates. The letters of transmittal are 
in Acts and Resolves (reprint), 1784-1785, pp. 666-668. The message of May 31 is 
ibid., pp. 706-711, in Supplement to the Resolves of the General Court (original 
imprint), pp. 68-70, and in Boston Magazine, II. 2.-^6-2^8 (June, 1785). The resolves 
are conveniently found in Life of Rufus King, I. 58. The editor of the Life of King 
states that on an attested copy of Bowdoin's letter to the President of Congress which 
was sent to the delegates King made the following endorsement : 

" Resolutions of Mass. of July, 178s, for calling a federal convention to revise the 
Confederacy. These resolutions with the circular letters to the Governors of the several 
States were transmitted by Gov. Bowdoin to the Mass. Dels, in Congress, vis, Gerry, 
Holten and King, who doubting the expediency of the measure, suspended it till the next 
session of the Genl. Court, wrote to them (3rd of September) their reasons for their 
conduct, and the Genl. Court resolved that the same should be suspended until further 



190 Continental Congress 

upon this subject with an intention to state to your Excellency our 
sentiments upon the probable tendency and consequences of the measure 
should it be adopted by Congress, and acceded to by the States. We are 
sensible that our- duty points out a prompt and exact obedience to the 
acts and instructions of the Legislature, but if a case arises wherein we 
discover most clearly consequences so fatal, that had they been known, 
perhaps the measure adopted would not have been proposed, it may not 
be improper to delay a final execution untill we have the instructions of 
the Legislature after such pernicious consequences of the measure shall 
have been submitted to their examination. But this may be a questionable 
opinion, we will therefore ask the advice of the supreme executive con- 
cerning it ; and that they may truly know our situation, we will fully 
communicate our sentiments on the plan proposed for a revision of the 
Confederation. The business of Congress requires so great a portion 
of our time, that hitherto we have not been able to make this communi- 
cation, but it shall be transmitted to your excellency by an early post. 



199. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of Connecti* 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

Stratford 18th Augt. 1785. 
S'r, 

Your Excell'ys favr. of the 8th Instt. was forwarded to me here from 
N York having arrived there at a time when Congress was in recess for 
a few Days. 2 The Vote of Congress which occasioned the Request men- 
tioned by yr. Excell'y will be most effectually complyed with by trans- 
mitting copies of the New Statute Book. The purpose of the Vote was 
that Congress and the States respectively might be better informed than 
they at present appeared to be of the several Systems of Law and was 
Limited in the manner you see because in most of the States all the Laws 
previous to Septr. 1774 have been disanulled, and in few of them, if any, 
has there been so effectual a Revision of their laws as in this State, and 
it was tho't that the Laws passed since the connection with G. Britain 
was dissolved would give a tolerable Idea of the Jurisprudence of each 
State. The object is to be informed of the present state of the Laws in 
each State which with respect to Connecticut can only be known from 
the New Revised Law Book. One Copy only will be reserved by Congi 
and the remainder transmitted to the 12 other States in Exchange for 
which you will Receive Copies of the Laws of Mass'tts and other sister 
States. The Intention was also that all future Acts sho'd be continued to 
be Exchanged in like manner so that Congress and each particular State 
sho'd always be informed of the Laws Enacted and in force throughout 

notice" {ibid., p. 60). See also ibid., pp. 60-71 ; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
I. 108-109; and McMaster, History of the People of the United States, I. 258-259. Cf. 
nos. 205, 215, 267, post. 

[i99] x Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 104 (copy). 

2 On Tuesday, Aug. 9, Congress adjourned until Monday the 15th. 



August, 1785 191 

the Union, which it was conceived would probably be productive of much 
Harmony and Uniformity, as well as other beneficial Effects to the United 
States. 3 

By the desire of the Delegates of Massachusetts Bay I enclose yr. 
Ex'y Copy of the late Navigat'n Act of that State which as they said they 
were directed by their Legislat'r to transmit thro' their Delegates to the 
several States in Union with their wishes that this or something similar 
to it might be adopted by the other States. 4 

I am sorry to acquaint yr. Excell'y that I have been impatiently waiting 
here more than a fortnight for such supplies from the Treas'y as were 
necessary to enable me to return to N. Y. I wrote the Treas'r from 
thence that it would be necessary for me to receive a remittance from 
him before I could return and hoped I sho'd be detained here only three 
or four Days, but received a Letter from him two Days after my Arrival 
acquaint'g me that there was no money in the Treas'y but that I might 
depend upon the first that came in. Since which I have sent again to 
Hartford but received the same Answer. I am extremely chagrined at 
my situation as I know the most consequential Business of Congress is 
now unavoidably delayed for want of a fuller Representation and I can- 
not endure that Conn't especially being now an adjoining State to the 
residence of Congress sho'd be in any regard deficient or occasion any 
delay in the important affairs of the Nation. Could I have relieved 
myself by my own resources or particular Credit I sho'd have returned 
immediately but I have hitherto found it impossible there seeming to be 
no Money left in this part of the Country. I am extremely happy to find 
yr. Health is so happily restored. 

Augt. 19th. 

P. S. Since writing the above I received yr. Excell's Letter of the 
10th Instt. something similar to wh'h from the impatience I know Con- 
gress feel at the neglect of Representation I expected to have reed. 10 
Days ago. The sole reason of my Absence is as above mentioned. But 
I have the pleasure to acquaint yr. Excell'y that by the very obliging 
Interposition of the Hon'l Judges of the Supr. Court I this minute find 
that I shall probably obtain sufficient from Coll. Fitch of Norwalk to 
answer the present Excigence. Relying upon this I shall call upon him 
for that purpose the begining of the Week in my way to N York, and 
am with the greatest respect. 5 

3 The resolve of Congress to which Johnson refers was that of July 27, instructing 
the secretary of Congress to apply to the executives of the several states for thirteen 
copies of their legislative acts since the first of September, 1774. See no. 185, ante, and 
no. 276, post. 

4 See no. 198, note 3, ante. 

5 This postscript is written on the back of a letter from Governor Griswold to 
Johnson Aug. 10 (Letters to W. S. Johnson, no. 103). The Journals record that 
Connecticut was represented Aug. 25, which shows that Johnson attended that day. 
Beginning Aug. 23, 1785, and continuing to Oct. 12, 1787, Johnson kept a record of his 
attendance at Congress and at the Federal Convention, together with other brief 
memoranda, such as visits, dinners, expenses, etc., including usually as the first word 
of the entry a characterization of the weather. A copy of the diary, with the elimi- 
nation for the most part of such memoranda as appeared to lack significance, was 



192 Continental Congress 

200. William Samuel Johnson to William Judd. 1 

Stratford Augt. 19th 1785. 
D'r S'r, 

I receiv'd yr. favr. of the 30th July here where I have been this fort- 
night impatiently expecting those supplies from Hartford without which 
I cannot return to N York, and where I am sensible it is of much impor- 
tance I sho'd be, not so much for any particular service I can personally 
render as to make up such a representation as may enable Congress to 
proceed on business of Conseq[uenc]e which is now delay'd for want of 
a fuller Representation. 2 .... 

201. Abiel Foster to .' 

New York 20th August 1785. 
Sir, 

I received yours dated Providence July ninth, and agreeable to your 
desire have made enquiry respecting the pay of the Men who served on 
board Alliance Capt Barry. The Board of Treasury now perform the 
duties of the Agent of Marine and it is their business to pay the Men 
who have not received their wages. I have laid your Letter before them, 
and have been informed that they have not at present Money for the 
payment. When the state of the Treasury will permit they will make 

obtained by Professor Max Farrand through the courtesy of Mrs. S. E. Johnson 
Hudson of Stratford, Connecticut, and those parts which pertained to Johnson's at- 
tendance at Congress was by Professor Farrand's kindness furnished to the editor of 
these Letters. Accordingly exerpts from the diary, or notes drawn from entries in it. 
have been inserted in these pages. Under Aug. 26, for instance, the entry is merely " at 
Congress ", while those for Aug. 29 to Sept. 1 are, " Visits at Congress ". See no. 214, 
note 2, post. The diary covering the period of Johnson's attendance in the Federal Con- 
vention, June 1 -Sept. 18, is in Farrand, Records of the Federal Conivntioii, HI. 552-554. 
The Diary has since been deposited in the library of the Connecticut Historical So 

The following letter from Stephen Mix Mitchell to his colleagues, Johnson and Cooke, 
respecting the attendance of the Connecticut delegates, is apropos here : 

•' Wkthkrskikld Sepr. 6th, 
" Gentlemen, In May last, I had some Conversation with Mr. Sturgiss on the Subject of 
his attending Congress the ensuing winter if called upon ; when he intimated the incon- 
venience twould lay him under in his profession and strong wishes that his attendance 
during the winter season might be dispensed with. Mr. Treadwell also urged his want 
of health as a reason why he should decline serving early in the Year. 

" Mr. Sturgiss engaged or encoraged that he would write you, urging your Stay, and 
soliciting to know what your Intentions were on that head, having no Answer from 
Mr. Sturgiss and observing that heretofore Members have almost uniformly been called 
upon, when they least expected it and not prepared to leave their domestic Concerns : I 
am induced to desire you to inform whether it will suit your convenience to tarry, MM 
doubting that the great motive (the public Good") which induced you to comply with 
the wishes of your Constituents the last autumn, will impel you to continue at N'w York 
thro the winter, should your other Engagements not render it impossible: I may without 
flattery say (in my Apprehension) it will be painfull to the State, to hear that either 
of you are under the necessity of leaving Congress. Suffer me to remind you of one (among 
many) cogent reasons for your stay, which is, that but one Gentn. in the DdefMJOT* 
yourselves excepted has ever been in Congress." Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers. 

[200] l Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, Susquehannah Lands, no. 35 (reverse, copy). 
2 The remainder of the short letter pertains to the Susquehanna busim 
which Judd had been appointed agent. 

[aoi] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 



August, 1/85 193 

payment in New York, but are at present of the opinion, that it will not 
soon be in their power. If the Delegates from New Hampshire for the 
next year, should have an order they might perhaps obtain, and transmit 
it to the persons to whom it is due. 2 

202. The President of Congress to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

Philadelphia August 21st, 1785. 
Sir, 

The letter that you favored me with on the 18th instant reached me 
yesterday after the post had left the City, so that the papers enclosed for 
my signature must be detained until next post day, unless Doct'r Gardener 
should afford me an opportunity of more quickly conveying them. 2 With 
the returned papers, you will receive, also enclosed a letter from the 
honorable Mr. Rutledge, and one from Lt. Colo. Harmer, both which 
I received yesterday. 3 .... 

203. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York Augt. 21st. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have done very little since I wrote you last, the States have 
been so irregularly represented, that it has been impracticable to act upon 
any matter of consequence; the requisition is still before Congress, and 
I expect will pass as soon as a sufficient number of States are upon the 
floor: it rests however at present on principles which are not entirely 
advantageous to our State; although from a disposition which has lately 
appeared I think the State will be able to get better terms. I agree with 
you entirely as to the necessity of a requisition at any rate otherwise the 
public Creditors might be so clamorous, as to render the Governmt. in 
some degree odious. 2 

2 Cf. the Journals, Jan. 18, Feb. 24. 
[202] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 665; Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), II. 385. 

2 Taking leave for a few weeks for the benefit of his health (cf. nos. 207, 240, 
post), the President had written to the secretary Aug. 16: "If, during the time of my 
absence, any business occurs that requires my signature; be pleased to transmit such to 
me at Doct'r Shippens in Philadelphia from whence you will receive a speedy return " 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 661; Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 384). On 
Aug. 18 Thomson sent him for signature " two notifications of the appointment of 
Diederick Leertouwer Consul of their high Mightinesses of the States General of the 
United Netherlands, one for the State of Newhampshire, the other for Massachusetts " 
(Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 126). See the Journals, Aug. 17. The Dr. Gardner 
mentioned was evidently Joseph Gardner, delegate from Pennsylvania, who was absent 
from Congress at this time. 

8 The letter of John Rutledge was no doubt that of Aug. 1, declining the mission 
to the United Netherlands (see the Journals, Aug. 24). The letter of Lieut-Col. Josiah 
Harmar, dated Aug. 1, was also laid before Congress Aug. 24. 
[203] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See nos. 173 (note 2), 175, 182, 184, 191, 194, 196, ante, 228, 236, post. The 
passage omitted at the beginning of the letter relates to paper money in Virginia and 
in Pennsylvania. 



194 Continental Congress 

The Mint is still before Congress, and it is uncertain whether any thing 
will be done in it this year : 3 The Post Office is also under consideration, 
and I am apt to believe the following alteration will take effect : 

To transfer the transportation of the Mail to the Stages; and to oblige 
all Sea Captains to deliver in their letters to the Post Office before they 
are admitted to an entry. The first alteration will furnish three mails a 
week through our State, and with much more expedition. 

A Post to Canada from New York is talk'd of, also one from Alexan- 
dria to fort Pitt: 4 The change of the 9th article of the confederation 
hath been the subject of debate for two days, and I expect will be taken 
up shortly again ; there appears to be a variety of objections to the change ; 
and I imagine the Members will not even consent to a recommendation 
with't previous instructions from the legislatures. 5 

A commission has pass'd Congress to negotiate with Mr. Gardoqui, 
under the direction of Congress ; nothing has as yet transpired, neither 
can I form any idea of what will be the result. There has been no other 
information from Mr. Adams, except that he hath been received accord- 
ing to the established forms. Mr. Marbois has withdrawn the application 
for Lonchamp. 

A nephew of mine has been here and giv'n me an account of the Con- 
vention at Kentucki : 8 from which I conclude an application will be made 
to our legislature to grant them independance : this matter has been the 
subject of conversation here, and an opinion begins to prevail that a state 
has no right to dismember itself with't the previous consent of the U. S. T 
Indeed this doctrine appears to me to be founded on the nature of things 
and to require no comment to support it. Should our legislature take up 
this opinion I presume the negotiation will be carried on through Con- 
gress, when an admission into the confederation may be stipulated at the 
same time the actual dismembrement takes effect: — I do not know that 
it will be for the interest of our state to withhold independance from 
them although asked at an unreasonable time for themselves, yet it surely 
is a matter of consequence to her, that at the time they escape to be a pari 
of Virginia, they become a part of the foederal Union ; The different 

s Sec nos. 151, 172, 182, ante, 216. 217. 227. 315, post. 

4 See no. 151, note 4, ante, and no. 241, post. See further the Journals, 1786: 
Jan. 6, Feb. 25, Mar. 1, 29, June, 15, July 17, Aug. 7, 15, 16, 21, 24, Sept. 4, 20, 26, 
Oct. 23, 26. 

8 Cf. nos. 195, 196, ante. Among the numerous subjects which Congress had 
had under consideration was one which Grayson, it would appear, did not deem to be 
worthy of even casual mention. On Aug. 19 two related motions were offered, one by 
Gerry respecting titles and rank of the President and members of Congress, the other 
by Pinckney, partly with regard to rank, but also prescribing the wearing of official 
robes. The motions were assigned to a committee of whom Gerry was chairman, but 
no report appears to have been made by his committee. More than a year later, Sept. 6, 
1786, a new committee was appointed, and this committee brought in a report on Sept. 18 
following. 

• See nos. 14& 153, 192, ante, and no. 209, post ; also the letters of John Sevier 
(July 19), Arthur Campbell (July 26), and James Montgomery, William Edmiston, 
and Arthur Bowen (July 27) to Governor Henry, in Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 307-31 1. 
The journal of the Kentucky convention, which assembled at Danville Dec. 27, has 
recently been discovered by Professor Thomas P. Abernethy and published by him. with 
an introduction, in the Journal of Southern History, vol. I., pp. 67-78. 

7 Grayson added, then erased, " in Congress assembled ". 



August, 1/85 195 

States can have no other interest in this event than that of dismembering 
the State of Virga. of whose magnitude they are jealous : they are then 
gratified with a simple dismembrement with't admitting the new state into 
the Confederation; Will it not therefore be proper to make the dis- 
membrement and admission into the Union co-existent acts and mutually 
dependant on each other. There seems to be another reason why this 
mode should be preferred; the conditions for the security of property 
and other matters will be more likely to be observed, if the pacta conventa 
are tripartite, and the U. S. as one of the dramatis personae can be in- 
duced to guaranty them; indeed if the new State is to take upon itself 
the payment of any part of the public debt I should think it proper the 
U. S. should admit it to become debtor pro tanto, and the old one ex- 
onerated in the same proportion — These are thoughts at first view, and I 
do not doubt but ideas on this subject much more proper have suggested 
themselves to your mind. 

The foederal buildings at Trenton seems rather to lose than to gain 
ground : a third Commissioner is wanting without whom the other two 
are useless and a sufficient number of States has not yet been found to 
appoint him : I believe 30,000 dollars in the requisition for the construc- 
tion of these buildings will not stand: Some of the Eastern States have 
kick'd up about the money: If it was not for fear of the imputation of 
instability I would as soon as No. Carolina is represented move to adjourn 
to Philada. ; perhaps this is at present the properest place at least till we 
can see our way clearer to the Westward. 8 

Mr. Jay is directed to report the number of Consuls necessary and 
the places of destination : some gentlemen are of opinion we may have 
Consuls with't treaties. 9 Our friend Colo. Monroe sets out in a day or 
two for the Indian Treaty at the mouth of the Great Miami from thence 
he proceeds to Kentucki on some private business and so through the 
Wilderness to Virga. 

from yr. Affect, fr'd and most Obedt. Sevt. 

Willm. Grayson. 

N B. I imagine you have heard the Consular Convention with France 
is arrived, but not yet confirmed. 



204. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular.) Office of the Secretary of Congress, 

Augt. 22, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency an Act of Congress 
touching the disrespectful and indecent Conduct of Capt. Stanhope as 

* See no. 118, ante, cf. no. 241, post. 

9 See the Journals, Aug. 9, Sept. 20, no. 195, note 7, ante, and no. 244, post. 
[204] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 127; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 
507; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 499. 



196 Continental Congress 

stated in a Letter of the 8th from His Excellency, the governor of Massa- 
chusetts and manifested in a correspondence between his Excellency and 
the said captain. 2 

Although Congress have not thought it expedient to make this a public 
act, 8 they have nevertheless ordered a copy thereof together with the 
letters to be transmitted to the executives of the several States for their 
particular information. 

205. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

~. New York 23d August 1785. 

We had the Honor under the 18th Instant, to inform You generally 
that the Dispatches received from your Excellency, to that Date, were 
disposed of agreably to your Communications. 2 having a leisure Moment, 
which is not often the Case, We shall be more particular at this time in 
our Answer to your Excellency's Letters. 

We have delivered to Congress the Act of the Legislature for altering 
the 8th Article of the Confederation : their Resolve respecting Samuel 
Stearns : another Resolve authorizing Congress to appoint Commis- 
sioners, for running a boundary Line (therein described) between the 
State of Massachusetts and New York, the Delegates whereof have met 
on the Business but have not yet been able to agree on suitable persons 
for the purpose mentioned : a Copy of Governor Carltons Letter respecting 
the eastern Boundary of Massachusetts, a Report relative to which, being 
now on the Files of Congress, We shall call for, as soon as nine States, 
which rarely meet in Congress, shall again be represented. 8 

We have also delivered to each Delegation, the Act of Massachusetts 
for regulating foreign Commerce, and urged the Necessity of similar 
Measures, to be adopted by the Legislatures respectively.* .... 

2 Both the printed texts cited above have " the said Stanhope " instead of " the 
said captain". See the Journals, Aug. 18, Oct. 13; also no. 198, note 3, ante ; cf. no. 258, 
post. The Bowdoin- Stanhope correspondence is also in Pa. Arch., first scr., X. 500-506. 
Thomson transmitted the act to Governor Bowdoin Aug. 20 (Letter-Book, p. 127), 
making use of the language in the close of Jay's report. 

8 The Letter- Book copy has here an erased clause, " or to publish it in their daily 
journal ". 

[ 205] l Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 259 (in the writing of Gerry and signed by 
Gerry, Holten, and King). 

2 See no. 198, ante. 

8 The act respecting the eighth article of the Confederation was laid before Con- 
gress July 25, that concerning Samuel Stearns the same day, and that respecting the 
M.ivsachusetts-New York boundary Aug. 22. See nos. 16 (note 2), 11-'. 117, 1.28, mtU, 
-i'>. 271, 300, 315. post. A letter from Governor Bowdoin to Governor Clinton, July 18, 
with an act of Massachusetts June 22 respecting the boundary controversy between 
Massachusetts and New York is in Clinton Papers, VIII. 393, and in Mass. Hist. Soc., 
rtJMil, M'vcnth ser., VI. 58. See also the Journals, Sept. 29. The Carleton letter 
(from Thomas Carleton, governor of New Brunswick, to John Hancock, governor of 
Massachusetts, June SI, 1785) relating to the eastern boundary is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789. II. 432. See nos. 216, 231, 271, 460, post. 

* See nos. 191, 198, 199. ante. A long passage relating to a conference between 
the delegates and Governor Clinton respecting the sale by New York of lands claimed 
bv the two states is here omitted. 



August, 1/85 197 

Your Excellency is undoubtedly informed that Mr. Royal Flynt is 
proposed by the Board of Treasury, as a Commissioner to liquidate the 
Accounts of the U. States with Massachusetts. We have no Knowledge 
of his Character but what is derived from Letters to the Board from 
General Knox and Colonel Wadsworth : they speak of him in high Terms, 
as a person of Integrity, abilities and assiduity, and our Confidence in 
him is established by their opinion. We have communicated to the Board, 
" the Sentiments of the Committee for stating and methodizing the 
publick accounts " and also your Excellencys Desire, that the Commis- 
sioner above mentioned, should attend his Business in Boston untill the 
Accounts referred to are adjusted: and We have no Reason to doubt, 
that the Board will make the necessary arrangements, 5 

We observe that the hon'ble Legislature are concerned to find " that 
some States, in the Union have paid no part of the last requisitions of 
Congress, and that others have applied Monies raised for the Use of 
Congress to other purposes ". We felt a similar anxiety, and previous 
to the Receipt of your Excellency's Letters, when the requisition of the 
present year was under Consideration, endeavoured to have this Matter 
so conducted as to guard against those Evils. Should We succeed in our 
Measures, and a sufficient Number of states be collected to pass the Requi- 
sition, We flatter ourselves the Evils will be principally remedied. We 
have therefore tho't it best to defer a Remonstrance against the Departure 
of States from the Application made by Congress of Monies raised in 
pursuance of their Requisitions, lest the Harmony of Congress should be 
interrupted and the Requisition of this year be negatived. 6 

We shall most assuredly discharge our Duty in promoting public 
oeconomy and in satisfying public Creditors; as well as in preventing 
foreign Loans, to which unless indispensibly necessary, We have been 
ever averse. 

We are happy to find our opposition in the first Instance to a standing 
army, approved by the Legislature: being clearly of opinion, that should 
such a power rest in Congress, it would sooner or later terminate in the 
Subversion of our Liberties. 

Inclosed is the Copy of a Resolution of Congress for obtaining from 
the States such of their Acts as respect the united States. We think it 
necessary that the Communication of the Acts of Congress and of the 
Legislature of Massachusetts should be made by the supreme Executive 
and the Delegates of the State for their Information respectively; but this 
Communication will on the part of the Delegates be often impracticable, 
as their Engagements, without the Assistance of a Clerk, will not admit 
thereof. 7 

[P. S.] The Resolution of Congress of the 27th of July last, referred 
to in the above paragraph, having been transmitted by the Secretary, (as 
he informs us) is omitted on the present Occasion. 

6 See no. 172, note 3, ante. 

6 See nos. 173, 183, 203, ante, 228, 236, 263, post. 

7 See the Journals, July 27, no. 185, ante, and the postscript to this letter. 



198 Continental Congress 

206. Elbridge Gerry and Others to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York 23d August 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

We have the honor of addressing this by our worthy friend, the 
honorable Mr. Sayre, who was formerly Sheriff of London. 

The active part, which at the commencement of the revolution, he took 
in favor of America, is, we presume, too well known to you, to require a 
relation : and the loss he sustained, in consequence of his opposition to 
the british ministry, is not less a matter of general information. 

These considerations have induced his friends, in this quarter to 
express a wish that he should be employed in some public office under 
Congress, wherein he can render service to the United States, in a manner 
that shall be consistent with his honor, and their interest. 

It so happens, at this time, that there is no appointment of that descrip- 
tion, to which we can nominate him ; but there is an office, which he will 
probably accept, and the right of filling it, is vested by Congress, in 
yourself and his Excellency Mr. Adams : we mean the department for 
conducting the treaty with the Emperor of Morocco, and the other 
Barbary Powers. 

Should you be disposed to employ Mr. Sayre in this business : we think, 
his knowledge of mankind, his polite address, his commercial, and political 
accomplishments, and above all, his sense of honor, and integrity, cannot 
fail of insuring you as great a degree of success, as the qualities of any 
other person you can employ in that department. 2 

207. David Howell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

~. New York August 23, 1785. 

In pursuance of the instruction of the Hon. the General Assembly a 
motion has been made in Congress by your delegates for the settlement 
of the accounts of Mr. Thomas Green. 

As to any loss or derangement of accounts or vouchers the resolutions 
of June 3, 1784, seemed to your delegates to vest the Commissioners 
with every necessary power to enable them to do justice ; and these powers 
of Chancery are, by subsequent resolutions, expressly extended to the 
Commissioners of army accounts, and to the Commissioners for settling 
the accounts of the five great departments : The only necessary additional 
measure seemed to be that the Commissioners for the State should be 
authorized to settle Mr. Green's accounts which by the existing arrange- 
ments of Congress, ought to be settled by the Commissioner for the 
department under which the accounts arose. 

[306] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers (signed by Gerry, King, Hardy, Monroe, 
and Grayson). 

2 A similar letter was written the same day to John Adams. See Adams to 
Jefferson Oct. 2, 5, in Adams's Works, VIII. 316-318. 

[207] l K. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785, p. 80; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 533. 



August, 1785 199 

A resolution to this effect was obtained one day and repealed the next 
day as the journals will discover; and the motion of your delegates finally 
referred to the Board of War to report, and their report has not yet 
made its appearance. 2 

The settlement of accounts as well those existing betwixt the several 
States and the U. States, as those existing betwixt individuals and the 
U. States is an object of great extent and importance, and engages much 
of the attention of Congress. Individuals contribute to the public exi- 
gencies with great reluctance while they are not only kept out of the 
principal and even interest, due to them from the public, but cannot even 
obtain a settlement of their accounts : And an apprehension in each State 
almost in the Union that they are in advance compared with their Sister 
States retards, or prevents those exertions which are necessary to put 
them in capacity to send forward annually their Quota to the Common 
Treasury. 3 

To a settlement of accounts betwixt the several States and the U. States 
it ought to be remembered that a federal rule apportionment is indispens- 
able. It therefore becomes necessary for every State to decide whether 
they will adhere to the rule established in the eighth article of the Con- 
federation; or adopt the alteration recommended on the 18th day of 
April, 1 783.* 

It has been and still is my private opinion that the whole, instead of 
three-fifths of the Blacks ought to have been taken into the estimation. 
In that case the rule might have approached so nearly to justice as to 
have been admissible, especially as it has a superior facility in Execution : 
But whether it ought not even as it is to be adopted in preference to no 
rule, or the hazard of delay and embarrassment in all our pecuniary 
operations is a question of policy and which is, in my humble opinion, 
entitled to a very serious consideration. I am happy that I shall be readily 
pardoned for not giving my advice on this subject. 5 .... 

Another object of Mr. Adams' mission 6 which is of principal impor- 
tance is to obtain a commercial Treaty with the British nation founded 
on principles of reciprocal advantage. One great obstruction in his way, 
it is apprehended, will be the incompetence of the powers of Congress to 
make specific and effective Stipulation for reciprocating commercial ad- 
vantages with the other party. It seems to be the opinion even of Congress, 
or of a great majority thereof that they ought to be vested with power 
to regulate commerce generally. Many propositions and plans have been 
suggested. One is an alteration of the confederation so as to vest Con- 
gress with the power of regulating trade without limitation of time. 
Others propose a limitation of 25, 15, or 10 years. Others have proposed 

2 See no. 160, note 2, ante. The reference July 12 was not to the board of war 
but to the board of treasury, who reported Jan. 12, 1786. 

3 See no. 172, note 3, ante. 

4 See no. 208, post. 

5 In the passage following Howell further discusses the subject. 

6 In a preceding passage Howell had alluded briefly to Adams's reception, as 
also to the question of the western posts and the attitude of the Indians as reported by 
Lieut.-Col. Harmar. See the Journals, Aug. 15 (p. 626 n.), 17. 



200 Continental Congress 

that a navigation act be framed and laid before the Legislatures of the 
several States for their adoption for a term of years. Others there are, 
who are of opinion that we can go on very well in the present way. They 
say that the produce of the Southern States, being delivered from British 
monopoly and admitting to the ports the competition of all the World, 
fetches as good a price and frequently more and better pay than it did 
before the revolution. And they fear that the consequences of a naviga- 
tion act, or of power to regulate trade in the hands of Congress might 
eventually be throwing a monopoly of the carrying trade into the hands 
of a few States, who would set their own price also on the produce to be 
exported, whereby they apprehend a very great injury to the Southern 
planters. Amidst this division of Sentiments and clashing of interests 
little is to be expected from the deliberations of the present Congress on 
this Subject. The voice of the people must come forward and give birth 
to some System. 7 

Some days ago the President of Congress asked permission to make a 
tour in the country for the benefit of his health. He proposes to visit the 
Calybeate waters in Pennsylvania, and to return in two or three weeks. 
At present only seven states are represented in Congress. Letters have 
been lately written to the delinquent states, and a fuller house is expected 
soon.* 

It is about three weeks since my colleague has been confined to the 
house, and of course the State has not been represented. He is now 
happily recovering and expects to take his seat soon. 

Having been in hopes of returning before now I have made no applica- 
tion lately for money. I am now reduced to my last penny nay I have not 
enough to pay my debts here. I am, therefore, under the necessity of 
requesting that effectual measures may be taken by the State to forward 
me some cash by the first opportunity 



208. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of the Secretary of Congress, 

August 24th 1 
Sir, 

I beg leave to remind your Excellency that all the calls, which Congress 
have heretofore made on the States for money or supplies, have been on 
this express condition, that the sums or supplies assessed, should not be 
considered as the proportion of any State ; but that being paid or furnished, 
they should be placed to their respective credits, bearing an Interest of 

7 Cf. nos. 182, 183, 194-196, 203, ante. 

8 See no. 202, note 2, ante, and nos. 240, 250, post. 

[208] 1 Copied from the original (to Connecticut), then in possession of Mr. Stan. V, 
Henkels of Philadelphia; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5634; N. J. State Lib.; 
N. C. Hist. Comm.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 321 (copy to N. J.) ; 
Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 128; ibid., Force Trans., N. H. Recs., 
Council Corr., 1782-1788 (copy to N. H.) ; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 352; N. C. State Recs., 
XVII. 512. 



August, 1785 201 

6 pr. Cent pr. annum, until the quotas should be finally ascertained, and 
adjusted by the Congress of the United States, agreeably to the 8th of 
the Articles of Confederation. And if then it should appear that any 
State had been assessed more than its just quota, it should continue to 
receive interest on the surplus, and if less, it should be charged Interest 
on the deficiency, until by a future tax, such deficiency shall be properly 
adjusted. 

From the progress that is made in settling the accounts between the 
United States and individual States, and private creditors within the 
same, and the measures taken to hasten and facilitate the progress of such 
settlement, there is reason to hope, that this great work will soon be com- 
pleated. And as almost every State seems to think its advances, have 
exceeded its just proportion, it is therefore become necessary, and essential 
to the harmony of the Union, that Congress should be furnished with 
the means of settling the proportion to be borne by each State, as well 
of the general expences of the war, and the requisitions made since the 
conclusion thereof, as of the sums which may from time to time, be 
requisite for the common defence and general welfare. To this end, I 
beg leave to call your attention to sundry acts of Congress on this subject, 
which you will find enclosed, {viz), one passed the 20th Feby. 1782, 
which is founded on this consideration, that the States having been 
variously affected by the war, the rule of the Confederation strictly ad- 
hered to, might not produce that equal Justice, which is desireable in this 
important object. One of the 17th of Feby. 1783, which calls for a return 
of the quantity of land in each State, granted to, or surveyed for any 
person, the number of buildings thereon, distinguishing dwelling houses 
from other buildings, and the number of Inhabitants, distinguishing white 
from black. And one of the 18th of April 1783, recommending an 
alteration of the 8th of the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union, 
and the adoption of a new rule of ascertaining the quotas of the States. 
This is comprehended in the act, and is a part of the plan, at that time 
recommended to the States for restoring and supporting public credit, 
for obtaining permanent and adequate funds, to discharge the Interest 
and principal of the debt contracted, and for providing for the future 
exigencies of the Union. 

The necessity of a rule to apportion the common expence, and the 
difficulties, delays and expence in the way of obtaining that, pointed out 
by the Confederation, induced Congress to recommend this change, and 
the rather, as the number of Inhabitants, at least, of the white Inhabitants, 
is required for other purposes of the Confederation. Besides it was con- 
ceived, that this rule would do more Justice, and produce less discontents 
among the States, and although not altogether free from objections, 
that it was liable to fewer, than any other, that could be devised; and 
that therefore the application of it to ascertain the quotas of the State, 
would supercede the necessity, and save the expence and trouble of making 
a valuation of the Lands, with the buildings and improvements thereon. 

The favourable reception this recommendation has met with, induces 
a belief, that this alteration will be finally adopted. By examining the 



202 Continental Congress 

files in this office, I find that eight States have agreed to it, namely, Massa- 
chusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, Maryland, 
Virginia and North Carolina, and it is suggested that other States have 
adopted it, although the returns are not lodged in this Office. But if all 
the States had agreed to adopt it, still it would be necessary for them to 
proceed a step farther, and to make returns of their respective numbers, 
before Congress can apply the rule. I must therefore request that Your 
Excellency would be pleased to bring this subject again under the view 
of the Legislature of Your State, and earnestly recommend to them, 2 as 
they have already authorized their Delegates to subscribe and ratify the 
alteration recommended, to take speedy and effectual measures for num- 
bering the Inhabitants, and make a return thereof to Congress. 

With respect to the other part of the plan, contained in the Act of the 
1 8th of April, as it is not the immediate object of this letter, I shall only 
refer to the address which accompanied it, and which You will find 
enclosed, And beg leave to add this single observation, that every day's 
delay encreases the embarrassments of the union ; and experience evinces, 
how well Congress were founded in the opinion they gave on the 12th of 
Feby. 1783 — That the establishment of permanent and adequate funds 
on taxes or duties, which shall operate generally, and on the whole in 
just proportion throughout the United States, are indispensably necessary 
towards doing compleat Justice to the public Creditors, and for restoring 
public Credit." 

I will not at present detain You farther, than to request, that Your 
Excellency will be pleased to favour me with an answer, that I may be 
enabled to make report, and discharge the duty required by the enclosed 
Ordinance for regulating the Office of the Secretary of Congress. 8 

With the greatest respect I have the honor to be 

Your Excellency's Most Obidient and Most humble Servant 

Chas. Thomson 
His Excellency The Governor of Connecticut. 

209. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York August 25th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last nothing very material hath taken place here. I leave 
this merely to inform you of my departure hence for the Indian treaty 
on the Ohio wh. will be in abt. two hours. 2 The [two commercial propo- 

* At this point in the Letter-Book copy occurs the following addition underscored : 
" to come as soon as possible to a determination thereon — and if they have ". A note in 
the Letter-Book says, " To the 8 that have complied leave out the words underscored 
and substitute as for if". Connecticut being one of the eight, the first clause does not 
appear in this text, and the next clause reads " as they have ", instead of ami if they have. 

8 See King's motion Jan. 2, 1786, and the secretary's report, Jan. 4, of the status 
of the matter at that time. 

[aog] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 107; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, I. 451. 

8 Monroe doubtless took his departure before the meeting of Congress Aug. 25 ; 
nevertheless it is to be wondered at that he did not allude to the new instructions to 
Jay, apparently drawn by him, which were reported that day and adopted. 



August, 1785 203 

sitions] are as they were. 3 [Although congress will I believe not adjourn 
yet] I apprehend [the business of consequence] will be postpon'd for the 
present, perhaps till the winter. There is but [a thin representation of 
the States and of course] not the [ability if the inclination to act on 
these subjects]. I intend to take within my view the country lying 
between Lake Erie and the Ohio, the Ohio and the Potomac or James 
river, as it may suit me to return by the northern or southern part of 
the state. I pass through Lancaster and Carlisle, at the latter of which 
posts I join General Butler. The people of [Kentucky] intend, I hear, 
to petition the legislature for a [seperation]. I must confess I am one 
of those who doubt the policy of this measure (for I make no doubt it 
will be granted), either upon [state or federal principles]. 4 My opinion 
is we co'd so model our regulations as to accommodate our [government] 
to their convenience, and unquestionably the more we [diminish the state 
the less consequence she will have in the union.] On the part of [the 
union] or rather [the states] upon [the Atlantick] it is in my opinion 
their policy to keep a prevailing influence upon [the Ohio or to the west- 
ward.] What [unites us to them or rather they to us when the Mississippi 
shall be open] ? Removed at a distance from whatever may affect us 
beyond the water, [they will] necessarily be but little interested in what- 
ever respects [us] ; besides, they will outnumber [us in congress unless 
we] confine [their number as much as possible.] In my opinion, this 
matter should be well investigated before any measure is hastily adopted. 
I direct your letters to be forwarded to me to Fredericksburg. So soon as 
I shall return to the settled country, I shall advise you of it, ... . 



210. Samuel Hardy to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York 28th August 85. 
Dear Sir, 

I was honored with your Excellences favor by the last post. It affords 
me pleasure to hear that your health is amended. I very much hope that 
your excursion will be productive of benefit fully equal to your own 
expectations and the wishes of your friends. 

I have conferred with Colo. Grayson on the subject of procuring a 
loan from Holland for the purpose of discharging our public debt in 
Virga: He does not seem to approve the idea of incurring a foreign 
debt; but concurred heartily in the propriety of appointing Doctr. Lee 
to the Hague But however such a nommination may be favoured by the 
wishes and efforts of the Virga. Delegation I am induced to doubt of its 
success. On consulting Maryland I found they had it in contemplation 
to nominate Governor Paca and seem'd to have calculated on us, in 

3 Cf. nos. 183, 194, 196, ante. Words in square brackets are written in cipher. 

4 In a letter to Caleb Wallace Aug. 23 Madison set forth some ideas for a con- 
stitution for Kentucky. Writings, II. 166. See nos. 142, 146, 192, ante. 

[aiopHist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
20 



204 Continental Congress 

consequence of their union with us in the election of Mr. Lee to the Office 
he now holds. 2 

Rhode Island would join us with pleasure; but the Committee of 
qualifications are unanimous in the Opinion that the time of that Delega- 
tion has expired, and I expect daily there will be a vote of Congress to 
that effect. On the other States to the Eastward there is no dependance ; 
and on South Carolina and Georgia there is still less, as both those states 
are still sore on their late disappointment. In this situation I have thought 
it expedient to defer nominating Mr. Lee untill I discover a greater 
prospect of success. The moment I do, it will afford me pleasure to bring 
to the view of Congress the wishes of the state, and to pursue the most 
effectual Steps to accomplish them. 8 

Mr. Holten is elected Chairman ; 4 we go on nearly as we have done for 
some weeks past, sometimes with seven and never more than eight States 
on the floor. 

211. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress, 
Sir August 29th, 1785. 

On examining the files in this office I find that only five States, namely — 
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, Maryland, and Virginia have 
transmitted their laws, passed in pursuance of the recommendation of 
Congress of the 30th April 1784. It is suggested that other States have 
complied with the recommendation, though their laws have not been 
forwarded. I therefore take the liberty of enclosing the act, and request 
the favour of your Excellency to inform me what your Legislature have 
done, and if they have complied, that you would be pleased to transmit 
me a copy of their Act, that I may report the same to Congress. 2 

212. Rufus King to Thomas Ivers. 1 

«. New York 29th Augt. 17 

Mr. Osgood goes from this city tomorrow for Boston, and will return 
after a few weeks. I profit from this opportunity of requesting you to 

2 " Logrolling ", though no doubt frequently employed in the Continental Congress, 
is seldom avowed. Cf. Cyrus Griffin to Jefferson Oct. 6, 1778, vol. III., no. 561. Con- 
cerning the election of Arthur Lee to the board of treasury see nos. 101 (note 16), 196, 
ante. With regard to the election of a minister to the Hague see no. 191, note 2, ante. 
Rutledge's declination of the appointment was received Aug. 24, and on the same day 
Ralph Izard was nominated for that post by Jacob Read. 

• A committee report on the qualifications of the Rhode Island delegates is in 
the Journals, Sept. 6. See also ibid., Mar. 14, May 2, Aug. 8, 16, to. 

* Holten was elected chairman of Congress Aug. 17, in the absence of the President. 
See no. 202, note 2, ante. 

[an] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 135; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
X. 507; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 515. 

2 According to a notation in the Letter-Book this letter was addressed to the 
governors of Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 

[212] 1 Univ. of Chicago Lib. 



September, 1785 205 

oblige me in paying to Mr. Osgood the balance of a former warrant in my 
favor being 100 Dollars — together with the amount of a late warrant 
for 200LM'y [?]. 2 

I am induced to think that you will not decline this request if you have 
it within your power to comply ; it is almost improper to mention to you, 
that in the public employ, the support should be at the public expence, and 
not upon the private funds of the servant of the State. 

With great respect your obedient Servant 

Rufus King. 
Thos. Ivers Esqr. 



213. Jacob Read to James Madison. 1 

Chamber of Congress 
New York Monday 29th August 1785. 
Sir, 

.... Congress is thin and I am Sorry to say the States seem averse 
to do any Act that has in prospect to assert the dignity of the federal 
Government. We debate, make and hear long and often Spirited Speeches, 
but when the Moment arrives for a Vote We Adjourn and thus the feel- 
ings of Individuals and the Welfare of the Union is trifled with. We 
have not yet got through a requisition for the Expences of the Current 
year — our Treasury is exceedingly low. We have in short nothing Pleas- 
ing in prospect and if in a short time the States do not enable Congress 
to act with some Vigour and put the power of Compulsion into the hand 
of the Union I am free to Confess I think it almost time to give over the 
farce of what I cannot consider as an Efficient Government. We Want ! 
Greatly want ! ! the assistance of your abilities and experience in Congress. 
I would not be thought to derogate from the merits or abilities of the 
present delegation but one cannot help drawing Comparisons between 
the Language of 1783 and 1785 



214. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Hodgdon. 1 

N. York 2d Sept. 1785. 2 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have heard nothing further from Mr. Hillegas, at least, 
there has been no official Information to Congress, whilst I have been 
there touching the subject : it is difficult to know the Intention of Gentle- 
men respecting Elections, but Mr. pickering may be assured of the Sup- 
port of Massachusetts, should Mr. Hillegas resign. 3 .... 

2 Presumably lawful money. 
[213] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
I. 452. 

[214] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XL. 176. 

2 Under Sept. 2 William Samuel Johnson recorded in his Diary (see no. 199. 
note 5, ante), "Rainy No Congress", and under Sept. 3, "Do. Do." See the Journals. 

3 See no. 157, ante. 



206 Continental Congress 

215. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York, 3d September, 1785. 
Sir, 

We have deferred a Communication of the Reasons which urged Us 
to suspend the Delivery to Congress, of your Excellency's Letter to them 
for revising and altering the Confederation, and to each of the Execu- 
tives of the States on the same Subject ; in Expectation of an answer to 
the Letter which We had the Honour of addressing to you the 18th of 
August last : 2 but lest any Inconvenience should result from a longer 
Delay, We now beg Leave to suggest our Sentiments on the Subject : 

It may be necessary previously to observe, that many are of Opinion, 
the States have not yet had Experience sufficient to determine the Extent 
of powers vested in Congress by the Confederation; and therefore, that 
every Measure at this Time, proposing an Alteration, is premature, but 
admitting the Necessity, of immediately investing Congress with more 
commercial powers, it may be expedient to enquire, 

first. Whether good policy does not require, that those powers should 
be temporary? in determining this question, We are led to consider, the 
commercial Evils to be remedied : the Efficacy of temporary powers for 
this purpose: and the Disposition of the several States touching the 
Subject — the Evils principally consist, in the Impositions, Restrictions, 
and prohibitions, of foreign powers on our Commerce ; and the Embarrass- 
ments resulting from the commercial Regulations of our own States, 
how far temporary powers can remedy these Evils, perhaps Time and 
Experience, can only determine. Thus much may nevertheless be sug- 
gested, that as the several Treaties, which are now negotiating by our 
Commissioner in Europe, are not to exceed the Term of fifteen years ; 
if the commercial powers to be vested in Congress should be of a similar 
Duration, they may remedy the Evils for that Term : and at the Expir- 
ation thereof, a new commercial Epoch will commence, when the State! 
will have a more clear and comprehensive View of their commercial 
Interests, and of the best Means for promoting the same, whether by 
Treaties abroad, or by the Delegation and exercise of greater commercial 
Powers at Home. Whatever the Disposition of the States may be, it 
can only be known by their Acts: but the different Views which they 
have had of the Subject give Reason to suppose, that some Legislatures 
will think temporary commercial powers eligible under present Circum- 
stances; and should this be the Opinion of but one, an attempt immedi- 
ately to delegate perpetual commercial powers, must fail, and may prevent 
a delegation of temporary powers — for in politics as in private Life by 
aiming at too much, We oft-times accomplish nothing. 

secondly. If the States are unanimously disposed to increase the com- 
mercial powers of the Confederacy; should not the additional powers be 

[215] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9523 (in the writing of Elbridge Gerry) ; 
Life of King, I. 60. 

2 See nos. 108, 205, ante. 



September, 1785 207 

in the first Instance temporary; and the Adoption of them as part of the 
Confederation, depend on their beneficial Effects? — this is a question on 
which We propose not to venture a decided Opinion; but Experience 
teaches us, that in the Formation of Constitutions and Laws, the wisest 
Men have not been able to foresee the Evasions and Abuses, which in the 
Operation have resulted from vague Terms and Expressions; latent In- 
consistencies, artful Constructions, and from too full and unguarded a 
Delegation of powers. Whether the Subject of Commerce, and the Danger 
to which the States may be exposed by a Surrender to the Union of 
their commercial Authority, are so fully understood as to justify the 
Consideration of an immediate Alteration of the Confederation, is a 
Matter that the Legislatures alone are competent to determine, any of 
them, who may not be clear with respect to either of those points, will 
probably (as in the other Case) be in the first Instance in Favour of 
temporary commercial powers, and, if approved by Experience, of adopt- 
ing them as part of the Confederation, but should all the States be in 
Favour of an immediate Alteration of the Articles, will it not be expedient 
for them, previously to consider? that, however great the abuse of this 
Trust may hereafter be ; however grievous to a considerable part of the 
Union ; the powers, once delegated in the Confederation, cannot be re- 
voked without the unanimous Consent of the States — that this may be 
earnestly sought for, but never obtained — that the federal and State 
Constitutions, are the great Bulwarks of Liberty — that if they are subject, 
on trivial or even important Occasions, to be revised, and re-revised, 
altered and re-altered, they must cease to be considered as effectual and 
sacred Barriers; and like land Marks frequently changed, will afford no 
certain Rule for ascertaining the Boundaries, no criterion for distinguish- 
ing between the Rights of Government and those of the people, and 
therefore, that every Alteration of the Articles, should be so thoroughly 
understood and digested, as scarcely to admit the possibility of a Dis- 
position for a Reconsideration. 

Thirdly — Shall any Alteration, either temporary or perpetual be pro- 
posed in a Way, not expressly pointed out by the Confederation? — the 
thirteenth Article provides, " that the Articles of this Confederation 
shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union shall be per- 
petual; nor shall any Alteration at any Time hereafter be made in any 
of them : unless such Alteration be agreed to in a Congress of the united 
States and be afterwards confirmed by the Legislature of every State." 
here, no provision is made, for or against a Convention and therefore it 
may be said not to be inconsistent with this Article ; but as the proceedings 
of a Convention would not be binding on Congress, should the latter 
think themselves under the Necessity of rejecting the Report of the 
former, would not the States, after having thus incurred a considerable 
Expence be dissatisfied on the Occasion? would not the Members of the 
Convention, who, it must be supposed, would be Men of the first Abilities 
and Influence in the several States, be hurt, and opposed in this Instance 
to Congress? and would not parties, in the Legislatures and amongst 
the people, be the Consequence? — if so, may not an Apprehension of 



208 Continental Congress 

these Evils, have a Tendency to influence some Members of Congress 
to give up their Opinion respecting the Report, rather than to be con- 
sidered as pertinacious, and involved in contentions? And if such are the 
prospects of a Convention, will not Congress consider it as being con- 
trary to the Spirit of the Confederation? — indeed, We are doubtful, 
whether a Measure of this Kind, would not be viewed as manifesting 
a Want of Confidence in Congress, and on this Ground, meet their 
Disapprobation. 

Fourthly. If an Alteration, either temporary or perpetual, of the 
commercial powers of Congress, is to be considered by a Convention, shall 
the latter be authorized to revise the Confederation generally, or only for 
express purposes? — the great object of the Revolution, was the Establish- 
ment of good Government, and each of the States, in forming their own, 
as well as the federal Constitution, have adopted republican principles, 
notwithstanding this, plans have been artfully laid, and vigorously pur- 
sued, which had they been successful, We think would inevitably have 
changed our republican Governments, into baleful Aristocracies. Those 
plans are frustrated, but the same Spirit remains in their abettors : And 
the Institution of the Cincinnati, honourable and beneficent as the Views 
may have been of the Officers who compose it, We fear, if not totally 
abolished, will have the same fatal Tendency. What the Effect then may 
be, of calling a Convention to revise the Confederation generally, We 
leave with your Excellency and the honorable Legislature to determine. 
We are apprehensive and it is our Duty to declare it, that such a Measure 
would produce thro'out the Union, an Exertion of the Friends of an 
Aristocracy, to send Members who would promote a Change of Govern- 
ment : and We can form some Judgment of the plan, which such members 
would report to Congress. — but Should the Members be altogether re- 
publican, such have been the Declamations of designing Men against the 
Confederation generally: against the Rotation of Members, which per- 
haps is the best Check to Corruption And against the Mode of altering 
the Confederation by the unanimous Consent of the Legislatures, which 
effectually prevents Innovations in the Articles, by Intrigue or Surprise, 
that we think there is great Danger of a Report which would invest 
Congress with powers, that the honorable Legislature have not the most 
distant Intention to delegate, perhaps it may be said, this can produce 
no ill Effect; because Congress may correct the Report however excep- 
tionable, or if passed by them, any of the States may refuse to ratify 
it — true it is, that Congress, and the States have such powers, but would 
not such a Report, affect the Tranquility and weaken the Government of 
the Union? We have already considered the Operation of the Report as 
it would respect Congress; and if animosities and parties would naturally 
arise from their rejecting it, how much would these be increased, if the 
Report approved by Congress and some of the States, should be rejected 
by other States? would there not be Danger of a party Spirit's being thus 
more generally diffused and warmly Supported? — far distant We know 
it to be from the honorable Legislature of Massachusetts, to give up a 
single principle of Republicanism, but when a general Revision Shall 



September, 1/83 209 

have proceeded from their Motion, and a Report which to them may be 
highly offensive, shall have been confirmed by seven States in Congress, 
and ratified by several Legislatures, will not these be ready to charge 
Massachusetts with Inconsistency, in being the first to oppose a Measure, 
which the State will be said to have originated ? Massachusetts has great 
Weight, and is considered as one of the most republican States in the 
Union; and when it is known, that the Legislature have proposed a 
general Revision, there can be no Doubt, that they will be represented 
as being convinced of the Necessity of increasing generally, the powers of 
Congress, and the Opinion of the State will be urged with such Art, as 
to convince Numbers that the Articles of the Confederation are altogether 
exceptionable, thus, whilst Measures are taken to guard against the 
Evils arising from the Want in one or two particulars, of power in 
Congress, we are in great danger of incurring the other Extreme — 
" more power in Congress " has been the Cry from all quarters ; but 
especially of those whose Views, not being confined to a Government 
that will best promote the Happiness of the people, are extended to one 
that will afford lucrative Employments, civil and military, such a govern- 
ment is an Aristocracy, which would require a standing Army, and a 
numerous Train of pensioners and placemen to prop and support its 
exalted Administration, to recommend ones self to such an Administra- 
tion, would be to secure an Establishment for Life and at the same Time 
to provide for his posterity, these are pleasing prospects, which republican 
Governments do not afford, And it is not to be wondered at, that many 
persons of elevated Views and idle Habits in these States are desirous of 
the Change. We are for increasing the power of Congress, as far as it 
will promote the Happiness of the people; but at the same Time are 
clearly of Opinion that every Measure should be avoided which would 
strengthen the Hands of the Enemies to a free Government: And 
that an Administration of the present Confederation with all its Incon- 
veniences, is preferable to the Risque of general Dissentions and Ani- 
mosities, which may approach to Anarchy and prepare the Way to a 
ruinous System of Government. 

Having thus, from a Sense of the Duty We owe to the United States 
as well as to our Constituents, communicated to your excellency, our 
Sentiments on this important Subject; We request You to lay them before 
the honorable Legislature at their next Session, and to inform them, that 
their Measures for a general Revision of the Confederation, if confirmed 
shall be immediately communicated to Congress; that no Time will be 
lost by the Suspension, since the Requisition and other important Matters 
before Congress, would have prevented them from an early Attention to 
the propositions of Massachusetts; and that, if these had been approved 
by Congress, many of the Legislatures, being now adjourned, could not 
take the same into Consideration. 3 

8 See nos. 218, 229, 267, 269, post; also the remarks of Governor Bowdoin quoted 
in Life of King, I. 66, and the editorial comments, ibid., pp. 70-71. The latter comments 
are in particular a retort to criticisms by Bancroft {Formation of the Constitution, I. 197- 
199) and McMaster (Hist, of the People of U. S., I. 257-259). See also Life of Gerry, 
I. 495 et seq. 



210 Continental Congress 

We have the Honour to remain Sir, with the most perfect Respect 
Your Excellency's most obedt. and most humble Servts. 

E. Gerry 
S. Holtkn 
R. King 

216. Rufus King to John Lowell. 1 

New York 3d Sepr. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your obliging favor by Captain Walden, and he has done 
Mr. Gerry and myself the favor of conferring with him upon his project 
of introducing from Sweden coined copper to the amount of 100,000 £ 
Stg. We called upon Mr. Livingston of the Treasury board, Mr. Os- 
good being absent, and introduced Captain Walden to him — we were 
induced to this measure because a Letter written by Capt. Walden to 
Congress before he left Boston had been referred to the board, who 
have under their consideration the whole subject of a mint. 

From the conversation that passed, and the proposals of Capt. Walden 
as I understood them, I am induced to conclude that his plan is of that 
kind that would by no means advance the interest of the States — the 
profit on the coinage of copper is very considerable in Great Britain and 
in most other nations of Europe. 2 

The value of coppers or British Half pence is nearly thirty per cent 
above their intrinsic value; the difference between this excess and the 
price or value of the I^abor employed in the coinage, is a clear profit to 
the coiners — very little profit can be made on the coinage of silver, less 
upon that of Gold, but take the copper coinage in connection with that 
of Gold and silver, and the mint will support itself. 

The United States have Eighty Tons of copper in their magazines ; 
a company are here who brought with them from England the various 
machines and implements necessary for a coinage, and have rendered 
their services — a coinage in our own country is more pleasing than one 
abroad. 

Nevertheless Capt. Waldons proposals may be beneficial. 

Mr. Osgood will inform you fully of our situation relative to a federal 
court and other things. 

We have sent private Letters; and the Secretary has sent duplicaf 
and Triplicates, to Mr. Flemming and Mr. Sitgreaves, but no answer 
has come to hand. I hope we shall not be obliged to negotiate farther 
for Judges. Doct. Johnson prays you would oblige us with a statement 
of the claim, the points to be made in the cause etc. etc. Mr. Parsons had 
a brief, will he not send us a copy? I wish it may be in his power." 

[3I6] 1 Library of Congress, Papers of Rufus King. 
2 See no. 217, note 2, post. 

8 The allusion is to the judges chosen for the court to try the Massachusetts- 
New York controversy. See nos. 112, 117, 122, 128, 205, ante, 271, 300, 315, post. 



September, 1785 211 

217. Elbridge Gerry to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 5th Sepr. 1785. 
Sir, 

I was honored with your Excellency's Letter by Capt. Walden, and 
have received from him some general propositions respecting Copper half 
pence, which he offers to supply to the Amount of £100,000 sterling, 
previous to his arrival the Business of a Mint had been under the Con- 
sideration of a grand Committee, whose Report I inclose, with a Request 
that You will not impart it to any one, as it is not usual to send out 
such Documents untill they are passed by Congress, indeed the Board of 
Treasury have the Matter, pursuant to order of Congress, under Con- 
sideration, and Mr. Osgood being absent, and Mr. Lee not arrived, I 
introduced Mr. Walden to Mr. Levingston the only Member in the 
City and to Mr. Duer the Secretary, who will examine minutely into the 
propositions, point out what part of them is admissable, and what not, 
and give Mr. Walden an Opportunity of soon determining whether 
there is a prospect of his entering into such a Contract as Congress will 
probably consent to — I do not think there is such a prospect, because 
one Condition will perhaps be, that the Money shall be coined, in the 
U States, another in the Mint of the Confedaracy, a third that the 
Coiner shall be on Wages and the profits which are estimated at about 
30 per Ct. shall accrue to the publick. Capt. Walden thinks the profits 
will not exceed 28 per Ct., and supposing this to be the Case £22,000 
sterling, the advance on £78,000, would be no trifling Sum in the 
foederal Chest, at this Crisis of its Evacuation, however thus much 
Capt. Walden will be sure of, plain dealing and a preference if his 
Terms, amongst other proposals are entitled to it : or a polite Refusal, 
if they are not. 2 

218. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York 5th Sepr. 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

I am much obliged to you for your Favour of the 27th of Augt. in- 
closing the proceedings of the Legislature respecting the Institution of 
the Cincinnati. Congress have been ever tender of the Reputation of 
their military officers, and as far as I could collect the Sentiments of the 
Members at Annapolis, were in expectation of a voluntary Abolition of 
the Institution, it was then conceived, that all the officers might have been 

[2i7]!N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 4161. 

2 See no. 216, ante. A letter from Governor Bowdoin (July 16), introducing Capt. 
Frederick H. Walden and his plan for coinage was read in Congress July 28. Cf. nos. 
131, 172, 182 (note 5), 203. ante, 227, 315, post. Gerry's letter is endorsed: "Mr. 
Gerry's Letter abt. Capt. Walden's proposal for a coinage of copper \ pence." See further 
the Journals, Apr. 12, Oct. 10, 16, 1786. 

[218] 'N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (unbound). Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, I. 454. 



212 Continental Congress 

mistaken with Respect to its fatal Tendency, and that many certainly were ; 
but that seeing the Sense of their fellow Citizens and of some of the Legis- 
latures on the Subject, no Time would be lost in putting a period to so 
obnoxious a Measure. In this Congress have been mistaken, for so far 
have the Cincinnati Congress been from an Abolition, that in my Opinion, 
the plan is worse on the last Establishment than it was on the first, my 
reason is this, that in the first case it was too glaring to escape the Obser- 
vation of any one, and in the last it may lull some into a Security untill 
the Cincinnati Nobility have so established their Influence as to controul 
our republican Governments and then they may reassume their first Shape 
and bid Defiance to Opposition. I am not sure that Congress will take the 
Matter up; but sure I am, that if the Delegates of Massachusetts retain 
their Health and Seats in Congress, they will put on the Journals some 
propositions that will sound a foederal Alarm : being firmly persuaded 
this Institution must be abolished soon, or it will destroy our Liberties. 2 
We have by this post, given his Excell'y, Governor Bowdoin, our 
Reasons for suspending a Delivery of his Dispatches for a general Re- 
vision of the Confederation, which I presume he will officially communi- 
cate to his Council, and I wish to have your Sentiments on the Subject.* 

219. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York Sepr. 5th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have little news from Europe or elsewhere. Mr. Otto came 
over in the last packett as charge des affaires in the room of Mr. Marbois 
who goes to the West Indies. We are informed the Chevalier de la 
Luzerne is to be here shortly in quality of Minister. The damand of the 
body of Langchamp is withdrawn. 2 

For some time past there has been very few States on the floor, of 
course very little has been done 

220. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress 

September 6th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
two copies of the continuation of the Journals of Congress from the 
29th July to Augt. 25th, one for the Legislative and the other for the 
executive branch of Government. Although the Journal contains a full 
account of the representation in Congress, yet for the further information 

2 Adams's letter to Gerry Aug. 27 is not in his Writings. For Gerry's attitude 
toward the Cincinnati see vol. VII., pp. 516, 522, 526; cf. no. 184, ante, and no. 237, post. 
See also John Adams to Gerry Apr. 25, in Life of Gerry, I. 427. 
8 See no. 215, ante, and no. 229, post. 
[219] J Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

8 See no. 191, note 4, ante. Concerning the expectation that Luzerne was to return 
as minister see Jay to Jefferson June 15, Sept. 14, and Jefferson to Jay Aug. 14, Dipt. Corr. 
U. S\ A.. 17SS-1789. I. 614, 620, 624. 
[220] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 137 et seq. 



September, 1785 213 

of the Legislature, I enclose agreeably to the Act of the 17th of Augt. 
a list of the States represented and of those unrepresented, and of the 
Members who have appeared in Congress during the course of the last 
month. 2 

[To the letters to New Hampshire, Connecticut, Delaware, and Mary- 
land the following passage was added :] 

On this occasion, I beg leave to submit to the consideration of the 
Legislature two inconveniences which necessarily result from a State 
being represented by only two members. 1. by the sickness or casual 
absence of one of the members, the State is unrepresented and, 2ly, by 
a division of sentiment the State loses its vote. 3 

[The letter to New Jersey contained the following addition :] 

By this the Legislature will see, that the State still continues to be 
unrepresented. A Voice in the foederal Council having been earnestly 
contended for, and considered by every State in the Union essential to 
its Sovereignty, I hope your Legislature will adopt effectual measures to 
avail itself of this right. 4 

221. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

Sept. 6, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have reed, and communicated to Congress, the letter you did me the 
honor to write the 22d Augt. together with the thirteen copies of the 
laws which you was pleased to forward under the care of Mr. Dowse. I 
shall not fail to deliver, agreeably to the Act of the 27th July, one copy of 
the laws to the Delegates of each State for the use of the Legislature 
thereof, reserving one for the use of Congress. 2 .... 

222. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(William Greene). 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress 

Sept. 6th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have reed, the letter You did me the honor to write on the 24th 
Augt. 2 .... By this the Legislature will see, that tho the State has 
two members in Town, yet by the indisposition of one of them, it has 

2 This passage alone constituted the letter to New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, 
South Carolina, and Georgia (Letter-Book, p. 137), and was incorporated in each of 
the letters of this date, but beginning " I have now the honor," etc. 

3 Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 138. 

4 Ibid., p. 143. For the letters to Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and North Caro- 
lina see nos. 221, 222, 223, post. 

[221] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book p. 139. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 5 (p. 679 n.). The remainder of the letter is the 
passage common to all the letters of this date. See no. 220, note 2, ante. 
[222] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 140. 

2 For the omitted passage see no. 220, ante. The governor's letter is dated Aug. 29. 






214 Continental Congress 

not been represented since the 3d of Augt. u Public oeconomy " it must 
be granted, " is an object of great importance " and highly commendable 
in every Government, and especially in young republican States — but 
there are expences so essentially necessary, that a State cannot avoid 
them, without a sacrifice of its honor and dignity; such expences ought 
to be considered as consistent with the greatest oeconomy. A voice in 
the foederal Council has always been considered by every State in the 
Union as essential to its Sovereignty. This cannot well be secured by a 
representation of two members. For by the indisposition or casual 
absence of either of them, the State is unrepresented, and by their differ- 
ing in opinion it loses its Vote. These considerations will, I hope, have 
due weight with the Legislature, and induce them to comply with the 
earnest recommendation of Congress, and support the expense of a repre- 
sentation by three members at least. 

223. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress 

Sept. 6th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have received the letters you did me the honor to write on the 20th 
and 23d July and on the 4th of August. 2 

. . . ." Your Excellency will perceive that your State continues to be 
unrepresented. When I consider of what importance it is to the Union 
as well as to each individual State to have a full and compleat representa- 
tion in Congress, I cannot but flatter myself that You will use your best 
endeavors to press the attendance of the members from your State, and 
here I would observe that great inconvenience arises from a bare repre- 
sentation by two members; for in case of the indisposition or casual 
absence of either of them, the State is unrepresented, and in case of a 
difference in Opinion between them it loses its Vote. 

[aaa] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 144; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 
520. 

2 See nos. 138, 144, 148, ante, and no. 249, note 2, tost. Caswell's letter of Aug. 4, 
read in Congress Sept. 5, is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 499. See also his letters of 
Aug. 23, 30 {ibid., pp. 509, 516) ; also Caswell to Charles Johnson and to Timothy 
Bloodworth Sept. 26 (ibid., pp. 522, 523). Johnson replied to Caswell Sept. 29: "Several 
causes unfortunately concur to prevent my attending there at the time required; but 
however inconvenient it may be to me, I shall if requisite attend the last six months of 
the ensuing year, provided I am supplied with Specie to enable me to proceed" (ibid.. 
P- 533)- Bloodworth replied Oct. 11 : "The Delegates are to attend in rotation as they 
stand in number on the poll according to this regulation [resolve of the legislature]. If] 
attendance will not be required until Spring; as Mr. Blount. Mr. Sitgreaves and Mr. 

Johnston were first in numbers If it be your desire that I should give immediate 

attendance. I shall be under the necessity to request warrants on the holders of public 
Money for tbe amount of wages during the time of my attendance being at present quite 
unprepared to support myself " (ibid., p. 540). See further Caswell to the general assembly 
Nov. 21 (ibid., p. 269). 

8 For the omitted passage of this letter see no. 220. ante. The schedule of repre- 
sentation for the month of August is not found in N. C. State Recs., but as derived from 
N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1152, it is printed in the " List of Members." ante. 



September, 1785 215 

224. The Secretary of Congress to the Board of Treasury. 1 

The Secretary of Congress presents his Compliments to the Board of 
Treasury and requests the favour of them to cause enquiry to be made 
in the Marine Office and inform him whether in the latter end of the 
year 1782 there was any frigate or vessel of War belonging to the united 
States commanded by a Captain Gregory, which was Captured by the 
Mediator Capt. Luteral. 

The Secretary wants this information that he may be enabled to report 
on a petition of a Monsieur Barre who sets forth that he was an officer 
on board the american Vessel. 2 

Septem'r 9th, 1785. 



225. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

Secretary's Office of Congress 

September 10th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that the Letter of the 30th of March 
1784 from His Excellency John Hancock Governor of the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts enclosing the resolves of both houses of the Legisla- 
ture of that Commonwealth and a Copy of the petition of Ezra Badlam 
late a Lieut. Col. of the 8th Massachusetts Regiment in the service of the 
United States was duly received and communicated to Congress. After 
full consideration had on the Subject I have it in command to inform your 
Excellency " that as it would be in itself highly improper so Congress 

[224] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 146. 

2 A report, by a committee of which Jay was chairman, on a memorial of Barre 
asking for promotion in the navy, is in the Journals under Dec. 16, 1784, and postponed. 
A second petition, accompanying a letter dated June 29, 1785, was presented by Secre- 
tary Jay Sept. 2 and was referred to the secretary of Congress, who reported Sept. 13. 
On Oct. 6 the latter report was approved and referred to the secretary for foreign 
affairs to take order. See the Journals (1785), pp. 680 n., 700, 809 n. See further no. 245, 
post. The first memorial, which is undated, gives a somewhat detailed account of Barre's 
service and his capture by the British vessel, the Mediator, under the command of 
Captain James Luttrell. It is endorsed: " Mem'l of lieut. Barre read 13 Deer. 1784 
Referred to Mr. Jay, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Ellery" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 59, vol. IV., 
ff. 405-408). The memorial which accompanied the letter of June 29. though briefer, 
contained some additional details (ibid., ff. 395-402). In that letter he mentions that the 
first memorial was presented to Congress by Lafayette " the last time he was at Trenton ". 
With the second memorial was a letter of Lafayette, Apr. 18, 1785. Lafayette's letter, 
that of Barre, and the earlier memorial, together with letters from Jay to Lafayette 
Sept. 16 and Oct. 21 and a letter from Joseph Hardy to Secretary Thomson Sept. 13, 
are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, L 305-310. Hardy's letter, which is in reply to 
this letter of Thomson, points out that the vessel on which Barre and Stephen Gregory 
were serving at the time of their capture was not an American but a privately armed 
French vessel. Hardy further mentions that an account of the engagement, in a 
letter from Captain Luttrell to the Admiralty, was published in the Philadelphia papers 
in the beginning of 1783. There is a brief account of the affair referred to by Barre in 
the sketch of James Luttrell (i75i?-i788) in Dictionary of National Biography. 

[225] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 147; Mass. Arch., Senate 
Files, no. 281. 



216 Continental Congress 

cannot without opening a door to endless applications take any cognizance 
of Mr. Ezra Badlam's case nor grant him the relief he prays in his 
petition ["]." 

226. The President of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs. 1 

~. Philadelphia September nth 1785. 

I had the honor of receiving this morning your favor of the fourth 
instant concerning the letter from Count de Florida Blanca to the Presi- 
dent of Congress, which was delivered to me by Mr. Gardoque. Having 
considered that letter as a public one, I delivered it to Congress, and it 
now remains with their Secretary, if he has not sent it to your office. 
I do not precisely remember the contents of the letter, and viewing it in 
the light of a public one, I have two difficulties, which I pray your 
assistance to remove. As a public letter, it would seem that the sentiments 
in answer should be dictated by Congress. As a private one, I should 
know exactly its contents which I do not. I shall be very happy to have 
your sentiments on this occasion after you have seen the letter; and I 
will readily pursue that course which your better knowledge of such 
business shall point out to me. 2 .... 

22J. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

-\ M , r . New York 12th Scpr. 178s. 

My dear Sir, v ' J 

.... We have done very little in the present Congress. T1k- Want 
a full Representation has retarded all and prevented an Adoption of the 

2 Governor Hancock's letter was laid before Congress Apr. 16, 1784, and referred 
to a committee, who reported May 11 following (see the Journals for 1784, p. 244 n.). On 
May 17 (Hancock's letter is there given the date Mar. 13) the report was included among 
those referred to the Committee of the States "to take order", and on Tune i i; 
again included in such a list. The Despatch Book (no. 185, vol. III., p. 08) records the 
receipt of Hancock's letter but not the disposition of it. Hancock's letter states that 
Badlam had been dismissed from his regiment Aug. I, 1782. by the sentence of a court- 
martial, but, since the petitioner had been " chargeable in no other Instance of failure 
in Duty but conducted as we apprehend as a brave and deserving officer ", the legislature, 
" from a consideration of his general Character, his past Service and acknowledged merit, 
and from a Persuasion that the Petitioner would be able to produce such new Testimonials 
in his favor as would claim the Attention of Congress ", had conceived it their dul 
lay the petition before Congress and earnestly to request " that Congress would take his 
Case into their wise consideration, give him an Opportunity to state his difficulties and 
grant him such relief as in their Wisdom shall seem best". Papers Coot Cong., DO. 65, 
vol. II., f. 243. There is no record in the Journals of action on the case at this time. 

[226] : Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. Xl\\. f. 653; Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), II. 385. 

2 Jay's inquiry respecting the letter of Floridablanca to the President of Congress 
has not been found, neither has anv reply to this letter of the President. On Oct. 6 how 
Jay reported a suitable reply to Floridablanca, and the President used the suggested letter 
verbatim (President's Letter-Book. p. 322; Letters of Richmond Henry Lee, ed. Ballagh, 

II. 386). Floridablanca's letter dated Oct. 8, 1784 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783 

III. 139), was doubtless presented by Gardoqui upon his first call upon the President. 
If President Lee actually delivered the letter to the secretary of Congress at the time 
he must have obtained it again, for the letter now reposes among the Lee Papers in the 
American Philosophical Society. 

[227]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers ; .V. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., XLIX. 434. 



September, 1785 217 

most important foederal Measures. The Requisition labours exceedingly 
and I am apprehensive of an Adjournment without compleating it. Con- 
gress appear to be in earnest respecting a Mint, which the Board of 
Treasury have under Consideration. They are to digest the several plans 
and reduce them to a System. 2 

Mr. Jay is conducting the Negotiation with Mr. Gardoqui, the Spanish 
Encargado de Negotios. Western posts in statu quo. General Howe is 
added to the Indian Commission and the Treaty is soon to be held : Colo. 
Monroe left us, to attend it on private Considerations, in short both 
Congress and the States seem to lie on their Oars, and this political Calm 
will soon produce I hope an Exertion that will be worthy of both. Con- 
gress have adopted the plan of conveying by the Stages, the Mail from 
N Hamshire to Georgia and from this City to Albany. 3 Inclosed is a 
paper containing the Correspondence between Governor Bowdoin and 
Capt Stanhope, who commanded a british Frigate, it is not correct, but 
substantially the same. Congress have taken [the] Matter up and directed 
Mr. Adams to lay it before the King of G Britain. 4 

228. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York 16th Sepr. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The requisition is now in the last stage : it is formed on prin- 
ciples to suit only the Eastern and some of the middle States; There 
seems also to be a radical unwillingness to allow us for our assumptions, 
although the debt was created for Continental uses; and a proposition 
(wherein the interest was dropped for the present) has been negatived 
by a considerable majority: The Delegation is strongly impressed with 
the necessity of supporting public credit; they notwithstanding as well 
as the delegates of some other States, hesitate to pass the requisition in 
it's present form: They could wish it was made conformable to the 
different interests of the Union; and that certain principles might be 
adopted to facilitate the settlement of the general account : With respect 
to myself I never admired the idea of facilities : The word implies a pay- 
ment less than the thing itself, an inundation of a kind of paper money is 
also to be feared: but for the sake of peace I have been willing to con- 
sent as far as one third which is more than the Southern States can ever 
derive any advantage from. 2 

We have lately received a letter from the Governor inclosing one from 
Solicitor Wood furnishing a melancholy picture of the situation of the 
public accounts. The Continental Comm'r objects to every thing, says 

2 See nos. 182, 203, 217, ante. 

s See the Journals, July 12, 15, 18, Sept. 7. 

4 See nos. 198, 204, ante. 
[228] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 On Aug. 17 Congress was practically estopped from further proceedings on 
the requisition because of a dearth of representation. The subject was resumed Sept. 8. 
See further the Journals, Sept. 13, 15, 16, 23, 24, 26, 27, and nos. 22S-227, 239-243, 249, 
265, 280, post; see also nos. 173, 182, 191, 195, 203, 205, ante. 



218 Continental Congress 

he can't proceed with't fresh instructions and I fear it is not in our power 
to obtain such principles as will enable us 'to bring forward our Accounts. 
There is also a heavy party here for obliging the States to settle by a 
particular day, or to pay interest to those who do : 8 

I every day discover more and more the impropriety of remaining 
longer at this place; It is clear to me that it has an undue influence on 
our proceedings; Some of the Southern States begin at length to per- 
ceive this, and I hope it will not be long before the whole will view it in 
the same light 



229. Rufus King to Nathan Dane. 1 

New York 17th Sep. 1785. 
M v dear Sir, 

You are sensible that I have been too intimately acquainted with your 
political industry, and information, not to be well satisfied with your 
appointment to Congress — you must therefore accept my cordial con- 
gratulations with full belief of my sincerity. I pray you to re-examine 
the motives of the Legislature in recommending to Congress, to propose 
to the several States a convention of Delegates for the express purpose 
of a general revision of the confederation, and to communicate to me the 
result of such investigation. 

It is true, that additional commercial powers vested in Congress, under 
proper restrictions, and for a limited Time, is an object to be greatly 
desired ; but it is, and I believe will continue to be, the reflected opinion 
of many, of the most republican, and best informed men, in this country 
that such delegation of power should be for a limited Time, if the mea- 
sure upon experiment is found to be good, it may then be incorporated 
with, and become a part of the Confederation. The commercial Treaties 
formed, and forming, between the states, and the powers of Europe, arc- 
limited to the Term of fifteen years — the expiration of that Term will 
give a new commercial epoch, a delegation of powers to congress for that 
term would be therefore highly proper, if the confederation is generally 
submitted to a revision, I foresee many and important Difficulties — the 
report will certainly be a confederation less republican than the present 
one. The large states when the present confederation was adopted, 
objected to the admission of the smaller ones upon equal rights with 
themselves. The surrounding Dangers at that period, induced these States 
to give up their objections, and the small states came in with rights equal 
to the large ones. But at this time, was the question again opened to 
decision, the same objections would be made, the real inconvenience ex- 
perienced, and the increasing principals of aristocracy, would strengthen 
them ; and I think we should by the measure be thrown into total dissen- 
sion. These, and many other objections, which occured to the Massachu- 

8 Governor Henry's letter to the delegates, Aug. 12, is in Henry, Patrick Henry, 
III. 314. See no. 262, post. 
\22gy Library of Congress, Personal. Dane. 



September, 1/85 219 

setts Delegates, have been stated in a letter to Mr. Bowdoin, with the 
request that he would communicate them to the Legislature. 2 

I wish you to examine that Letter, if the observations there made, are 
conformable to your own opinion. I am confident you will join in the 
sentiments of the Delegation; if not, be obliging enough to state the 
reasons which overbalance them. 

I have not yet heard who of the Delegates appointed for the next 
congress have accepted — will you inform me? I hope and wish that 
you will not decline, if the Delegates are such, as I think I can serve with 
in peace and friendship, I will continue another year — other wise if men 
of Different Politicks from those which you and I should certainly 
agree in. 

230. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York Sept. 18th 1785. 
Sir, 

I do myself the Hon'r to enclose the copy of a resolution of Congress 
in consequence of your delegates requesting a loan of Cannon etc. agre- 
able to your directions to them — as soon as the Secy, at War reports 
thereon which we daily expect, we shall Renew our motion and inform 
you of its effect. 2 

Congress have no dependence on a commercial treaty being concluded 
with G. Britain, we have evidence to the contrary. I am not at liberty to 
say from whom — But useing the expression of our informant, we must 
regulate trade in such a manner as to make it the intrest of Foreign 
nations to propose reciprocal measures, at present that power is delegated 
to Congress but by a few states. 3 Doctr. Franklin arrived at Philadelphia 
(in Health) on Wednesday, expect him in this City very soon. 4 

2 The letter of Sept. 3, no. 215, ante. Cf. nos. 198, 205, 218, ante, 230, 267, post. 
Dane's reply, Oct. 8, is in Life of King, I. 67. 

[230] 1 N. H. Arch., State Papers, Farmer Coll., X. 147; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., N. H. Records, Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 The resolution referred to was probably the order to the secretary at war Sept 6. 
A motion of the New Hampshire delegates Oct. 4, for the loan of sixteen pieces of brass 
field artillery and eight ammunition wagons, was referred to a committee who reported 
adversely Oct. 5, stating the reasons. On Nov. 2 the delegates renewed their motion, 
although for only half the items first requested. That also was negatived and the com- 
mittee report adopted. Cf. nos. 329, 364, post. 

3 See nos. 101, 173, 195, 196, 229, ante, 275, 280, post. Long doubtless alludes to 
Adams's letter of June 26 (Works, VIII. 273; Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 385), 
which was probably received about this time (it was referred to a committee Sept. 22). 
In this letter Adams strongly recommends the bestowal upon Congress of a power to 
control commerce, at least for a limited term of years, and in subsequent letters he 
reiterates the idea. 

4 Franklin arrived in Philadelphia Wednesday Sept. 14. See Jay to Franklin Oct. 
4 (ibid., p. 169). A letter from Jay to William Temple Franklin Sept. 19, expressing his 
pleasure on Dr. Franklin's arrival, is in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, CVI. 203. 
In a letter to General Greene Sept. 21, chiefly about business matters, Charles Pettit wrote: 

" Dr. Franklin's Arrival in Phila. seems to give general Joy. I know of no one who 
has, politically, more real occasion for rejoicing than I have, as an opinion had generally 
prevailed that I was to be a Candidate for an office which he will probably obtain by 
general consent. And Tho' I had been explicit with my Friends in refusing to approach 



220 Continental Congress 

231. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 20th Sepr. 1785. 
Sir, 

We are honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 10th Instant, 
inclosing sundry papers relative to Incroachments made on our eastern 
Boundaries, and have communicated the same, together with the para- 
graph of your Letter that respects Capt. Stanhope, to Congress. Their 
attention to the Requisition, in Consequence of a fuller Representation, 
has so absorbed their Time, as to have hitherto prevented their passing 
on a Report, for ascertaining and settling those Boundaries; but no 
Exertion shall be wanting on our part to obtain a Decision of Congress, 
on that and other important Matters relative to the Commonwealth. 2 .... 

232. George Partridge to Samuel Holten. 1 

Duxbury Sept. 20th, 1785. 
my dear sir, 

.... tho' I am now out of the great world yet feel myself interested in 
publick matters, and wish to be inform'd whither Business goes on smooth 
and clever in Congress, whither we are like to have a foederal town, and 
when, whither we have a prospect of more commercial treaties, especially 
with Britain, whither you have a prospect of keeping your faith with 
Holland respecting money matters, and such other things as Leisure, and 
the obligations you are under will permit. 

Our Genl. Court you know are not in session and there is such a 
famine for news here that I can give you none, you must have heard 
of failure of Saml. A. Otis 'tis said for the moderate sum of thirty 
thousand L. M. 1 our late governor ' informs me that he thinks of going 
to N York in Xovr. and is particular in his inquiries about accommoda- 
tions for his family, as he intends to take them along with him. but you 
will not be very much disappointed if he should fail of going 



the steps of elevation, and had obtained the promise of divers of them not to permit my 
Name to be run, yet the Opposition, not being ascertained of this, would have issued 
plentiful showers of Filth at and before the Election, which I hope will now be held." 
Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

[231] 1 Pierpont Morgan Library, Declaration of Independence, II. (signed by Gerry, 
Holten, and King) ; Mass. Arch., Letters, 1780-1788, p. 238 (copy). 

- See no. 46, ante. The papers relative to the encroachments on the eastern boundarv 
of Massachusetts (an attempt of New Brunswick to extend its jurisdiction to Moose 
Island) were laid before Congress Sept. 19 and referred to the secretary for foreign 
affairs, who reported Sept. 24. On Oct. 13, on a motion of the Massachusetts delegates, 
it was ordered that copies of the documents be sent to the minister to Great Britain, 
who was instructed to make a representation to that government with a view to an ad 
ment of the controversy. The documents relating to the case were transmitted to Adams 
by Secretary Jay Nov. 1 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 431-454). Cf. nos. 274, 460, 
post. 

[23a] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 738. 

2 Lawful money. Some echoes of Otis's financial troubles appear in his letters in 
1789, when applying for the position of secretary to the Senate. See nos. 965, 977, post. 

8 John Hancock. He had been elected a delegate to Congress for the year beginning 
the first Monday in November, 1785. See no. 285, post. 



September, 1785 221 

233. Robert R. Livingston to Baron Steuben. 1 

Cler Mount 20th Sepr. 1785. 
I did not my dear Sir receive your Letter of the 2d till yesterday, Coll 
Clarkson having been very unfortunate in his passage. I should feel 
myself very unhappy in the obstacles that render it absolut[e]ly impos- 
sible for me to comply with your request, if I was not satisfied that till 
Congress are more full, nothing effectual can be done in your business, 
and that a few weeks will give you a fairer prospect of success. The 
controversy which considerations of honor and interest oblige me to 
persue w'th vigor, is to be determined the beginning of October. The 
Sheriff with the jury are to be here on the view in a few days, to neglect 
them would be ruinous to my affairs without affording me the consolation 
of being serviceable to yours, since there is little prospect of your ques- 
tions being brought on, and none of its being concluded within the time 
that I could now by any means devote to it, particularly as no day is 
mentioned to have been set down for it. I shall in every event be down 
by the 22d of Octr. and endeavour to bring with me Mr. Benson and 
such others of the delegates of this State as think with me.that the honour 
of the country is pledged to do you justice, not without some hope that 
they will be sufficiently numerous to carry the vote of the State — The 
only ground upon which our joint friends, who know my attatchment to 
you, think my presence necessary. Your merrits, and your services, plead 
too strongly in your behalf to need the aid of other advocates with those 
who are capable of being moved by any generous sentiment, with those 
who are not, I have little connection and less influence. 2 Believe me to 
be my Dear Sir with much sincerity and Attatchment 

Your Most Obt. Hum : Servt. 

Robt. R Livingston 

[233] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Livingston Papers. 

2 The history of Baron Steuben's applications to Congress in 1785 is briefly as 
follows: On Feb. 11 a memorial, dated Feb: 5, was referred to a committee of five 
(Howell, Gerry, Williamson, Hardy, and Cadwalader), who reported Mar. 17, recom- 
mending the payment of " two several liquidated debts due him from the United States ", 
one of 6000 dollars, the other of 1826 53/90 dollars, with interest, payment to be made 
out of the requisition of the present year. In addition the committee recommended the 
payment of an unspecified sum for the baron's relinquishments of posts of honor and 
emoluments in Europe. On Mar. 23 the first of these recommendations was adopted, 
while the second, after a motion had been offered to make the sum for relinquishments 
25,000 dollars, was postponed until the following day, when it was rejected. On May 3 
Steuben petitioned Congress for the immediate payment of the sums voted him on Mar. 
23, and on June 13 it was so ordered. The question of payment for the baron's relinquish- 
ments was brought up again on July 7 through a motion of Charles Pinckney, and on 
July 13 a committee (Howell, Gerry, Hardy, Grayson, and Wilson) recommended the 
payment of a sum as yet to be fixed. (The report as printed in the Journals, July 13, 
has the figures 7,000 and this may have been the recommendation of the committee ; but 
as recorded under Sept. 27 the sum is left blank.) This report was still unacted upon 
when Livingston wrote ; but action was delayed only a few days longer. On Sept. 27, 
after some small amendments pertaining to the mode of payment (see the erasures in 
the report of July 13), votes were taken whether the blank should be filled with 15,000, 
10,000, or 8,000, all of which were rejected, the sum being finally fixed at 7,000. This did 
not however end the baron's solicitations. See no. 120, note 3, ante, and nos. 286, 539, 545, 
754. 856, post. 



222 Continental Congress 

234. William Samuel Johnson to Samuel William Johnson. 1 

New York Septr. 21st 1785. 
D'r Son, • 

I have now to acquaint you that Genl. Parsons is Elected one of the 
Commissioners for holding the Indian Treaty and it is expected, if he 
Accepts the Appointment, that he will set out immediately. 2 It will be 
therefore for you to determine whether you will go with him upon this 
Tour or not. I do not at present know that upon this Commission he 
can give you any appointment under him to help you to bear any part 
of your Expenses, tho' on the other to Virginia he can Appoint you his 
Clerk. Another thing is, as the delays which have happened will probably 
occasion the Treaty to be postponed for some time, I fear it will be 
thrown so far into the Autumn and Winter, as to render it very uncom- 
fortable being in that Country so unsettled as it is, and so unprovided 
with Conveniences as you must unavoidably be, and that it may rather 
prejudice than benefit you in point of Health, or at best that the Tour 
must be attended with much fatigue. 8 If you see the matter in this light, 
for I only suggest circumstances to be considered of, and after all wish 
you to determine as shall appear most agreeable to yourself, and the 
General sho'd call upon you, you will decline going on with him in the 
Execution of his commission, but, as far as may be consistant, reserve 
a right to attend him in Virginia, whenever you shall be informed of 
his entering upon that business, which I presume you would incline to do 
unless you adopt the Burmuda plan. But I do not know that it will 
be necessary to acquaint him at present that you have the latter at all in 
Contemplation. 

I throw these things out for consideration, in great haste, lest you 
should see the Genii, before I do, 



235. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 28th September 1785. 
Sir, 

We have the Honor to enclose to your Excellency, a Requisition which 
was yesterday passed by Congress. As the Subject is important, and 
may influence your Excellency's Conduct respecting the convening of the 
Legislature, We have obtained a Copy of the printed Report, so corrected 

[234] * Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers (addressed to him at Stratford). 

* Gen. Samuel H olden Parsons was elected, Sept. 21, one of the commissioners 
to negotiate with the Indians. He accepted Oct. 10. Previously (on June 9) Parsons 
had been elected a commissioner to settle accounts between the United States and Virginia. 
8 In a letter to his son Sept. 25 (Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers), the father 
makes some further remarks concerning the son's plans. Johnson's diary through Septem- 
ber (see nos. 199, note 5, 214, note 2, ante) shows him uniformly "at (. 

[235] * Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 261 (in the writing of Gerry, and signed by him, 
Holten, and King). 



September, 1785 223 

as to be conformable to the Requisition, rather than to delay the Trans- 
mission of it for an attested manuscript Copy, which will be duly trans- 
mitted by the Board of Treasury. 2 

236. James McHenry to John Hall. 1 

[September 28 ? 1785.] * 
Dear Sir, 

Congress have at length passed a requisition for the supplies of the 
present year which I herewith inclose you. I know not whether it will 
be satisfactory to the State ; I only know that it does not please me. Its 
principles as you will perceive are only calculated for one part of the 
union ; I mean for those States which are in possession of the great bulk 
of continental securities where they may be purchased at eight for one. 
To these States it will prove a blessing; to Maryland it cannot. The 
States which it favors are Pennsylvania New Jersey and so on Eastward 
to New Hampshire inclusive. Considering the depreciation of the cer- 
tificates these States have it in their power to discharge their two thirds 
of their quotas at a very easy rate, while one years interest upon all the 
loan office and other continental securities belonging to the State of 
Maryland or its citizens will hardly exceed one fourth of our quota. Of 
course Maryland must pay three fourths of her quota in specie or run 
in debt. 

Let us add to this unequal operation of the requisition the real situation 
of Maryland. Many of our people are of opinion that we are among the 
foremost in advances, and that when the accounts of the union come to 
be settled that the other States will be found in our debt. I am very sorry 
to tell you that the reverse is the case. Maryland is one of the greatest 
debtor states in the union. We owe an immense sum to the other States 
as will appear from a statement which I intend to lay before the General 
Assembly. This debt of course will be greatly augmented by the new 
system of paying in interest, unless we can contrive to keep pace with 
the payments of the other States. 

.... I would only add that the States to whom we are in debt are 
numerous enough to compel us to pay them, which I dare say they will 

2 See no. 228, note 2, ante, and nos. 236, 237, 239-243, 249, post . On Sept. 28 
Congress instructed the board of treasury to transmit the requisition to the several 
states. 

A committee of which King was chairman reported Sept. 28 in favor of compensating 
Rhode Island College for the war-time use of the college buildings and the resultant 
damages (Journals, p. 709 n.), but on a vote Oct. 4 the proposition was negatived. It is 
not at all improbable that Rhode Island's refusal to grant the impost contributed to the 
result. For the prior history of the matter see no. 160, note 5, ante. The presentation of 
the report at this time was doubtless stimulated by a letter to Howell Sept. 9 from a 
committee of the corporation of the college, James Manning, John Brown, and Enos 
Hitchcock, urging him to press the claim upon Congress (Brown Univ. Lib., Manning 
Papers; Guild, Early History of Brown University, p. 418). See further no. 398, post. 

[236] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 67. 

2 This letter was probably written Sept. 28, the day after the adoption of the 
requisition. McHenry probably took his departure that day or the next, for he is not 
recorded as voting September 29. Cf. nos. 240, 243, 254, post. 



224 Continental Congress 

attempt as soon as a favorable opportunity offers. If Congress were in 
possession of a marine it is not difficult to divine in what manner it would 
be directed. 

There is one agreeable circumstance however attending this requisition. 
By the rule which governs the apportionments, and which was obtained 
after a great deal of squabbling, Maryland is rated at 10 1 ] of the whole 
estimate. By the rule which governed last year we paid an eighth part of 
the whole. 8 

Being very much pressed for time, I beg you will make my excuse to 
Mr. Worthington for not writing to him on this occasion and communi- 
cate to him the requisition. I am about setting out on a visit to Mrs 
McHenry for a few days who is in Philadelphia. I find that in case the 
Assembly should keep me six months longer with Congress which will 
close my three years that I shall be obliged to bring Mrs. McHenry to 
New York. 

237. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams. 1 

My dear Sir, New York 3 oth Sept. 1785. 

I am much obliged to you for your Hint relative to what may take place 
with Respect to the Cincinnati, in our Delegation of the next Year : We 
shall before the adjournment endeavour to fix on the Journals something 
that may operate to cripple, if not mortally to wound that unconstitutional 
Monster. 2 

I am happy to find that We unite in Sentiment in the Necessity of 
vesting Congress with more commercial powers: and flatter myself We 
shall not differ in making them in the first Instance temporary, and in 
opposing a general Revision of the Confederation, it is difficult to dv 
mine on a good Expedient, to remedy our present Evils, but We shall 
attempt it, if Time will permit. 8 .... 

I have the pleasure of inclosing a Copy of the Requisition, which is 
not so good as may be wished, but the best that could be obtained.* 

238. The Secretary of Congress to the Commissioners for 
treating with the southern indians. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Gentlemen,' 0ctr - 3- ^ 

It having been represented to Congress that since the peace with Great 

Britain a general Confederacy had been formed between the N or t h ern 

8 Cf. nos. 228, 235, ante, 237, 239-243, 249, post. 
[237] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (unbound). 

2 Gerry is replying to Adams's letter of Sept. 19, in Bancroft, Formation of the 
Constitution, I. 457. See no. 218, ante. 

8 Cf. nos. 192, 207, 230, ante. See also Jay to John Adams Nov. 1, in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1780, II. 431, and Correspondence of Jay, III. 175. 

4 Cf. no. 236, ante, and nos. 239-243, 249, 263, 265, 280, post. 
[238] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 153. 

8 The address in the Letter-Book is " Benj Hawkins Com'r for treating with 
the Southern Indians ". The source of the information was Arthur Lee's letter of Sept. 24, 
read in Congress Sept. 26 (Journals, p. 766 n.). Thomson in fact uses Lee's language. 



October, 1785 225 

Western and Southern Indians for their Mutual defence and it being sug- 
gested that it was probable this was done under the Auspices of the British, 
because the Indians particularly attached to their interest were the principal 
actors in that business, it is therefore judged necessary and I have it in 
charge to transmit to you the enclosed exemplifications of the treaties con- 
cluded at fort Stanwix and fort Mcintosh, the showing of which to the 
southern Indians may have a tendancy to break that Confederation or at 
least convince them they have nothing to hope from it. 

239. David Jackson to the President of Pennsylvania 

(John Dickinson). 1 

<-.. New York, Oct. 3d, 1785. 

I do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency and the Hon'ble 
Council three copies of the requisition for the present year which passed 
in Congress a few days ago. I dare say it will soon come officially thro' 
the Board of Treasury, but as it contains matters of much importance, 
I thought you would wish as early an inspection as possible. 2 

240. William Hindman to the Governor of Maryland 

(William Paca). 1 

„, , . New-York Octr. 3d, 178s. 

My dear Sir, ° ' J 

I herewith send you the Requisition for Supplies, which has at Length 
obtained a Passage thro' Congress. 2 

Mr. Harrisson says you have not fullfilled your Promise in Writing 
to him. He is well and desires his best Respects. Mr. McHenry is lately 
gone to Philadelphia on a Visit to his Lady so that Maryland is at present 
unrepresented. 3 

There are at this time ten States in Congress. 

The president is lately returned from Philadelphia whither He went 
for his Health and is much mended. 4 

Who will be your Successor? There is no News here. 

241. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

Dear s . r ^ New York Octob. 3rd, 1785. 

The requisition is at length finished ; and which I have now the honor 
of inclosing : 2 the article of 30,000 dollars for foederal buildings at 

[239] x Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 522. 

2 The requisition, with the heading " Report to Congress — National Debt ", 
is ibid., pp. 514-520. See also John Armstrong, jr., secretary, to Joseph Gardner, Oct. 21, 
ibid., p. 5 2 6. 

[240] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, IV. 143. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 27; also nos. 228, 236, 237, 239, ante, 241-243, 249, 263, 
265, post. 

3 See no. 236, note 2, ante, and no. 254, post. 

4 See nos. 202, 207, ante, and no. 250, post. 
L241] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See nos. 203, 228, 235-237, 239, ante, 243, 249, 263, 265, 274, 280, post. 



226 Continental Congress 

Trenton is expunged ; and I think the opposition to that measure is gain- 
ing strength. Some of the Southern States begin to view it in a different 
light. 8 

Congress have passed a resolution authorizing the Post Master general 
under the direction of the Board of Treasury to contract with the owners 
of the Stage coaches for the transportation of the Mail; it is expected 
the contracts will be formed in the course of the next month : after which 
there will be three mails a week through the Southern States. A new 
Ordinance for the Post Office is ready to be reported in which there are 
clauses for cross posts from Alexandria to Fort Pitt, and from Albany 
to the limits of Canada, but it is doubtful whether in this present Congress 
either will take effect. 4 

Mr. Payne has a memorial before Congress, to be allowed a sum of 
money for his services, to which there is a favourable report from a 
Comm'ee but I am fearful that nothing of consequence will take effect. 8 



242. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of South 
Carolina (William Moultrie). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 
5 Oct 1785. 
Sir, 

I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write on the 9 of Sept 
and that of the 14th from W. S. Drayton with the copies of the laws 
therein mentioned, which I have distributed agreeably to the orders of 
Congress. I have delivered to the delegates of your State a set of the laws 
of Massachusetts which are in the same situation as yours, incompkat 
None of the other States have yet sent forward their laws. 2 

I have the honor to send you herewith enclosed two acts lately passed 
one containing a requisition for 1785 and the other regulating the duties 
of the loan officers. The former you will likewise receive from the board 
of Treasury who are directed to forward it and to write on the subject 
to the several States. 

8 See nos. 95, ioi, 118, 160, 203, ante. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 7, 12, Oct. 5, Dec. 27; cf. nos. 151, 203, ante. 

6 A letter of Thomas Paine (Aug. 13) was laid before Congress Aug. 15 and re- 
ferred to a committee, who reported Aug. 22 that " Mr. Paine is entitled to a liberal gratifi- 
cation from the United States ". The resolution proposed by the committee was adopted 
Aug. 26. A further letter from Paine, wishing " to know what Congress mean to do for 
him, was referred to a committee Sept. 13, and this committee reported Sept. 27 in favor of 
paying him an unspecified sum, which Gerry and McHenry moved to make six thousand 
dollars. This motion having failed, there was a succession of letters from Paine which 
were referred to a new committee (sec the Journals, Sept. 27, 28). On Oct. 3 the board 
of treasury was ordered to pay him the sum of three thousand dollars. This action was 
probably taken after Grayson had written his letter. 

[24a] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 154. 

* Thomson wrote to the governor of Georgia the same day : " Not having received 
an answer to my letters of 28th and 31st May 2d and 9th June 28th July oth 24th and 
29th of August, I take the liberty of referring to them, not doubting but the resolutions 
of Congress therewith transmitted will in due time be attended to. I have now the 
honor ", etc., as in the second paragraph of this letter. 



October, 1785 227 

As I am not certain but the Com'rs for negotiating with the Southern 
Indians may have left Charleston before this arrives, I take the liberty 
of enclosing in your packet a letter for them and requesting the favour 
of your Ex'y to forward it as soon as possible. 



243. The Maryland Delegates to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 

New- York Octr. 5th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

We are very sorry to inform You of our Disappointment in pro- 
curing Continental Money. We had built on getting 1,500,000 Dol'rs 
from Mr. Marbois, who had that Sum in his Custody belonging to the 
King of France, but could not be prevailed upon to take less than one 
Spanish Dollar for 125 paper. We at first offered 250 hoping thereby 
to bring him to the Price limitted by You, but ineffectual. He has lately 
been appointed Intendant of St : Domingo, to which Place He sailed a 
few Days ago. Mr : Otto has succeeded him as " Charge des Affaires ". 
A Merchant of this City, who thought He should be able to furnish Us 
with 500,000 Doll'rs will He fears fall very short if there is not a total 
Failure on his Part. He had flattered himself that his Debtors in the 
Country, whom He had Reason to believe were possessed of considerable 
Quantities, would have rejoiced in an Opportunity of paying it in Dis-« 
charge of their Debts, but on knowing it would be received, immediately 
concluded that Congress mean to do Something for it's Redemption and 
therefore part with it reluctantly. We shall continue our Endeavors in 
procuring all We can. 

You will herewith receive the Requisition for Supplies, by which You 
will perceive that two Thirds of the Sum is payable in the Interest due 
on Continental Securities. Now Sir, if You thought it warrantable, would 
it not be laying out Money greatly to the Advantage of the State of 
Maryland to invest immediately what could be spared from the Purchase 
of Cont'l Money in final Settlement Certificates, which are in a very 
depreciated State, they may at this Time be bought here at eight for one. 
if We retain our present Sentiments, We shall deem it incumbent on Us 
to submit to the Considerations of the Legislature at their next Session, 
the Purchasing as large a Quantity of them as the Circumstances and 
Finances of the State will by any Means admit. 

8th Octbr. 

Since writing the above Mr. McHenry has entered into stipulations 
for between two and one millions of the Continental Money. This is a 
very fortunate circumstance as we understand some other States are in 
the same speculation which will of course raise the price. It will there- 

[243] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, box "1785" (body of letter by Hindman, signed by him and 
McHenry, with addition by the latter ; addressed, " The Hon'ble Daniel of St. Thomas 
Jenifer Esqr. Intendant of the Revenue, Annapolis"). 



228 Continental Congress 

fore be necessary to have remitted immediately about £3,000 as the 
payment is to be prompt. You may send it in bank notes. 

Yours etc 
James McHenry 2 

244. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 

Foreign Affairs. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress. 
Sir Octr. 6, 1785. 

I have it in charge to inform you that your attendance is required in 
Congress to Morrow at 12 O'Clock, to which time Congress have post- 
poned the consideration of your report " respecting the number of Con- 
suls necessary to be appointed and for what foreign ports " * 

245. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 

Foreign Affairs. 1 

<-.. New York 6 Octr. 1785. 

Herewith you will receive your letter of 2 Sept and sundry papers 
from Mr. Barre, with my report thereon, which is referred to you to 
take Order 

For your particular information I beg leave to mention that the reasons, 
on which the report is grounded, are these. 1st, that the cross demanded 
is not in the grant of Congress. 2d, That Mr. Barre never held a com- 
mission from Congress ; that he was captured in a private armed vessel, 
and that from his own account it appears that his sufferings during his 
captivity were owing to a suspicion of his being concerned in a mutiny 
and of having fired an 18 pounder which endangered the ship in which 
he was a prisoner. But had his claim to rank been well grounded BUCfa 
is the present state of the American Navy that it does not appear proper 
to grant. For your further information I enclose you a letter I red 
from Mr. Hardy relative to the vessel in which Mr. Barre was captured. 2 

2 As McHenry had left New York for Philadelphia (probably Sept. 28 or 29; 
m no. 236, ante), Hindman presumably sent his letter thither, where it received McHenry's 
addition. See no. 254, post. 

[244] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 283; ibid., Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. i v s7. 

2 See nos. 195 (note 7), 203, ante. Jay's report on consuls (dated Sept. 19), 
prepared in accordance with instructions Aug. 9, was taken into consideration Sept. 20, 
and Sept. 26 assigned for further consideration. That day was however taken up with 
the requisition. On Oct. 7 the report appears to have been referred back to the 
secretary for further report (see the Journals, p. 8 ion.). A revised report, dated Oct. 13, 
mi taken into consideration Oct. 14, and Oct. 17 assigned for futher consideration. The 
diacunion was n Mimed Oct. 24. when an ordinance respecting consuls appears to have 
been presented and was again under consideration Oct. 27 and 28. On Oct. 31 Jay made a 
further report on which there was some discussion, and there for the time being the 
matter ended, except that on Nov. 25, 30, Dec. 1 and 2 the case of John Temple as 
British consul general was under consideration. Jay's reports of Sept. 19, Oct. 13, and 31 are 
also in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 809-814. See no. 256, post. 

[345]' Library of Congress. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 287 ("Private"). 
- See no. 224. ante. 



October, 1785 229 

246. The Secretary of Congress to the President of 
New Hampshire (John Langdon). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

October 7th 1785. 2 
Sir, 

I have received the Letters you did me the honor to write on the 25th 
and 30th of August : 3 Since my last I have received sundry Acts from 
Massachusetts and South Carolina, and have in conformity to the Act 
of the 27th July delivered to the Delegates of your State a set of each 
for the use of the Legislature. 

The printer not having yet compleated the Journal of last month, I 
embrace the present opportunity of sending you herewith enclosed two 
Acts lately passed by Congress, one being a requisition for 1785 and the 
other respecting the Commissioners of the Continental Loan Offices. The 
former you will likewise receive from the Board of Treasury who are 
directed to forward it and to write on the Subject to the Several States. 4 



247. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

Octr. 7, 1785. 
Sir, 

Since my last I have received thirteen copies of sundry legislative Acts 
of South Carolina, one of which I have in conformity to the resolution of 

[246] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 
18B), p. 1. 

2 According to Committee Book no. 190 the secretary at war made a report Oct. 7 
on the motion of the Pennsylvania delegates relative to " officering the troops of that 
state raised under acts of April 1785 " (see the Journals, Sept. 25, p. 751 n.). Neither the 
Pennsylvania motion nor the report of the secretary at war appears in the Journals, 
but in a letter to the delegates Sept. 7 President Dickinson requested that they 
" immediately apply to Congress and obtain their assent to the arrangement adopted and 
executed last year" (Pa. Arch., first ser., XX. 511). See particularly the secretary at 
war to Dickinson Aug. 9 and Dickinson's reply Aug 13 (ibid., pp. 495, 497). Other 
correspondence relating to the matter is ibid., pp. 459, 460, 465, 469, 479, 483, 490, 508, 
525, 529. Cf. the Journals, July 7 (p. 518 n.), 20. 

3 Langdon's letter of Aug. 30 was read in Congress Sept. 14. 

4 A letter to the governor of Rhode Island, acknowledging his letter of Aug. 
29 (see the Journals, Sept. 5), is otherwise identical with this letter from "Since my 
last ". Cf. nos. 247-249, post. The act respecting commissioners of the Continental loan 
offices was doubtless that of Sept. 30. A letter from the board of treasury (signed by 
Samuel Osgood and Walter Livingston), Oct. 10, transmitting and explaining the requisi- 
tion of Sept. 27, is ibid., p. 538. The requisition (dated Sept. 17) is ibid., p. 525. The 
board also transmitted a statement of the account between the United States and the 
state of North Carolina. The status of North Carolina's account in the matter of sundry 
requisitions, signed by Joseph Nourse, Register, and dated Oct. 1, is ibid., pp. 533-536. On 
Oct. 25 the board transmitted the additional resolve of Oct. 12, with a further elucidation 
of the requisition and the account (ibid., pp. 546-551). See no. 257, post. On Oct. 29 
the board sent out a circular letter concerning the act of Sept. 30. That to North Caro- 
lina is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 558 ; that to Pennsylvania is in Pa. Arch., first ser., 
X. 527. See also no. 249, note 2, post. 

[247] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 1. 



230 Continental Congress 

the 27 July delivered to the delegates of your State for the use of the 
legislature. 

I find that almost all the states are in the same situation with respect 
to their laws, many of which are out of print. But as their attention is 
now turned to this object and they have it in contemplation either to 
revise their code of laws or to order a new impression, I hope the End 
which Congress had in view will soon be answered. . . . 2 

248. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
Sir, ° ct - 7 ' I785 

I have received your excellency's letters of the 3 and 14 Sept. The 
new composition of your laws will I conceive answer the end which the 
United States in Congress assembled proposed in their act of the 27 of 
July. I therefore hope your Excellency will be pleased to forward the 13 
copies of that composition by the first convenient opportunity. 2 . . . 

249. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
s . r Octr. 7, .785. 

As the printer has not yet compleated the journal of last month, I 
have thought it improper to delay forward'g the enclosed acts lately pa 
by the United States in Congress assembled, one being a requisition for 
1785 and the other respecting the Commissioners of the continental loan 
offices. 

I take this occasion to inform your Ex'y that having in consequent <.- 
of the act of Con[gress] of 27 July last received from Massachusetts and 
South Carolina sundry of their legislative acts, I have delivered to the 
delegates of your state a set of acts for the use of the Legislature and 
hope soon to be favoured with the the laws of your state to be distributed 
in like manner agreeable to the above mentioned act." 

'According to the Letter-Book the second paragraph of the letter to New 
Hampshire (no. 246, ante) here followed. 

[248] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 2. 

2 The remainder of the letter was identical with that to New Hampshire (no. 
246, ante) from "Since my last". Griswold's letters were read in Congress Sept. li 
and 27, respectively. 

Following is William Samuel Johnson's diary Oct. 3 to 6: " Octor. 3d. Visitl 
Congress. Dined at Presidents. Exps. 6/2; 4th. Do. Do. [i. e., "Visits at Congress"] 
Visits. Exps. 5/; 5th. Do. Do. many Do. [i.e., many visits] Exps. Candles etc. 7/0 
Do. Do. Do. Mr. Baldwin etc. Kxpens. 8/." On the 7th also he was " at Congress ". 

[249] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 3. 

2 This letter was addressed to the governors of New York, New Jersey, Pen: 
vania, Delaware, and Virginia. An identical letter (Letter-Book, p. 3) was addres- 
the governor of Maryland, preceded only by an acknowledgement of the governor's letter 
of Sept. 2 (read in Congress Sept. 9). The same letter was also addressed to the 
governor of North Carolina, preceded by an acknowledgement of the governor's 1 
of Aug. 23 and 30 (Letter-Book, p. 4). The letter to Governor Caswell is in N. C. Stats 
Recs., XVII. 537; Caswell's letters are ibid., pp. 509, 516. 



October, 1785 231 

250. Richard Henry Lee to .* 

New York October the 10th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 Our public letters of this day from the officers of the U. States 
at Pittsburg and its neighborhood, represent the Indian Nations, as 
Nations, in a friendly point of view, and seem to promise success as 
well to our treaty at the Mouth of Great Miami this month, as to the 
progress of business in surveying the Territory appointed for Sale north- 
west of Ohio. 3 You have been misinformed with respect to the violent 
proceedings at Boston. Both in that State and N. Hampshire they have 
indeed passed lately Commercial Acts respecting foreign trade generally 
that do not accord with our Commercial treaties both with France and 
Sweden, which have already produced memorials to Congress from the 
Consuls of these nations. 4 However, as these laws were probably the 
product of haste and inattention, I have no doubt but that they will rectify 
the evil upon a proper representation from the federal head. So essential 
is the difference between the Northern and Southern productions and 
circumstances relative to Commerce, that it is not easy to adopt any general 
system that would well accord with all; and the Staple States should be 
feelingly alive to the proposed plan of vesting powers absolute for the 
restraint and regulation of Commerce in a Body of representatives whose 
Constituents are very differently circumstanced. Intrigue and coalition 
among the No. Staple States, taking advantage of the disunion and 
inattenti[on] of the South, might fix a ruinous Monopoly upon the trade 
and productions of the Staple States that have not Ships or Seamen for 
the Exportation of their valuable productions. 5 You know Sir that the 
Spirit of Commerce is a Spirit of Avarice, and that whenever the power 
is given the will certainly follows to monopolise, to engross, and to take 
every possible advantage. I am free therefore to own that I think it both 
safest and best to give no such power to Congress, leave it to that Body 
to point out what is fit to be done in this [line], and founding their plans 
on principles of moderation and most accordant to the actual state and 
situation of the different States, to recommend their systems for the 

[250] * Mass. Hist. Soc, Washburn Autographs, Statesmen and Orators, p. 18; Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), II. 387. 

2 In the omitted passage Lee refers to his absence from Congress on account of 
his health (see nos. 202, 207, 240, ante), to the recent convention of the church at 
Philadelphia, and mentions his correspondent's " favor of August the 8th last ". The 
character and contents of Lee's letter suggest that it may have been to Madison (cf. 
no. 186, ante), although no letter of Aug. 8 from Madison to Lee has been found, neither 
is there any reply to this letter. Also militating against the supposition is the fact that 
Madison had been in New York about the time of Lee's return (Sept. 29 or thereabouts). 
Madison, coming from New York, arrived in Philadelphia Oct. 2. See his letter to 
Jefferson Oct. 3 (Writings, II. 178). That the letter is to some Virginian is evidenced by 
the last paragraph. 

3 A letter from Thomas Hutchins, dated at Pittsburgh Sept. 15, was read in 
Congress Oct. 10. Lee had also received a personal letter from Monroe, then at 
Pittsburgh. See nos. 253, 259, post. 

4 See nos. 117, 118, 198, ante; also the Journals, Aug. 25, Oct. 10, 11 (Jay's 
reports). 

5 Cf. no. 269, post. 



232 Continental Congress 

general adoption. I am persuaded that this plan would be successful to 
every good purpose. A contrary one would, I verily believe, be more 
hurtful, much more hurtful to us, than even the crabbed selfish system of 
Great Britain. Mr. Adams in a late letter to me from London, writing 
of Britain he says " the Nation must be made to feel, but this is a work 
of time, and it is dangerous work, because it may in such inflammable 
circumstances provoke War ". Indeed our proceedings with that Nation 
should be well considered, and cautiously practised upon. 8 

I am very fearful of the proceedings of our approaching session. Breach 
of Treaty, Paper Money, Violation of public faith, are all, I am in- 
formed, much talked of. Either of the three will be sufficient to injure 
us greatly, as well as the U. States, and I assure you Sir, from the best 
authority, that such things as these have already deeply and essentially 
injured the American character in Europe generally. Mr. Adams says 
in the same letter " I hope that persons and property in America will be 
held sacred ". T 

On the 8th of next month I shall return to Virga. after thirteen months 
absence from my family. 

251. Joseph Gardner to John Nicholson. 1 

_. . New York, Octr. 10th, 1785. 

Dear Sir, * 

I reed, yours of the 7th inst. on Saturday Just when the post was going 
away, therefore had it not in my power to answer it then. The applica- 
tion of Mr. Morris is yet with the Treasury Board unreported upon. I 
had some conversation with two of the Board on Saturday and expect 
that they will report this day but in what manner I know not. I was not 
authorized to ask nor they to have given a certified copy nor can I say 
whether Congress will allow a certified copy to be transmitted but I rather 
suppose not — there is two other propositions in it than that mention'd in 
my last, Vizt. That Congress will appoint a person to settle the accts. 
in conjunction with you or empower the Treasury Board to nominate 
such a person for the like purpose. 2 

I will write you again by next post and perhaps can give you further 
information 

252. John Habersham to William Gibbons, jr. 1 

Dear Gibbons, 

.... I think we shall leave this the beginning of next Month. Mr. 
Baldwin and Mr. Houstoun both say they will return about the same 

6 Adams's letter to which Lee alludes is that of July 15. See nos. 253, 260, post. 

7 Concerning proceedings in the Virginia assembly see Madison's letters of 
November, December, and January {Writings, II. 183-224). 

[251] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (addressed, "John Nicholson, Esqr. 
Comptroller etc. Philadelphia Free J. Gardner", and endorsed as "Reed. Octr. 12th 

1785 '')• 

•The report of the board of treasury (dated Nov. 17) on Morris's memorial 
(Sept. 23) is in the Journals, Nov. 24. 

rasapHist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed to "Wm. Gibbons junr. 
Esqr?'). 



October, 1785 233 

time; tho' I think the latter cannot easily quit a certain beautiful object. 
Mrs. Habersham seems reconciled to returning by water, and I imagine 
we shall go in one of the Carolina Packets to Charleston. The going by 
land is extremely tedious and not quite consistent with the length of my 
purse. 

With hearty wishes for your welfare, I remain, Dear Gibbons, 

Yours sincerely, 

p 5 John Habersham. 

New York, 10th Octr. 1785. 



253. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York October the nth 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... By a letter lately received from the hon. Colo. Monroe, who 
is at Pittsburg and intends to be at the Indian Treaty this month at the 
mouth of Great Miami ; we learn that the temper of the Indian Nations 
as nations, is not unfriendly to the U. States, and promising success, as 
well to the coming Treaty, as to the execution of the plan for surveying 
and disposing of territory beyond the Ohio for payment of the public 
debt. Colo. Monroe represents the Intruding Settlers N. W. of Ohio to 
be very few in number and they disposed to obey quickly the orders of 
Congress. 2 The negotiation with Mr. Gardoque proceeds so slowly, and 
as yet so ineffectually, that I fancy the free navigation of Mississippi is 
a point that we may take it for granted will not hastily be concluded upon. 
So that mischiefs from that source are probably postponed to a distant 
day. 3 In G. Britain, they have been so engrossed with Irish affairs, that 
as yet Mr. Adams has done nothing at that Court. He represents the 
Ministry, or a majority of them, as seemingly well disposed to us ; but 
fearing to do any thing decisive because of the discontent and irritability 
of the National mind, which he thinks only wants money to recommence 
the War with us — On which account he recommends careful, steady, and 
moderate conduct on our part. 4 The dispute between the Emperor and 
Holland is not yet settled that we know of. But a formidable league of 
Prussia, Saxony, and Hanover ; with some other powers, is actually signed 
to preserve inviolate the present State of the Empire against the intrigues 
of the Emperor who is stated as being much alarmed at this League. 

My brother A. Lee, who will have the honor of delivering you this 
letter will also supply any defect of intelligence that may have happened 
on my part. 5 .... 

[253] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 390. 

2 See no. 250, note 3, ante, and no. 259, post. 

3 See no. 256, post. 

4 See no. 250, note 6, ante, and nos. 255, 256, 259, 260, 265, 273, 280, post. 

5 This letter is in reply to Washington's letter of Aug. 22, which was in reply to 
Lee's letter of July 23 (no. 179, ante). Washington's letter is in Am. Phil. Soc, Lee 
Papers, II. 307; Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 117, (ed. Ford), X. 487. 



234 Continental Congress 

254. James McHenry to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 

Philada. nthOctbr. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I am got at length to this place on a visit of a few days. This is only 
to request that you will lose no time in making the remittance for the old 
money as we are pressed on all sides to make payment and threatened 
with a loss if we do not. I shall return to New York monday next altho' 
I do not expect that Congress will do any very important business during 
the present session. 2 

[P. S.] We have drained ourselves of all the money we had to pay 
for some of the paper we have bought. 



255. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

Octr. 14, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the hon'r to enclose your Excell'y the copy of a letter from 
Capt. Paul Jones at L'Orient, 2 am exceedingly sorry that what it contains 
is so unfavorable to the trade of the United States, and the liberties of 
its Citizens. In a former letter 3 the Delegates from New Hampshire 
informed his Excell'y the late President, that such measures had been 
adopted by Congress, as we hoped would prove effectual to obtain treaties 
with the Regenc[i]es of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, but as yet there is 
no account of the despatches which were forwarded to France in April 
last, having been received by our Minister there — and I have my doubts 
whether what was then thought necessary to purchase a peace, will now 
be adequate thereto. 4 If it should not I am of opinion that it will be best 
to make such an addition as will effect it. At present we are not in a 
condition to be at War with any Nation, especially with one from whom 
we are to expect nothing but hard knocks; As Congress have not official 
Accts. of this war. hope the news is premiture, but am afraid from 
concur'g circumstances. / 'ic that of a peace hav'g taken place between 

(^a54] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " Hnble Danl. of St. Th's Jenifer Intendant of the revenue 
Annapolis free James McHenry"). 

2 See nos. 236, 243, ante. On Dec. 6 McHenry and Hindman wrote to Jenifer 
from Philadelphia, reporting what they had accomplished up to that time in the purchase 
of old money (Md. Hist. Soc, box " 1785 "V 

[255] 1 N. H. State Papers, Farmer Coll., X. 151 ; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
N. H. Recs., Council Corr, 1782-1788 (dated Oct. 18). 

2 John Paul Jones's letter, dated Aug. 6, was laid before Congress by Secretary 
Jay Oct. 13. These letters, together with Jay's reply to Jones, Oct. 13, are in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 681-683. Jay's letter to Congress is also in Correspondence of 
Jay, III. 170. Jones's letter is also in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 501. Cf. nos. 258, 259, 
post. 

8 Feb. 27, no. 52, ante. 

* See nos. 256, 258, 259, 273, post. A letter on this subject from Jefferson to 
Langdon, Sept. II, is in Letters . ... to John Langdon, p. 23. 



October, 1785 235 

those Barbarians and Spain and That they are better prepared for war 
than they ever were, that the intelligence is well grounded. 

By the last letters from Mr. Adams at the Court of London, I doubt 
whether a commercial treaty between that nation and the United States 
will take place, he is of opinion that nothing will be done till the Spring, 
and is fearful that even then it will not be effected. 5 

There is a Grand Committee appointed to receive the heads of Claims, 
which each state has against the United States, not cover'd by resolutions 
of Congress. As it will not preclude any State from Charges under such 
heads as may be Omitted by the delegates who deliver in the Same I shall 
render to said committee those that occur to my mind, and by the next 
post after I have presented them, will send your Exceli'y a copy of the 
list. 6 

Mr. Foster set of about a week ago for New Hampshire, as the wind 
and weather has been very favorable for him, I expect he is at home by 
this time. 7 



256. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York Octob. 14th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have received your letter dated at Philada. and shall forward the in- 
closure to France in the manner you direct. Since your departure we 
have been under great anxiety for the fate of Mr. Hardy; On a party to 
Haerlem heights about ten days ago, he unfortunately bursted a blood 
vessel, and from frequent hemorr[h]ages has been in extreme danger till 
about three days ago, when matters have taken rather a more favorable 
turn : 2 He has requested me to inform you of his desire to get a seat 
in the executive Council if practicable, as he thinks the climate of his 
own country will be more suitable to the situation of his health; He is 
the more anxious to have this done, as it is not only his own opinion but 
that of his Physician, that he will never from the nature of the complaint, 
be proper for the bar ; or indeed for any kind of violent public speaking : 
He desires you will do him the favor of shewing this to the Speaker and 
taking such measures as you may deem adviseable. 

Nothing new has taken effect since you left this, except that Congress 
have had information of war being declared by the regency of Algiers 
agt. these U. S. I am afraid the information is too true : however I will 
write you again on the subject, the moment the news is confirmed in such 
a manner as to admit of no doubt. 3 

B See nos. 250, 253, ante, 256, 259, 260, 265, 275, 280, post. 

6 See the Journals, July 7, 8 (p. 52011.), 14, 27, 29, Aug. 5, Sept. 13; also nos. 
172 (note 3), 191, 207, 236, ante, 312, 317, 321, 364, post. 

7 Foster was present on Friday, Oct. 7, but was absent on Monday, the 10th. 
A postscript mentions the arrival at Alexandria of " Capt. Ervine of the Brig taken by 
the Algerines together with his crew". Capt. James Erwin (Journals, Feb. 21, 1786). 

[256] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See nos. 259, 262, 264, 289, 318, post. 

3 Cf. no. 255, note 4, ante. 



236 Continental Congress 

The suspicion here is that our friends the Brittish have done us this 
favor in order to make it indispensably necessary for us to imploy their 
vessels. Perhaps the Spaniard on making peace with the Algerines might 
wish that their armies might be turned agt. us. The Secy, for foreij^ti 
affairs is for war with these pirates; but I cannot see the policy of this, 
and think we had better follow the scandalous example of the European 
powers, and make peace with them as soon as we can. 

Nothing has transpired from Adams, respecting the subject we were 
talking of, since you left this : * 

The Report of the Secy, for foreign affairs, respecting Consuls has 
been recommitted, and he has made another report, principally recom- 
mending the vesting the American Ministers with Consular powers, and 
giving them extensive limits, where they will have deputies. 8 I shall be 
obliged to you to let me know as soon as you can conveniently what are 
your sentiments respecting the price of western lands, is a dollar too high 
all circumstances considered ? 

By a letter from Colo. Monroe we are informed there are not above 
30 families settled on the lands of the U. S. and these have agreed to go 
off when Colo. Harmer shall direct them and that the Geographer and 
surveyors have left Pittsburgh to execute the Ordinance. 8 

257. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular. Office of Secretary of Congress, 

October 15th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to forward to your Excellency herewith enclosed an 
Act of the United States in Congress assembled of the 12th Instant, by 
which the several States are earnestly called upon to compU at without 
delay the whole of their quotas of the Requisitions of Septe m ber, 1782, 
and of April, 1784, copies of both which you will find enclosed. 

Your Excellency and the Legislature have doubtless observed that in 
the estimate of 1784 Congress counted upon a compliance with the pre- 
ceding requisition, and therefore in the statement of the interest due at 
the close of 1782 they supposed its amount lessened by 1,200,000 dollars 
required and apportioned by the resolutions of the 4th and 10th of Sep- 

* See no. 280, post. 

6 The report is in the Journals, Oct. 13. See no. 244, note 3, ante. On Oct. 13 
also Congress adopted the report of a committee relative to the transactions of Tli 
Green at Natchez, supposed to have been under the authority of the state of Ge< 
The matter was brought to the attention of the secretary for foreign affairs by Gard<x|in 
Sept. 23 and was laid before Congress by Jay Sept. 27, in a letter of the 26th. Gardoqui's 
letter is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 181 ; Jay's letter (Oct. 14) communicating 
the action of Congress is ibid., p. 183, original in Arch, dc Indias, Papeles proccdentes dc 
la Isla de Cuba. For the principal correspondence relative to the Natchez affair see 
" Papers relating to Bourbon County, Georgia", in Am. Hist. AYt\. XV. (>fv-m. 297-353. 

• Such a letter from Monroe, written while on his western tour, has not been 
found. 

[257] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers : Library of Congress, Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 5; ibid.. Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788; N. Y. State 
Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5670; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 542. 



October, 1785 237 

tember 1782, and appropriated to the sole purpose of paying the interest 
of the public debt. 

The requisition of 1785 provides for the payment of the interest of 
the domestic debt up to the end of the year 1784 on a supposition that the 
States have complyed, or will speedily and effectually comply with the 
preceding requisitions of 1782 and 1784. Unless this is done the end 
will not be attained and the measure of facilities will operate injuriously 
to the domestic Creditors. For it being provided by the last requisition 
that the holders of Loan Office Certificates or other Certificates of liqui- 
dated debts may have the interest due thereon settled up to the last day 
of the year 1784 and receive the amount in Certificates receivable from the 
Bearer in lieu of money in discharge of only two thirds of the Sum 
required for 1785, it is apparent that so far as any State has been deficient 
in complying with the former requisitions, will Certificates be issued to 
the redemption of which the requisition of 1785 will be inadequate. To 
obviate this inconvenience and guard against the consequent depreciation 
of the interest Certificates, Congress have passed the resolution of the 
1 2th, by a compliance with which effectual provision will be made for the 
redemption of all the Certificates which will be issued and their Credit 
will be preserved. 

For further particulars I beg leave to refer your Excellency to the 
Board of Treasury who will write to you on the subject. 2 

258. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York October the 17, 1785. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The Governors letter concerning Capt. Stanhopes misconduct 
was immediately laid before Congress, and yours to me communicated to 
your delegates. In my absence Congress determined to send the papers 
to Mr. Adams in order to place the matter before Capt. Stanhopes 
Superiors. 2 It is certainly very difficult to judge of Courts and Courtiers, 
because hypocrisy, simulation, and dissimulation reign throughout, but so 
far as we may judge from the civilities shewn to Mr. Adams, and the 
professions made to him, we may suppose that the behavior of Capt. 
Stanhope (which seems to have been a complication of folly and insolence) 
will not be approved at St. James's 3 

2 See no. 246, note 3, ante. Under the date Oct. 15 (which was Saturday) William 
Samuel Johnson records in his Diary, " At Comm'ee". From the 10th to the 14th his record 
is " at Congress ". 

[258] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 395; Bancroft, 
Formation of the Constitution, I. 461 (extract). 

2 See nos. 198, 204, ante. 

3 A part of the omission is with regard to the threatened troubles with the 
Algerines. See nos. 255, 256, ante, and no. 259 post. Cf. Lee to Shippen Oct. 14, in Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), II. 392. 

William Samuel Johnson records in his diary that he was " at Congress " on Monday, 
Oct. 17, as also on the 19th, 20th, and 21st (on the 18th Congress attended the funeral of 
Samuel Hardy). From Oct. 22 to Nov. 22 Johnson was absent. On Oct. 18 he wrote a 
letter to Thomas Chittenden, governor of Vermont, by the hand of John Kelly (see 
Vermont Records, III. passim) counselling him with regard to procedure in that matter 
(ibid., p. 421 ; draft in Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 106). In the close of the 



238 Continental Congress 

259. Richard Henry Lee to James Monroe. 1 

New York October the 17, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have received the letter that you did me the honor to write to me 
from Pittsburg, and I am much pleased to find by it that the Indian 
nations, as nations, are not indisposed to us. I think it augurs well to 
our treaty at Miami, and for the survey and sale of western territory.* I 
am very unhappy to inform you of the death of our most worthy friend 
Mr. Hardy. He has been sick almost ever since you left this place, and 
early this morning he departed this life, greatly reduced, and without 
much apparent pain. His loss to the public is great. I wish sincerely that 
the Assembly may be both able and willing to fill his vacancy with equal 
ability and virtue, but unfortunately for the good of society, such char- 
acters as poor Hardy are rarely to be found, and too frequently bad men 
are ready to oppose merit and to thrust themselves forward into places 
that should be filled alone by sense and virtue. 8 Colo. Grayson proposes 
to sell the horses that you and Mr. Hardy had in partnership, as they 
will soon eat their heads off here, and where no Owner wants their use. 
We have too much reason to apprehend that the Algarines have declared 
war against our Commerce. These pirates having lately made a profitable 
peace with Spain, they have now (to the shame of Europe be it said) 
almost the whole of Europe their Tributaries, so that having little plunder 
now to get from that quarter, the Arm of Rapine is stretched out against 
us.* It is most clear to me from Mr. Adams's account of what passed 
between him and the Secretary of State concerning the British debts. 
that if our Assemblies do not irritate by throwing obstructions in the 
way of the Treaty of peace we shall obtain every reasonable wish concern- 
ing time for payment. He seems to be apprehensive of Violence, for he 
says " It cannot be too strongly recommended to let persons and property 
he held sacred ". 8 You will find that the business of Facilities, insultive 
as it is to us who have few or none, has been forced upon us as contended 
for when you were here. It is to me most plainly proper, that our 
Assembly should Tax our people, only for Federal purposes, what will 
suffice to pay our Quota of the foreign interest, and the expences of tlie 

letter lie says, " Be assured Sir these Sentiments are dictated by the prineipl< 
Humanity and a friendship for the Settlers and a sincere desire to prevent expensive and 
ruinous Controversies which so litigated a subject may occasion to both parties". In the 
draft he first wrote after " Settlers ", " my situation as a Member of Congress will not 
admit of my being more Explicit on this occasion ", but this sentence was erased. A letter 
to Chittenden Oct 10. entirely concerned with a grant to William Smith, is ibid., no. 107. 
[259]' Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 393. 

- ( '/. 110s. 253, 256, ante, 264, 26$, post. 

* Lee wrote to Thomas Lee Shippen Oct. 19 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 397) : 
" Poor Hardy is no more. His loss is really a very great one." See also nos. 256, ante, 
262, 264, 289, 318, post, and note 7, below. 

4 Cf. no. 258, ante. John Sitgreaves wrote from New Bern, N. C, to John Gray 
1 Mount, Oct. 30: " We have n<> Newi except what is brought from the Northward, that the 
Algerines have declared War against us as Barbarians. I see an Account of the Death 
of Mr. Saml. Hardy a Member of Congress from Virginia, in the New York paper." 
N. C. Hist. Comm., Blount Papers. 

6 Cf. no. 253, ante . and nos. 260, 262, post. 



October, 1785 239 

federal government; and not admit any facilities to be received in dis- 
charge of the Taxes but such as have originated with our own Citizens. 
This last will disappoint the plan of purchasing our produce with the 
certificates of these Northern States which will pay the domestic Creditors 
in these States whilst our own go unpaid. And thus we shall realy give 
a bribe to prevent the settlement of our Accounts and consequently pre- 
vent the payment of our own Citizens who are at least as large Creditors 
of the U. States as the Citizens of any other State. 6 

I shall be very happy to see you at Chantilly before you leave Virginia 
to return to Congress. 

P. S. Poor Hardy is to be buried in the evening of tomorrow under 
the direction and Auspices of Congress — for his funeral we are adjourned 
two days. 7 

260. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams. 1 

New York October the 23rd 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I received the letter that you did me the honor to write me on the 
15th of July with the pleasure that always accompanies the receipt of letters 
from my old and much esteemed friend. 2 .... In the mind of a person 
acquainted with the true state of things, there can remain no doubt but 
that this moment is the most favorable one that will probably occur again 
for G. Britain to make a favorable Treaty of Commerce with these U. 
States. The events which took place immediately succeeding the war, 
and which have produced such wrong conclusions touching the British 
security of possessing our Commerce exclusively, cannot prevent our 
Trade from going as it is fast proceeding to do, into other channels, 
where it is driven by the mistaken discouragements that are imposed by 
Britain. I have myself no doubt that smart duties of Tonnage will be 

6 Lee is here voicing his dissatisfaction with the requisition as adopted Sept. 27. 
See no. 236, ante, and no. 280, post. 

7 Notices of Hardy's death and funeral are found in Nezv York Daily Adver- 
tiser Oct. 18, 19, and 20. The most elaborate account of his funeral appeared in the 
New York Journal or Weekly Register Oct. 20, including an " Elegy on the Death of the 
Honorable Samuel Hardy, Esq.", over the pen name " Amyntor ". The late Dr. W. G. 
Stanard wrote to this editor that tradition ascribed an elegy on Hardy to the pen of 
Alexander Hamilton, but he could not point to the source of the tradition, neither has 
the editor been able to find any trace of such a poem, unless this be it. A copy of the 
elegy, with some slight variations, was found among the papers of Judge John Tyler, in 
his handwriting, and was printed as his in Letters and Times of the Tylers (vol. I., p. 191). 
However, when this editor brought to the attention of Dr. Lyon G. Tyler the poem by 
" Amyntor ", Dr. Tyler agreed that his grandfather could not have been the author, 
but as a close friend of Hardy had made a copy of it. If Hamilton was the author of 
the elegy it appears to be the only poem that can with any confidence be ascribed to him. 
William Temple Franklin, who had recently returned to America (with an introduction 
to Monroe, then absent), wrote to Jefferson Jan. 18, 1786: " I found only poor Mr. Hardy 
with whom I had scarce become acquainted before he was cut off. Never was a young 
Man more beloved, esteem'd and regretted" (Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers). 

[26o]i Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 398. 

2 Adams's letter, dated July 15, is in Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers. A printed text 
is in Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 141- See nos. 253, 255, 259, ante. 



240 Continental Congress 

laid by all the States on the Vessels of those nations with whom we have 
not Commercial Treaties, and that such will be prohibited from importing 
into our Ports productions or manufactures not the growth or manu- 
facture of the country importing them. Thus these States, forced into 
it by the intemperance of G. Britain and led by her example, will be 
forming laws to discourage a Commerce that might be so mutually bene- 
ficial ; if wisdom and temper prevailed over passion and folly. The project 
of a Treaty proposed by you to the Court where you are, is so perfectly 
just, and will be so greatly beneficial to both, that I cannot help hoping 
that it will be agreed to. 

.... Much harmony has prevailed this year in Congress, and I hope 
that same concord will continue 

261. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

~. New York, Oct. 24th, 1785. 

Give me leave through you to represent to the Genl. Assembly, that in 
Deer, last I drew a bill for 250 dollars upon the Genl. Treasy. of our 
State in favour of Messrs. Hewes and Anthony, who had furnished me 
with money for my subsistence, that said bill has not yet been paid, altho' 
Mr. George Gibbs, to whom it was transmitted, has frequently solicited 
for payment, and that I am called upon to repay the money generously 
advanced. 

For a long time I have been subsisted by small sums of money as they 
could be obtained from the Treasury, and by the advances of my friends ; 
and I have never had it in my power to discharge this debt. 

Justice and gratitude compel me to intreat the hon'ble General Assembly 
to order the Genl. Treasurer to procure money and discharge the draft 
before mentioned immediately. 

I expect soon to return home. I am in arrears for my board, and unless 
I am supplied with about 100 doll's, I shall be under the painful and dis- 
graceful necessity of leaving Xewyork indebted to the person with whom 
I have boarded, Permit me therefore to urge that this sum also be 
furnished by the Treas'r directly. 

In full confidence that these necessary requests will be complied with, 
and with sentiments of high respect for your Excell'y and the hon'ble 
General Assembly I am your Excellency's most obedt. servant, 

262. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York Octob. 24th, 17 

We are sorry to inform your Excellency of the death of one of our 
Colleagues, the Hon'ble Mr. Samuel Hardy; This gentleman had been 

[36I] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
P- 536. 

[16a] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Richard Henry Lee and Grayson). 



October, 1785 241 

indisposed for some time, when in coughing he happened to break a 
blood vessel; of this, and his other complaints he lingered till the 17th of 
this month when he departed this life; Congress on his decease appointed 
a comm'ee to superintend his funeral, and he has been interred in a 
manner suitable to his Station in the Vault of St. Paul's church in this 
City. 2 

We have been waiting for some time to know the result of a grand 
comm'ee appointed to digest principles for the settlement of public ac- 
counts before we answered your last letter ; We cannot say that we have 
any reason to flatter ourselves that any thing effectual will be adopted 
during this Congress, though we shall do every thing in our power to 
obtain so desirable an object: We presume the report of the comm'ee 
will come in (if at all) before the departure of the next post, when we 
shall write you again. 3 

263. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts 

Assembly. 1 

New York 27th Oct : 1785. 
Gentlemen, 

A letter from the Delegates of the 27th of May states to the honorable 
Legislature a number of Difficulties relative to the conduct of some of 
the States concerning the former Requisitions of Congress, and the want 
of a fixed and equitable Rule for apportioning future Demands upon the 
States. In a subsequent Letter of the 23d of August we remarked that 
we had endeavoured, when the requisition of the present year was under 
consideration, to have it so formed as to give a security against the 
future delinquency of the States, and prevent the application of monies 
by particular states, required, and raised for the sole disposition of 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 17 ; also nos. 256, 259, ante, 264, 289, 318, post. Concerning 
a proposal that the state of Virginia assume the expenses of Hardy's funeral, see a letter 
from John Tyler to Governor Henry Dec. 5 in Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 71, and in Henry, 
Patrick Henry, III. 341, and Governor Henry to the speaker of the House of Delegates 
Dec. 12, ibid., p. 342. Both letters are in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

3 Cf. no. 228, ante. The grand committee, appointed Sept. 28 and instructed " To 
report an Ordinance for expediting the settlem't of the public Acco'ts ", reported one 
resolution Nov. 3. On Oct. 18 the board of treasury, " Agreeably to the directions of the 
Grand Committee ", wrote to William Grayson, chairman of the committee, enclosing the 
dates of the resolves relative to allowances to states in settling their accounts (Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 140, vol. L, f. 59). Apparently no further progress was made toward 
the ordinance for nearly a year. On Aug. 9, 1786, a motion of Rufus King for the 
establishment of a board for the purpose was referred to a committee, and on Sept. 5 
King renewed his motion in a varied form, while on the same day the Virginia delegates 
offered a motion for a like purpose but more specific. These were referred to the 
committee on King's motion of Aug. 9, the committee undergoing some changes of 
personnel. The committee brought in a report Sept. 18, which was debated at length Oct. 5, 
again Oct. 12, and on Oct. 13 an ordinance on the subject was adopted. On Oct. 25 
Secretary Thomson transmitted to the states two copies of the Journals, Aug. 25 to Sept. 29, 
one for the legislature, the other for the executive; also a state of the representation 
during the month of September. Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 8; 
N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 555 (dated Oct. 27). 

[263] 1 Boston Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll., Ch. F 9: 69 (in the writing of King). The 
letter bears the legislative endorsement, " In Senate Novr. 7, 1785. Read and sent down — 
Sam'l Phillips Jr. Presidt." 



242 Continental Congress 

Congress. In the course of this business the many embarrassments of the 
Union, in consequence of the defective compliances with the requisitions 
by some States, and the total neglect of the same by others, were minutely 
examined, and on the conclusion the general Sentiment was, that the 
States must, and would make exertions not only to discharge former 
demands, but to comply with the Requisition of the present year. 

The Requisition being transmitted by the board of treasury, will fully 
explain our Sentiments upon this Subject; its great operation by discount, 
will certainly be favorable to Massachusetts and the other Eastern States. 
Upon examination it will be found that in the present requisition the 
Rule of apportionment is changed — the alteration was the Result of a 
compromise, and is an abatement to Massachusetts of more than Fifty 
five thousand Dollars on her quota of the second moiety of the Requisition 
for Eight millions of Dollars. 2 

From these considerations, and that no act of Massachusetts might 
bear the appearance of a denial of constitutional Support to the Con- 
federacy, we wish the Requisition of the present year may not only meet 
the approbation of, but be adopted by, the honorable Legislature : for 
whom we entertain the most perfect Respect, and have the honor to be 
with the highest consideration their 

obedient servants 
E Gerry 
Rufus King 

[P. S.] The residence of Mr. Holten being on Long Island, which 
prevents his being in the City before the usual hour of the daily meeting 
of congress, we are often as on this occasiond [sic] unable to obtain his 
Signature, without the delay of a post. 



264. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York October the 29, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I think that we have reason to suppose that the requisition of 
this year (which with the plan for surveying and selling part of the 
Western lands I have now the honor to enclose you) will produce, at 
least a sufficiency to pay with credit the interest of our foreign debt and 
to support the expences of the federal government. The unliquidated 
state of the domestic debt, and the unequal business of the facilities may 
perhaps obstruct for the present the payment of the domestic interest. I 
understand the displeasure of the Commissioners of the Treasury arose 
from Mr. Grand's failing to comply with orders given him to pay the 
interest due to the Crown of France which has created uneasiness and 
doubt of our punctuality when these would not have existed had Mr 

* See nos. 132, 228, 235-237, 239-243, 249, ante, 265, 274, 280, post. A letter from 
the delegates to the legislature May 27 does not appear, but that from King to Gerry of 
that date relates in part to the subject. 

[264] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 402. 



October, 1785 243 

Grand not undertaken to pay himself instead of the Government — How- 
ever, I suppose that the Commissioners will take care to make good the 
payments omitted by Mr. Grand to have been made to Government. 2 Ver- 
mont remains as it was, and we have heard nothing lately concerning 
Franklin. 3 The Virginia Assembly are agreed, so far as I know, to in- 
dulge Kentucky provided it shall be agreeable to the U. States to receive 
them into the Confederacy so that they may for every purpose be a part 
of the general system. A proposition is depending before Congress to 
declare the sense of the Union against all future dismemberments with- 
out the consent of the State to be dismembered and of the United States. 4 
Concerning your idea of packets I have spoken to some Members — the 
expence alarms, and they seem rather to approve of sending on occasion 
a Courier in the packets as they now are. But since a plan has lately been 
adopted for sending the Mails by stages instead of Post Riders, which 
will not only quicken communication greatly, but very much increase the 
Post Office Revenue, I hope that Packets as well as Cross Posts may 
e'er long be supported. We have lost poor Hardy who dyed here after 
some weeks illness. 5 The Surveyors are now at work (under the Ordi- 
nance) N. West of Ohio, and a Treaty with the Western Indians is 
holding at Great Miami. Our Assembly is now in Session, but we have 
not heard whether Harrison or Tyler has got the Chair, but certainly 
the contest will have been warm and pretty equal. 6 My Presidential year 
ends in 9 days, after which I shall return to Virginia for some months 
at least, my return to Congress will depend on the state of my health 
which is better indeed, but far yet from being as I wish it. 7 .... 

265. David Howell to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene). 1 

New York Oct. 29, 1785. 
Sir, 

From a variety of obstructions the requisition for the supplies of the 
present year did not pass 'till the 27 ult. I presume it has been officially 
communicated to your Excellency — And hope that the principles of it will 
meet with the approbation of the Legislature. 2 

2 Lee is replying to Jefferson's letter of July 12 (Writings, IV. 69), transmitted 
by the hand of the sculptor Houdon. A letter of the same date from Jefferson to the 
Virginia delegates and one of July 15 to Governor Henry, chiefly relating to Houdon, are 
ibid., pp. 72, 75- Lee's remarks respecting Houdon are here omitted. Touching the 
subject of the requisition, Jefferson remarks : " No subject is more interesting to the 
honour of the states. It is an opinion which prevails much in Europe that our government 
wants authority to draw money from the states, and that the states want faith to pay 
their debts." 

3 The State of Franklin. 

4 See nos. 273, 275, post. 

5 See nos. 256, 259, 262, ante. 

6 See Madison to Washington Nov. 11 (Writings, II. 191). 

7 See also Lee to Gardoqui Dec. 3, and to John Adams Dec. 12 (Letters of Lee, 
II. 406, 408). For comments of Otto, the French charge d'affaires, on Lee as President 
see Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 467 (extract from his letter to Vergennes 
Nov. 7). 

[265] X R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1783-1785; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 

P- 537- 

2 See nos. 235-237, 239-243, 249, 263, ante. 



244 Continental Congress 

I learned with pleasure and took the earliest opportunity to announce 
to Congress that the Genl. Assembly at their August Session ordered a tax 
of £20,000 subject to future appropriations. This readiness to comply 
with, or more properly to provide for beforehand, the Constitutional 
demands of Congress could not fail to make a good impression on our 
Sister States. I wish it may also be the ambition of every citizen to fur- 
nish an example of punctuality in the payment of taxes for Foederal 
purposes. As a motive hereto it may be observed that a large ballance 
of the Sum called for to pay domestic interest must ultimately come into 
the pockets of our citizens. 

By late Letters from the westward there is reason to expect that the 
Troops sent there will be able to effect the objects of their instructions — 
that the lands purchased of the Indians at the late Treaties will be secured 
from intrusive settlers, surveyed and exposed for sale in due time, and 
prove an important fund for the extinguishing the domestic debt. 

It is to be presumed that the Commissioners are now in Treaty, at the 
mouth of the Great Miami, with the more westerly Indians, for peace and 
the purchase of additional territory : But, for certain reasons, it is difficult 
to conjecture the result of their negotiations on the latter Subject. 8 

Letters from Mr. John Adams have come to hand as late as the 10th 
of August last, and he makes no mention of an Algerine war with the 
U. States. He has laid a project of a treaty of Commerce before the 
British Minister. It is feared that our Ministers abroad will not be able 
to obtain very beneficial Treaties of commerce 'till Congress shall be 
armed with more efficient powers on this Subject: But in confering these 
powers a distinction betwixt the power of regulating trade and that of 
raising a revenue from trade must be carefully preserved. The former 
perhaps may be exercised by Congress with safety: the latter ought to be 
tenaciously retained by the particular States. But, tho' our Ministers may 
not suceed on this head agreeably to our wishes for want of power to make 
effectual Stipulations on our part, or to give a quid pro quo, we have the 
Satisfaction to receive repeated proofs of the good disposition of our 
friends in Europe, and of a growing esteem and respect for the U. States 
throughout the World.* 

The hope that I should return in time to attend the present Session 
of the Assembly has prevented my writing before (and I now write in 
great haste), and indeed the uncertainty of continuing in our Seats since 
May has constantly held up to us the probability of a return, 8 and, to- 
gether with the want of materials, renderd my communications less fre- 
quent and less copious than usual. The ultimate point of time to which 

» Cf. nos. 253, 256, 259, 264, ante, and no. 292, post. 

4 Cf. nos. 253, 255, 259, 260, ante, 269, 273, 280, post. Letters of Adams alluded to 
are those of Aug. 6 and 10, and probably also that of Aug. 8 {Works, VIII. 289-298; 
Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 178 3- 1789, II. 421-430)- Jay's acknowledgement, Nov. I, it ibid., 
p. 430. 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 8 (p. 620 n.), 16 (p. 630 n.), 24 (p. 655 n.), 30 (p. 669 n.), 
Sept. 6 (p. 682, report). 



November, 1785 245 

the present delegation extends will arrive this day, se'nnight ; and I must 
be execused for pressing the necessity of sending forward a delegation 
to represent the State in the next Congress at an early day 

266. Samuel Holten to the Governor of Massachusetts 

(James Bowdoin). 1 

New York, 31st Oct. 1785. 
Sir, 

Last evening I was honored with your Excellency's address to the 
delegates of the 24th inst. with the enclosures, but being indisposed, I 
have not had an opportunity of seeing my colleagues since, however, I 
thought it adviseable to notice, that part of your letter, that mentions, 
Congress's appointing " a thanksgiving day ". I am sensible, that, in the 
course of the late war several such days were recommended by congress, 
but, as it has not been usual, formerly, in any of the states southerly of 
Connecticut, as I am informed, to appoint such days, I believe no person 
here expects it to be done by congress this year, for I consider it uncertain 
whether there will be any business done this week for want of a repre- 
sentation of seven states, and when the new congress will meet depends 
upon the arrival here of a sufficient number of the gentlemen chosen. 2 

I took notice, in your Excellency's letter to the delegates, you were 
pleased to mention, a letter you had received from me. 

267. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 

Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 2d Novr. 1785. 2 
Sir, 

We are honored with your Excellency's Letter of the 24th of Octr., 
inclosing two others for his Excellency the president of Congress, which 
We have carefully delivered him. 3 

We observe your Excellency is of Opinion, " that if in the Union there 
is the Operation of such discordant principles as make it hazardous to 
entrust Congress with power, necessary to its well being, the Union can- 
not long subsist." this Opinion is perfectly coincident with our own, and 
We flatter Ourselves, it does not militate with the Ideas expressed in our 
Letters of the 18th of Aug. and 3d of September, for We still have 
Reason to conceive, that the best and surest Mode of obtaining such an 
addition to the powers of Congress as is necessary to the well-being of 

[266] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C; Mass. Arch., Letters, 1780-1788, 
p. 242 (copy). 

2 Cf. no. 267, post. 

[267] 1 Pierpont Morgan Library, Declaration of Independence, I. (signed by Gerry 
and King) ; Mass. Arch., Letters, 1780-1788, p. 228 (copy) ; Bancroft, Formation of the 
Constitution, I. 466. 

2 In N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 213, is a letter from 
Charles Thomson to Jefferson with the date Nov. 2, 1786. The proper date of the letter 
is Nov. 2, 1785. It is mainly in reply to a letter from Jefferson June 21, 1785 (ibid., 
p. 200). 

3 Bowdoin's letters to the President are not noted in the Journals. 



246 Continental Congress 

the Union, is to make the powers temporary in the first Instance, and 
when approved by Experience, to adopt them as part of Confederation: 
and We likewise conceive that if a Convention of the States, is necessary 
on this occasion, the Members thereof should be United in their Authority 
and confined to the revision of such parts of the Confederation as are 
supposed defective, and not entrusted with a General Revision of the 
Articles, and a Right to report a plan of foederal Government, essentially 
different from the republican Form now administered. 4 

We suggested to Congress the propriety of recommending to the States 
a general Thanksgiving but as there were but seven States on the Floor 
and one or two of them against it, the Measure could not be adopted. 5 

268. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York 2d Novr. 1785. 
My dear Sir, 

The petition inclosed in your Letter of the 2nd of Octr. I have layed 
before Congress, who have referred it to the Board of Treasury, as the 
Time of the present Congress expires in a few Days, I have communicated 
your Letter to Mr. King who is well acquainted with the Matter and 
will attend to the Report when made. 2 I hope to have the pleasure of 
seeing You within a Month 

* See nos. 198, 205, 215, 229, ante, 296, 298, post. 
8 Cf. no. 266, ante. 
[268] « N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 A letter from Adams to Gerry Oct. 2 (if that be the correct date) has not 
been found. However, in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., I. 4, is a letter dated Oct. 23, 

ftrobably to Gerry, which seems to be the letter here referred to. Adams does not in that 
etter name the petitioners, but compares their case to that of Captain Landais and asks 
his correspondent to converse with Mr. King, who was chairman of the committee on the 
Landais memorial (see no. 76, note 2, ante, and no. 325, post). The memorial was doubt- 
less that of Benjamin Pierce, " in behalf of marines and mariners of Alliance frigate 
touching settlem't of their Acco'ts ", noted in Despatch Book, no. 185, vol. 3, p. 144. as 
received Nov. 1, 1785. In Committee Book, no. 190, p. 75, it is recorded that the " Mcm'l 
of Benj. Pierce in behalf of the marines and mariners, on board the frigate Alliance" 
was referred Nov. 1 to the board of treasury to report. Such a memorial, without date, 
is found in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 42, vol. VI., f. 375. endorsed by Secretary Thomson. 
" Read May 22, 1786 Referred to the Board of treasury to report ", and by Roger 
Alden, " Acted on June 7th, 1786 ". It is entitled, " The Petition of Benjamin Pierce 
late Gunner of the Continental Frigate Alliance, for himself, and in behalf of a Number 
of the late Officers and Mariners of said Ship ", and is signed " Benjamin Pierce Guncr 
Signed in behalf of the above officers and Mariners to the Number of about Fifty ". The 
petitioners indicate that they had previously received certificates for their wages and now 
ask for settlement for the prizes taken in the cruise of the Alliance, which the board of 
treasury had assured them they should receive when Dr. Franklin and John Paul Jones 
should arrive. I'otli had now returned, and they understood that Paul Jones had received 
his proportion. In accordance with their report (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 138, vol. II., 
f. 257, dated May 23, in the Journals, May 24) the board was instructed June 7 to obtain 
accurate returns of the officers and men serving on board the Bon Homme Richard and 
the Alliance at the time of captures. 

The petitioners mention that they had repeatedly petitioned Dr. Franklin in France 
" and this Honourable Body " and refer particularly to their petition in the summer of 
1785. The latter petition has not been found, but the Despatch Book, no. 185, vol. 3. 
records the receipt, July 27, 1785, of a petition of Benjamin Pierce " for pay and 
share of the prizes taken by the Alliance", and the Committee Book, no. 190. records 
under the same date that a " Petition of Benjamin Pierce in behalf of himself and others 



November, 1785 247 

269. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, November 2d, 1785. 
Sir, 

.... The sentiments uniformly expressed in your official letters to 
the Secretary of Foreign Affairs since your residence at London meet 
correspondent opinions in all the States eastward of Maryland. You 
very well understand the false commercial reasonings and ill-founded 
policy of the other states. Their present conduct will hereafter be the 
cause of bitter regret. The Navigation act of Massachusetts you un- 
doubtedly will have seen before this reaches you. New Hampshire has 
passed a similar law, and other states probably may follow their example ; 
yet granting that the measure will not become general, still the Con- 
federation has put it in the choice of the seven or eight eastern states to 
become great commercial powers. Even admitting what is affirmed in 
England that the Southern and Eastern states cannot agree in any system 
of commerce which will oppose to Great Britain commercial disad- 
vantages similar to those which she imposes on our commerce and navi- 
gation, yet the eight Eastern states can agree. They have common objects, 
are under similar embarrassments, would vest adequate powers in Con- 
gress to regulate external and internal commerce ; and in case the Southern 
States decline, to vest similar powers in Congress, or to agree in some 
uniform system; the former by confederation are competent to form, 
and in the event must form, a sub-confederation remedied of all their 
present embarrassment. 2 

This is a matter that will be touched with great delicacy; the subject 
is better and better understood every day in America, for it is the general 
conversation and examination. You, sir, know your countrymen, you 
have witnessed their enterprize and resolution under superior difficulties. 
Will they suffer their commerce to languish and expire? Will not the 
spirit which dictated the non-importation agreement and which once per- 
vaded these states again appear? It still exists, and though it may have 
slept for a time, it can again be roused ; and if once more it becomes vigilant, 

serving on Board the Frigate Alliance" was referred to the board of treasury to take 
order. The payment of the wages, as mentioned in the petition of Nov. 1, was evidently 
in consequence of this petition of July. A note in the Journals, under July 27 (p. 585 n.), 
identifies this petition as the one read May 22, 1786; but, as pointed out above, they 
were distinct petitions. A still earlier petition, likewise without date (Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 42, vol. VI.. ff. 101-104), is endorsed as "Read May 10th 1784 Copy transmitted to 
the Super't of Finance" (see the Journals, 1784, p. 364 n.). That petition asks for the 
whole of their wages and also to be relieved in regard to their prize money. In the 
American Philosophical Society, Franklin Papers, III. 9, is a letter to Franklin dated at 
Brest Mar. 3, 1779, and signed by Benjamin Pierce and twelve other petty officers of 
the Alliance, complaining that Captain Landais had not paid them their wages or furnished 
them with sufficient provisions, and that they were in great need of clothing. 
[269] x Life of King, I. 112. 

2 Cf. nos. 191, 192, 196, 198, 205, 264, ante, 288, 206, post. Adams's reply, Dec. 23, 
is in Life of King, I. 117. See also Stephen Higginson's letter to Adams Dec. 30, in 
Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, vol. I., p. 725. In one passage Higginson dis- 
courses upon the dissimilarity between the northern and southern states in habits, 
manners, and commercial interests, and the consequent difficulties of welding them into 
an harmonious union. 



248 Continental Congress 

and can be made active by the pride of independence, the idea of national 
honor and glory, the present embarrassments of trade and the vain 
sophisms of Europeans relative thereto, will not only direct but drive 
America into a system more advantageous than treaties and alliances with 
all the world — a system which shall cause her to rely on her own ships 
and her own marines, and to exclude those of all other nations 

270. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 
Sir, 

I received last Evening a letter from the Secretary informing me of 
my being elected a delegate to Congress. I consider myself highly hon- 
oured by this repeated appointment, and shall do all in my power to serve 
the interest of the State as well as the United States therein. I shall make 
my own domestick affairs so far subservient to the publick service as to set 
out for New York as soon as I shall be possest of the Commission and 
necessary subsistence. 

Concord 5th Nov 1785. 

271. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 6th Nov: 1785. 
Sir, 

In addition to the information already given respecting the proceedings 
of congress, we are to inform your Excellency that the agents of massa- 
chusetts and New York, knowing that Governor Johnson, of maryland, 
one of the Judges of the foederal Court, had attended at Williamsburgh, 
and not meeting the Parties and other Judges there, had sent his Resig- 
nation to congress, and that no answer had been received from Mr. 
Fleming of Virginia another of the Judges, preferred a petition to Con- 
gress that a future Day might be appointed for the convention of die 
Court ; who passed a Resolution that the court shall be held at Williams- 
burgh on such future day as the Parties by their Agents may agree upon, 
and hereafter certify to congress; or in case of Disagreement, on such 
future Day as congress shall appoint, upon the Application of either 
Party. 

The Agents of the two States joined in a Letter to each of the two 
Gentlemen, soliciting them to number themselves with the Judges. 2 

It may be proper to remark to your excellency that the Agency of the 
Delegates in the institution of the foederal court ceases with the present 

[270] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

[27i| 1 Hoston Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll.. E 8:55 (signed by Gerry. Holten, and 
King) ; Mass. Arch., Letters, 1780-1788, p. 228 (copy). 

2 See the Journals, June 9, Nov. 2; also nos. 205, 216, ante, 300, 315, post. Thomas 
Johnson's resignation is noted in the Journals under Sept. 14 (p. 707 n.). A copy of the 
memorial of the New York and Massachusetts agents, Nov. 1 (in the Journals, Nov. 2), 
is in N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duane Papers, vol. VII., which contains also numerous other 
documents pertaining to this case. 



November, 1785 249 

congress on this day. The Resolve joining the Delegates in the Agency 
for the institution of the Court, gave authority to such Delegates only, 
as were actually in Congress on a certain day. Those Delegates will not 
be of the next congress, and the situation of the Controversy may render 
it expedient hereafter that the Commonwealth should have Agents at, or 
near congress. 

The Delegates of New York and massachusetts agreed on, and nomi- 
nated, Col. Hutchins Geographer of the united states, Mr. Rittenhouse, 
and Doctr. Ewing of Philadelphia, as commissioners to run the eastern 
boundary Line of New York adjoining to Massachusetts. But the Dele- 
gates of Rhode Island disagreeing to an interference of Congress in 
this mode, and there being only seven states on the Floor, the business 
was postponed. But we doubt not but that an appointment of these 
Gentlemen will take place immediately upon the meeting of the new 
Congress. 3 

272. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

Nov. 7, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed two 
copies of the Continuation of the journal of Congress from the 29 Septr 
to the close of the Session, one copy for the legislative and the other for 
the Executive branch of Government. In conformity to the Act of the 
17 August I enclose also a state of the representation in Congress from 
the beginning of Octr. to the first Monday in Novr. and have to request 
the favour of your Excellency to lay it before your Legislature 2 

273. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York Novr. 7th, 1785. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor of inclosing your Excellency the Statement 
of the account of taxes, exclusive of the specific supplies, of all the States : 
We had directed copies of the advances on the treasury books against 
each State, and that the same might be liquidated in specie value ; this is 
not yet made out but will be completed some time this month, when they 
will be forwarded to Richmond: we had likewise ordered statements of 
the public accounts to the close of the last month ; these will be ready by 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 29 ; cf. no. 205, note 3, ante. Hutchins, Rittenhouse, 
and Ewing were nominated Sept. 30, and were elected Dec. 2. See no. 300, post. 

[272] ! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (to Pennsylvania); Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 9; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 532 ; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 563. 

2 The schedule of representation, Oct. 3 to Nov. 4, printed in N. C. State Recs., 
XVII. 557, will be found in an appendix to the " List of Members ", ante. 

[273] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (in Grayson's writing and signed by Lee 
and Grayson). 



250 Continental Congress 

the last of the week, and will be sent on together with the accts. of the 
late Superintendant of finance, and will exhibit the most satisfactory view 
(that it is in our power to procure) of the expenditure of the public 
moneys. 

The Register is making out a State of the public debt, which will com- 
prehend all the liquidated certificates: He will have directions to inclose 
them to your Excellency at Richmond : 2 

The evils likely to flow from the practice of dismembering States having 
created serious alarms in the minds of those who wish well to our Con- 
federacy, induced the delegations of Virginia and Massachusets to propose 
that the sense of Congress should be made known against the dismember- 
ment of any State without the previous approbation of the State about 
to be dismembered, and of the United States as your Excellency will 
observe by the Journals, and although the opposition givin to this mea- 
sure by some who coming from small States appear to wish for every 
facility to lessen the larger ones, has hung up the motion in suspence for 
the present, yet they were compelled to acknowledge (in agreement) the 
propriety of the measure whenever it should be brought forward to 
Congress as the desire of any one or more of the legislatures of the larger 
States; the above delegations have therefore agreed to lay the matter 
before their respective constituents, to the end that instructions may be 
sent for this purpose if the hon'ble legislatures of Virginia or Massa- 
chusets shall think proper so to do. 8 

Your Excellency will observe that the public papers abound with 
accounts of Algerine captures of American vessels, and yet our Oftki;il 
accounts from Europe as late as the ioth of August make no mention of 
this war : It was early in the spring that Congress dispatched |)owers to 
the Plenipotentiaries of the United States in Europe, to make treaties in 
the usual way with Morocco, and the regencies of Algiers Tripoli and 
Tunis : But we know not to what cause it is owing that a Mr. Lamb who 
was charged with the dispatches, was not lately arrived in Europe : Dupli- 
cates of these powers have therefore been lately sent by the packett.* 

2 The board of treasury transmitted to the states Nov. 30 a s t ate ment of the 
accounts of the several states in the matter of requisitions (N. C. State Recs., XVII. 587; 
see ibid., pp. 533-536) With a circular letter Dec. 17 the board transmitted to the 
a " General Account of Receipts and Expenditures of the United States" from Nov. i. 
1784, to Nov. 1, 1785. The letter and statement are ibid., pp. 559-562. See no. 283, post ; 
cf. no. 246, note 3, ante. 

• See the Journals, Oct. 7, 12, 13, no. 264, ante, and nos. 275, 308, 309, post. A 
grand committee appointed on the subject Oct. 12 gave place to a new grand committee 
Mar. 10, 1786, who reported Mar. 24. 

* See no. 83, note 2, ante. On May 30 Adams wrote that he had no news of Lamb 
Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 365), as did the commissioners June 18 (ibid., I. 592). 
)n Aug. 14 Jefferson wrote to Jay, Mr. Lamb's delay gives me infinite uneasiix 

(ibid., I. 597, 627), and Jay wrote to Jefferson Sept. 14 that he had heard nothing of or 
from Lamb (ibid., I. 618). On Oct. 11 however Jefferson reported that Lamb had at last 
arrived, but that he and Adams had already designated Thomas Barclay for the mission 
to Morocco. It was then decided to send Lamb to Algiers, accompanied by Paul R. Randall, 
while Barclay was to be accompanied by Col. David S. Franks. Adams made a similar 
report to Jay Oct. 15 (ibid., I. 652, II. 478). See also Carmichacl to Jay Dec. 9 (ibid., 
III. 304). The commissions, instructions, etc., to Barclay and Lamb are ibid., 1 
On the same day that Jefferson was writing of Lambs arrival Jay was reporting to 



H 



November, 1785 251 

274. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams. 1 

New York 8th Novr. 1785. 
My dear sir, 

.... The Tales which You have heard of Gallicans and Antigallicans, 
british and antibritish, are without Foundation. 2 Congress can not be 
more free from foreign and domestic Influence, than they now are; and 
there are no parties in America, but such as are produced by clashing 
Interests, which there is a general Disposition to reconcile — the Cincin- 
nati indeed may be considered as an Exception ; but their Institution will 
be soon attacked in Congress, and I hope abolished. Congress have taken 
much pains to obtain a full Representation of the States; from the Want 
of which We have not done half the Business which We otherwise might 
have done the past Year. We have however put on a good Footing the 
Departments of the Treasury, War Office and foreign affairs, the Busi- 
ness of which is very regularly and expeditiously conducted. We have 
also by adjourning to this place, quieted the Uneasinesses which resulted 
from the Want of accomodations in princetown, Trenton and Annapolis. 
We have obtained a good Requisition and regulated the Loan offices so 
as reduce the thirteen Receivers of Taxes, and unite both Offices into 
One : passed the Land ordnance, in which however I think there must be an 
alteration so far as to reduce the price of the foederal Lands offered 
for sale. We have also given You powers to adjust with the Court of 
London the eastern Boundary Line of Massachusetts, and have made 
You, Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Carmichael Consuls general, in the Kingdoms 
wherein You respectively reside. 3 .... 

275. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York Novr. 8th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

The President being this moment about to set out for Virginia obliges 
me to be very short at present : We have no authentic advices from 
Europe respecting the Alger ine war, although the papers speak of several 
captures of american vessels : Nothing new from Mr. Adams respecting 

Congress upon the unaccountable delay of Lamb's appearance in Europe. On Oct. 20 
he reiterated his report, and on Nov. 2 he wrote Jefferson of his anxiety to hear from 
Lamb {ibid., I. 673), and on the same day he reported that he was preparing duplicates 
of the despatches sent by Lamb {Journals, Oct. 12, 20, Nov. 2). See nos. 259, 265, ante, 
275, 277, 283, 309, 315, 364, 380, post. The account of the negotiations with the Barbary 
powers is in Ray W. Irwin, The Diplomatic Relations of the United States with the 
Barbary Powers, chs. II., III. Concerning John Lamb, see particularly pp. 37-40. 
[274] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 Gerry is replying to a postscript to Adams's letter to him Aug. 26 {Life of Gerry, 
I. 478) : "I hear of Gallicans and AntiGallicans, of British and Anti-British influence in 
America. I hope there are no such interests there. I think we should be impartial as 
far as our treaty with France will allow us, and no farther. But it would be very unwise 
to have any Anti-Gallican or Anti-British parties or partisans." 

3 Respecting the reference of the eastern boundary question to Adams for 
negotiation see the Journals, Oct. 13, and no. 231, ante. For the act making ministers 
consuls general see the Journals, Oct. 28 ; cf. no. 195, note 7, ante, and nos. 275, 289, post. 

[275] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

23 



252 Continental Congress 

the debts : I will again look at his letters, and give you the necessary 
information in confidence. You will then judge for yourself as to the 
expediency or inexpediency of a certain measure.* 

I shall at all events stay here till next Munday in order to collect some 
documents which are necessary for the State, and will write you again 
before I leave this. Mr. Hancock is talked of by the Southern States for 
President, though I suppose if Governor Nash or Paca were to come 
forward, they would change their tone. 

Since you left this we have had a considerable flurry respecting a motion 
brought foward by Massachusets and Virginia respecting the dismem- 
berment of States : the motion is on the journals. 8 

Contracts for the transportation of the Mail are made — two mails a 
week throughout America, for six months and three mails a week for 
the six other months — to begin in Jany. next. 

276. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congri 

Novr. 9, 1785. 
Sir, 

Although I have regularly forwarded two copies of the journal as 
printed, one for the legislative and another for the Executive branch of 
government. Yet lest some of the sheets may have been mislaid and 
thereby the volumes rendered incomplete, I now forward to y'r Exc'y 
two complete Copies of the journal of last year bound, one of which you 
will be pleased to transmit to the legislature, reserving the other for the 
use of the Executive. 2 

On the 28 July last I had the honor of transmitting a copy of the 
enclosed resolution of the 27 by which I am directed to apply to the 
Executives of the several States [for] 13 copies of the legislative Acts 
thereof since the 1 Septr. 1774 and to adopt a similar mode [for] pro- 
curing the acts which may thereafter be passed as aforesaid. The purposes 
for which these Copies are desired and the end to be answered are fully 
explained in the resolution. 8 

In consequence of this resolution I have reed. 13 copies of sundry acts 
from the States of Massachusetts and South Carolina, one of whicli I 
delivered to the delegates of your state for the use of the legislature 
thereof I am informed by his Exc'y the governor of Connecticut 

* The " certain measure " was doubtless the proposed measure in the Virginia 
assembly relative to British debts. See Madison to Ambrose Madison Dec. 15 and to 



Monroe Dec. 24 (Writings, II. 203, 20O ; cf. nos. 280, 284, 289, post. 

8 See no. 273, note 3, ante. Madison had recently beer 
letter to Jefferson Oct. 3 (Writings, II. 178; Letters, I. 195). 



1276] J Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 9; N. J. State Lib.; N. C. State 
Recs., XVII. 565; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 543. 

8 According to a notation in the Letter-Book this first paragraph composed a 
letter to Massachusetts, Connecticut, and South Carolina; the entire letter was sent to 
all the other states. Governor Caswell's acknowledgement, Jan. 6, of Thomson's com- 
munications from Aug. 22 to Nov. 7 is ibid., XVIII. 489; his acknowledgement of tbil 
letter, Jan. 21, is ibid., p. 508. 

• See nos. 185, 199, ante. 



November, 1785 253 

that previous to the passing of this act, that State had sent a copy of its 
acts to the legislatures of the several States. I beg leave to request 4 your 
attention to this matter. 

277. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

<-.. New York November 10, 1785. 

In my last of the 14th Ult. I enclosed your Excellency a copy of a letter 
received from capt Jones at L'Orient, containing an account of war being 
declared by the algerines against the United States, 2 we daily see publi- 
cations in the papers of their taking some of our vessels, and chasing 
others and at the same time no mention is made of the war by our 
minister Mr. Adams in either of his letters dated the 6th 8th and 10 
August, and the nth September in the latter he says, as capt Lamb, 
who was the bearer of the dispatches authorizeing our ministers to treat 
with those Barbarians, is not arrived, they shall depute Mr. Barclay 
together with Mr. Franks consuls in france to go on this Embassy. 8 

I also mentioned that a grand committee was appointed to receive heads 
of such State claims, against the United States as were not covered by 
previous resolutions of Congress. The committee after frequent meetings 
have reported as follows, Viz.* .... 

Your Excell'y will please to observe that in consequence of my being 
reelected by the Hon'ble General Court a delegate in Congress for the 
ensueing year, was the reason of my not returning with Mr. Foster, 
Supposing that Official information thereof would come to hand in season 
for me to take my seat but as yet have not received any. 

As I know its my duty to wait here untill so much time expires as 
would bring an answer to this, shall tarry, and then if I do not receive 
my credentials, shall return to New Hampshire. 5 

278. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

D , <-.. Stratford Novr. nth, 1785. 

I am unfortunate that I was upon a Journey at Woodbury at the time 
yr. Letter of the 7th Instt. reached Stratford, and have not returned in 

4 The Letter-Book copy and the text in Pa. Arch, have "request"; but N. C. 
State Rccs. has " call ". 

[277PN. H. Arch., State Papers, Farmer Coll., X. 163; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 No. 255, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 83 (note 2), 273 (note 4), 275, ante, 283, 309, post. There appears to 
be no letter of Adams dated Sept. 11, and that dated Sept. 15 contains nothing concerning 
Lamb or Barclay. The first letter in which Adams appears to have mentioned the agree- 
ment between him and Jefferson to send Barclay on the mission is that of Oct. 15 (Dipt. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 478). Jefferson's letter containing the same information 
is dated Oct. 11 (see no. 273, note 4, ante). 

4 Long here quotes verbatim the report of the grand committee, recorded in the 
Journals, Nov. 3. 

5 Long's credentials were presented Nov. 28. See no. 292, post. 
[278] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 108 (draft). 



254 Continental Congress 

any season to pay my respects to your Excell'y at N Haven as I sho'd 
otherwise have done. Since I have been thus unavoidably prevented from 
waiting upon you for the purpose of receiving that information you was 
so good as to propose communicating to me, I must beg the favour of yr. 
Excell'y to Instruct me by Letter as fully as it can be done upon those 
subjects you had intended to mention to me. 

I am sorry to find that the Assembly had not time before they broke 
up to consider upon the subject of directing three Delegates to attend 
Congress from this State, which I conceive to be a matter of much 
importance. I was in hopes also that some further and more effectual 
provision would have been made for the support of those who shall attend. 
But I presume the variety of important affairs before the Assembly must 
have prevented it. And since as far as I can obtain information upon 
the subject, I find that it is expect'd that I sho'd attend the ensuing 
Winter, I have as far as possible reconciled my Mind to it and wish as 
soon as possible to be in the discharge of my Duty. But do assure yr. 
Excell'y without disguise that I have not by me, nor in my Power, cash 
sufficient to support me even for a single week at N York, and must 
therefore beg yr. Excell'y to give such directions where it may be proper 
as will tend to furnish what may be necessary, and then as soon as it 
arrives I shall be ready to begin my Journey. 2 

279. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Matthew Griswold). 1 

Stratford Novr. 14th 1785. 
D'r Sir, 

While waiting a Conveyance for the [blank'] 2 I received yr. favour 
of the 8th covering an order on the Treas'y for £200 : o and am much 
obliged by yr. Excell'ys Attentions to procure me the necessary supplies 
to proceed on to Congress. I do not know what more could possibly be 
done. I hope one or other of the applications may be successful, and as 
I have said in the former Letter the Moment I am in Cash I shall set out. 
Five States, I am informed were in N York on Saturday last as well as 
one Delegate from two other States all extremely impatient for the 
arrival of a sufficient Represent'n to open Congress. They shall not 
certainly be detan'd a single Day by my absence after I am able to pro- 
ceed. 8 .... I shall be happy to receive the Resolutions of the Assembly 
relative to our Claim of Western Territory, and yr. Excell'y may be 
assured that the most exact attention shall be paid to them 4 by 

Y'r Excell'ys most obed't humble Servant 

* See no. 279, post. 

[279]* Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 108 (draft, written on blank sheet of 
letter from Governor Griswold Nov. 7). 
2 The blank is in the draft. 

* See nos. 287, 302, post. The information of Congress was in a letter of Roger 
Alden, assistant to the secretary of Congress, written Saturday, Nov. 12 (Conn. 1 
Soc.. Johnson Papers, no. 120). 

* The Connecticut act was laid before Congress Jan. 18, 1786, and referred to a 
committee who reported Apr. 10. See nos. 336, 381, post ; if. nos. 45. no. 133, i~j, ante. 



November, 1785 255 

280. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York Nov. 14th, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

On inquiring at the Orifice for F. A. I find it is uncustomary to give 
copies unless by special direction of Congress, a circumstance I did not 
advert to, when I was writing to you last : I shall therefore give you the 
best information in my power from memory : 2 

.... This I think is the substance of what Mr. A. has remarked, to 
the best of my memory; from his subsequent correspondence, it does 
not appear to me to be probable that any thing will be done very speedily, 
in this or any other business : Mr. Adams thinks nothing will touch them 
but restraints laid on their trade by Congress; At the same [time] he 
insinuates that such restraints may eventually produce hostilities. 8 Upon 
the whole it is difficult to determine whether the bill alluded to ought to 
pass this Session or not ; 4 I was in great hopes it would have been in 
my power to have giv'n you better information before this but the last 
letters mention nothing about the matter. 

By last Post the delegation wrote to the Governor giving their reasons 
for not assenting to the requisition ; 5 their design was only that the will 
of the State might not be fettered by their acts : If the State for the sake 
of preserving public credit should think it expedient to pass a legislative 
act complying with the requisition I then beg leave to submit to your 
consideration the propriety of purchasing in different parts of the Con- 
tinent as many certificates of interest, as that when added to the interest 
due the citizens of the State on liquidated certificates may be equal to two 
thirds of their proportion of the same, having in contemplation at the 
same time the one fourth of the requisition of 1784 which remains yet 
to be satisfyed as far as it relates to facilities ; this mode I should think 
would be preferable to that of laying an interest tax on the Citizens for 
the full two thirds of the States proportion, as thereby a competition would 
be raised and the interest of course obtained on worse terms than if the 
purchase was conducted (as far as relates to the deficiency) by State 
agents; with respect to the interest due the Citizens of the State, perhaps 
an interest tax pro tanto may be an eligible mode. Some of the delegates 
have it in contemplation [to] commend to their States to purchase prin- 

[280] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 275, ante. A summary of some letters of John Adams, particularly those 
of June 6 and 17, is here omitted. The letters are in Adams's Works, VIII. 259, 268, 
and in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 178 3-1789, II. 371, 378. 

3 See especially Adams's letters of June 26, July 19, 29, Aug. 6, 30 {Works, 
VIII. 273, 279, 289, 310; Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 385, 396, 400, 421, 467). 
Adams is particularly pointed in his letter of Aug. 30, which had not however been 
received by Congress, being among the despatches mentioned in the close of the 
letter as having just arrived. Jay's response, Oct. 14, to the letters of June and July is 
ibid., p. 419, and in Correspondence, III. 172. See also nos. 281, 283, 284, 290, post. 

4 See no. 275, note 2, ante. 

5 Such a letter from the delegates has not been found. The opposition of the 
Virginia delegates and some others to certain features of the report on the requisition is 
manifest throughout the discussion; but the yeas and nays on the final vote (Sept. 27) 
are not recorded. Cj. nos. 236, 259, ante. 



256 Continental Congress 

cipal, which may be now had at 2/8 in the pound without charging for 
the back interest; however I do not conceive this to be the interest of 
our State, her claim agt. the Continent for the Western expedition must 
be soon allowed, as a credit in some shape or another ; it is beside expected 
the sales of the Western lands will very soon greatly diminish the domestic 
debt, of course the demands on our State will be lessened according to 
such diminution 

The Consular arrangement has been before Congress since you left 
this; and nothing was done except that of vesting the Ministers and 
charge des affaires at foreign Courts with the powers of Consuls general : 
The ballance remains for the new Congress : 6 

Yesterday the English and French packets both arrived, but do not 
understand they have brought any news of consequence. Indeed their 
contents have not yet got abroad. 7 

N. B. The part of this letter which relates to a certain subject is 
intirely confidential. 

281. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Circular Office of Secretary of Congress 

Novr. 1 8th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I am sorry to inform your Excellency, that, notwithstanding it seems 
to be the intention of the Confederation that all the states should punctu- 
ally assemble in Congress on the first Monday in November, there are yet 
but five states represented, namely Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, 
Maryland and South Carolina and one member attending from Georgia. 

The late packets from Europe have, I understand, brought dispatches 
which demand the immediate and attentive Consideration of Congress. 
I beg leave to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed a copy of 
a letter which T have just received from the secretary for foreign affairs. 
and hope you will be pleased to urge the delegates for your State to come 
forward as speedily as possible. 2 

• See nos. 195 (note 7). 275. ante, and no. 289, post. 

1 See no. 281, post. 

[aSipMass. Arch., House Files, no. 1803; N. J. State Lib.; Pa. State Lib., P. P.. 
CXVIL; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 11 ; N. J. Rev. Corr.. p. 
Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 537; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 576. The copy in the secret 
Letter-Book carries the notation, " Circular to N. H. R. Con. D. V. N. C. and G.", but, as 
the record above indicates, the letter was sent also to Massachusetts, New Jersey, and 
Pennsylvania. 

2 In most repositories a copy of Jay's letter to Thomson Nov. 18 is found with 
Thomson's letter. The original is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 80, vol. II., f. 53. It is 
printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 538 (erroneously inferred to have been to the president 
and council of Pennsylvania), and in JV. C. State Recs.. XVII. 577. Following is the 
letter (Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 12, "copy") : 

"Office for foreign Affair-. 

18 Novr. 178s. 

" Pear Sir, The season when the legislatures usually meet to do business is at hand. 

It is highly probable that Congress will find it expedient to call their attention to certain 



November, 1785 257 

282. Rufus King to Samuel Holten. 1 

New York 21: Nov: 85. 
My Dear Sir, 

We have only five states represented. Pennsylvania and Connecticut 
are expected — when they are here we can form a House. 2 No public in- 
formation since you left us — it is very singular that congress have no 
Official information of the Algerine war. 3 

We heard that the Genl. Court were doubtful whether they would 
pass an act complying with the Requisition, because the affair of the Old 
money was unsettled — you understand this business. Other states have 
claims more important than ours — whenever the last are settled, the Old 
Emissions, and Penobscot, will be connected. 4 

283. William Grayson to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York Nov. 22nd, 1785. 
Sir, 

Since writing by the last post, I have procur'd from the board of 
treasury, a schedule of the aggregate amounts of advances to the different 
States in the Union; the component articles which from these amounts 
are about being printed, and will then be forwarded ; as the changes were 
very numerous, and as it was necessary that every one (however insig- 
nificant) should be reduced to specie value by the scale of depric[i]ation 
I am not surprised that the work has taken up so much time. The advances 
to the State of Virginia are relatively small, as your Excellency will 
observe by ascertaining the proportions; but from this circumstance it 
does not appear that any immediate advantage is to be derived to the 
State, as it is contended that the resolution of the 3rd of June 1784 
suspends the payment of interest untill the general settlement of the public 
accounts. 

I do myself the honor of inclosing also the general account of receipts 
and expenditures from the first of Novr. 1784 to the first of Nov. 1785. 2 
Mr. Morris's book of receipts and expenditures has not yet been authen- 

objects of general concern and particularly to some which the present state of our foreign 
affairs present. The late advices I have received from Europe demand the attentive 
consideration of Congress and in my Opinion will give Occasion to Recommendations to the 
states, and other measures which should not be delayed. Considering the time unavoidably 
consumed by deliberative bodies in maturing their acts it is to be regretted that a 
sufficient number of states to proceed on every kind of business within the powers of 
Congress are not now represented. Communications to the states for the purpose of 
accelerating their representation in Congress fall more properly within your department 
than mine. I therefore think it my duty to give you these hints, that your letters to the 
states on that subject may impress them more strongly with the necessity of their 
providing for their being speedily, fully and constantly represented in Congress." 
[282] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 525. 

2 See no. 287, post. 

3 Cf. no. 273, note 4, ante. 

4 See nos. 246 (note 3), 273 (note 2), ante, and no. 283, post. 
[283] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

2 See nos. 273, 282, ante, and no. 284, post. 



208 Continental Congress 

ticated by Congress, but as there is no other immediate means of shewing 
a state of them I shall forward them by the first convenient opportunity, 
the same being too bulky for a conveyance by Post; When the Grand 
Comm'ee were settling they directed the comm'rs of the Treasury to 
furnish extracts of the correspondence of the different comm'es of public 
accounts with the late financier and with the present board; copies of 
these Extracts etc. I beg leave now to inclose, which will serve to shew 
the difficulties of the State of Virginia in the settlement of her accounts, 
as well as those of most of the other States in the Union. 

An Official letter from Mr. Adams dated the 15th of September makes 
no mention of the Algerine war ; a letter from Mr. Jefferson of an older 
date mentions it only as common report. 8 

284. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you by the, last Post, since which other letters have arrived 
from the gentleman therein mentioned. They came by the last packet t : 
and one is dated as late as the 15th of September last : In it however there 
is no mention of the Algerine war : Mr. Jefferson has also wrote by the 
french packett, but his letter is of an old date: There has been a con- 
ference with Mr. Pitt.* 

.... I have been detained here longer than I expected, waiting to 
forward some documents which I concieved might be of advantage to our 
State ; and which I have had more difficulty in procuring than I first 
expected. I have by this post sent the aggregate amounts in specie value 
of the advances to each State; 8 by which it will appear that our State 
has had but little comparatively: The Union in fact owe her a million 
of dollars and upwards on this account provided she has made equal 
exertions in other respects ; that is to say she has received a million less 
than her foederal proportion. It is said however that no advantage can 
be immediately derived from this circumstance, as it is contended that 
the interest on all these sums is suspended till the final settlement of 
accounts by the resolution of the 3rd of June 1784. This same resolution 
then holds out an additional temptation for prolongating the settlement ; 
Rhode Island has had a million of dollars ; is it likely then to suppose she 
wishes for the arrival of a period when she is to account? the same 
observation will apply to those who are similarly circumstanced. It will 
be difficult then when Virginia meets with embarrassments to get them 
removed by Congress : 

Virginia has a demand (in opposing Lord Dunmore) of £40x3,000 — 
Virga. money incurred from Sepr. 1775 to December 1776: which I do 

"Letters recently received from Adams are dated Aug. 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, Sept. 

2, 3, 6, and 15. They are in Dip!. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 455-476. Jay's reply, 

Nov. 26, is ilnd., p. 476. The letter of Jefferson referred to is doubtless that of Aug. 14, 

ibid., I. 627; Jay's reply, Dec. 7, is ibid., p. 637. Cf. nos. 273, 282, ante, and no. 284, post. 

[284] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 283, note 3, ante. Adams's conference with Pitt is described in his letter 
of Aug. 25 {Works, VIII. 302; Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, IL 455). 

• See no. 283, autr. 



November, 1785 259 

not know is supported by any resolution of Congress, it is true she has 
the same reason to have it allowed as Massachachusets. Besides there are 
resolutions of Congress which direct assistance which assistance Congress 
says shall be paid : however it is said here that all this goes for nothing. 
This subject of our public accounts deserves great consideration. I hope 
you will consider this letter as confidential 

New York, Nov 22nd, 1785. 

285. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular Office of the Secretary of Congress, 

' Nov. 23d, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform your Excellency that seven States this day 
assembled in Congress, and have unanimously elected his Excellency, 
John Hancock, President. 2 

[285] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 13; Pa. State Lib., P. P., 
CXVII. ; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 539; N. C. State Recs., XVII. 581. 

2 Rufus King appears to have written to Hancock the same day informing him 
of his election. See Hancock's reply to Thomson Nov. 30 (no. 291, post) and his reply 
to King the same day {Life of King, I. 114). See also James Sullivan to King Oct. 25 
{ibid., p. ill). Cf. no. 232, ante, and nos. 289-293, 296, 297, 301, 308, post. 

On the day on which the election of the President took place a motion by John Kean 
of South Carolina, calling for a report by the board of treasury on the expenses of the 
President's household for the years 1783, 1784, and 1785, was referred to the board of 
treasury " to take order ". The board's report, addressed to the President and apparently 
read in Congress Nov. 30, is as follows : 

" Board of Treasury, Novr. 25th, 1785. 
"Sir, In pursuance of the Directions of Congress of the [blank] the Register of the 
Treasury has made out a statement of the Expenditures for the Support of the Presidents 
Household from the 6th Novr. 1782, to the 30th of October 1785, distinguishing the 
periods of the Sessions of Congress, at Philadelphia, Annapolis, and New York. We do 
ourselves the Honor of laying it before Congress" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 140, vol. 
II., f. in). 

Following is the statement transmitted (ibid., f. 115) : 

" These are to Certify that the Payments from the Public Treasury in Support of the 
Presidents Household including Steward's Salary, and House Rent have been as follows. 

Dollars 

"From 6th Novem'r 1782 to 6 Novem'r 1783 10,948.33 

7th Novem'r 1783 to the adjournment of Congress from Annap's 6,873.21 

From the meeting of Congress in 1784 to the 30th October 1785 . . 12,290.57 



30,112.21 
Registers Office the 25 November 1785 
Sign'd Jos. Nourse Reg." 

" Note : Private Secretary's Salary is not included, which is 450 Dollars pr. Annum " 

Filed with the treasury report and register's statement are the drafts of two motions by 
Kean (ibid., ff. 119, 121), as follows: 

"R — That the expenditure for the support of the presidents household; including the 
21st Novem'r 1781, including his private secretary, shall not exceed the rate of Twelve 
thousand dollars yearly commencing on the first Monday in November." 

" R — That thd expenditure for the support of the presidents household ; including the 
salary of his private secretary, house rent, Steward and servants wages and all other 
expenses whatever, shall not exceed the rate of [blank'] dollars pr. annum." 

In the Journals (Nov. 30) these two motions are combined, the variations being indi- 
cated by bracketed phrases. The second is doubtless a revision of the first and the one 
actually presented, for it bears an endorsement by Thomson : " Motion of Mr. Kean on 



260 Continental Congress 

286. Elbridge Gerry, Statement. 1 

New York 23d Novr. 1785. 
The subscriber certifies that having a Seat in Congress at the time of 
the Baron de Steubens Arrival, at York Town, he well remembers the 
Facts, herein Stated, excepting what relates to the Entertainment, which 
he doubts not, was provided, and to the time of the Barons Arrival at 
that place which was in the beginning of the Year 1778. the subscriber 
further Certifies that, in all Questions agitated in Congress whilst he has 
been a Member, respecting the Allowance that should be made in per- 
suance of the within stipulation, he has considered the Claim of the Baron 
for a full Indemnification and Compensation as a Claim of Justice, 
founded on the Verbal Contract of the Parties. 2 

(Signed) E. Gerry 

the expenditure for Pres't Household Novr. 30 1785. Referred to Mr. Symmes, Mr. 
Laurance, Mr. Johnson." On Dec. 28 the committee reported a resolution essentially in 
conformity with Kean's motion, the maximum amount being fixed at twelve thousand 
dollars, as in Kean's first draft (see the Journals). The report is endorsed, "Report of 
Mr. Symmes, Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Tohnson on Presidents household Ent'd Read 28 Deer. 
1785 settled by act 23 March 1787 . Committee Book, no. 189, p. 7, has under the date 
Dec. 28, 1785, the notation, " transf'd On Presidents household Ob [»'. e., obsolete]." Oa 
p. 31 of the Committee Book is the notation, " Delivered 28 Deer. 1785 President's house- 
hold settled by act 23 March 1787 ". For a summary account of the prior history of the 
action of Congress respecting the President's household see Am. Hist. Rev., XXX V. 69-76; 
also J. B. Sanders, The Presidency of the Continental Congress, pp. 44-52. 

[286] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Steuben Papers (copy). 

2 This is one of a group of testimonials (copies) in behalf of Baron Steuben, 
among the Steuben Papers in the New York Historical Society. One of the documents 
is a statement of Steuben's arrival in America, his conference with a committee of 
Congress and President Laurens, and his instructions to join the army under Washington, 
and it was doubtless this paper that was before the several writers mentioned. The 
statement is in the third person, but apparently by Steuben himself. Another testimonial 
is a letter from Richard Peters to Steuben, dated at Belmont Oct. 30, giving his recollec- 
tions of the understanding with the baron and his interpretation of it as "clearly an 
implied contract ". Peters was at the time secretary to the board of war. A third is a 
statement of John Witherspoon, dated at Princeton Nov. 1 : 

" I can recollect very distinctly that I was one of the Committee who waited on 
Baron Steuben on his arrival at York Town, he then could Speak no English and I 
believe I was the only Member of the Committee who could speak French and therefore 
was obliged to be his interpreter to the Other Members as well as to make the report t<> 
Congress. I am sensible that the above is a just and fair Account of what passed on the 
Occasion, and that we were All sensible the Barons proposials were Honorable and 
Generous and Accordingly he was sent to General Washington to receive his directions 
from him." (As this is a copy, certain peculiarities of spelling and capitalization are 
doubtless imputable only to the copyist.) 

Still another testimonial (without date) is from William Duer and is in part as follows : 

" T was a Member of Congress and of the board of War when the Baron de Steuben 
Arrived at York Town: and though I was not present at that Place, when the Baron 
had his first Interview with the Committee of Congress (being absent for a few days on 
a Visit to Manheim) I perfectly remember that the Account I received at my return to 
York Town of the Engagements entered into with the Baron Steuben by the Honorable 
Congress was perfectly Similar to that which the Baron has stated : that I conceived always 
that Congress having accepted of the Services of the Baron Steuben on the terms 
reported by their Committee, an Actual Contract existed between that officer, and tin- 
United States, by which the several States were in consequence of the Consent of their 
Delagates as firmly bound as if the same had been formally entered on the Journals of 
Congress." 

Concerning the action of Congress respecting Steuben at the time he offered his services 



November, 1785 261 

287. William Samuel Johnson to Stephen Mix Mitchell. 1 

D , r §, N York Novr. 23d 1785. 

Last Friday I forwarded you Mr Thompsons Letter acquaint'g me 
with the State of the Representation here and urging the Conn't Delegates 
to come on, which I hope you duly received. 2 The next Day I left Strat- 
ford and arrived here on Monday. Several Members arrived at the same 
time so that if I had had the pleasure of your company Congress might 
have opened yesterday, a single Member from either Connecticut, N. 
Hampshire or Georgia would have compleated seven States. Mr. Baldwin 
is however confidently expected in by this Evenings Stage so that Con- 
gress may proceed upon business tomorrow, 8 as it is of much Importance 
they sho'd do, there being forreign Letters of Consequence in Mr. Jays 
Office of which no notice can be taken till Congress commences. 4 But 
sho'd Mr. Baldwin arrive as expected this must by no means excuse you 
from coming on as soon as possible, because the Georgia Deligates will 
continue here but a few Days. I hope therefore if not already on yr. 
Journey when this reaches you that you will set out immediately and 
wishing you a prosperous Journey am with great regard 

288. The Maryland Delegates to the Assembly of Maryland. 1 

The Honorable the General Assembly, ' • / 5- 

At the request of the Delegates in Massachusetts we do ourselves the 

honor to inclose an act of that State for the regulation of navigation and 

see the Journals, Jan. 13, 14, Feb. 18, 1778, and these Letters, vol. III., pp. 35 n., 40, 77, 91, 
and vol. IV., pp. 160-162. 

On the same day on which Gerry's statement was written Hamilton wrote to Wash- 
ington : " The poor Baron is still soliciting Congress, and has every prospect of indigence 
before him. He has his imprudences ; but, upon the whole, he has rendered valuable 
services ; and his merits and the reputation of the country, alike, demand that he should 
not be left to suffer want. If there could be any mode by which your influence could be 
employed in his favor, by writing to your friends in Congress, or otherwise, the Baron 
and his friends would be under great obligations to you" {Letters to Washington, ed. 
Sparks, IV. 121 ; Hamilton's Works, 1850 ed., I. 428). Washington replied Dec. 11 {ibid., 
p. 429) : 

" I am sincerely concerned to find by your letter, that the Baron is again in straitened 
circumstances. I am much disinclined to ask favors of Congress ; but if I knew what the 
object of his wishes are, I should have much pleasure in rendering him any service in 
my power, with such members of that body as I now and then correspond with. I had 
flattered myself, from what was told me some time ago, that Congress had made a final 
settlement with the Baron much to his satisfaction." Cf. nos. 8, 120 (note 3), 233, ante. 
See further nos. 539, 545, 754, 856, post. 

It may not be inappropriate to record here that on May 9, 1786, Steuben purchased 
from Major James Fairlie a negro boy, and that William Hindman, the Maryland 
delegate, witnessed the transaction. See Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, part III., item 245. 

[287] x Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 109 (draft). 

2 Thomson's letter of Nov. 18, no. 281, ante. 

3 Following are the entries in Johnson's diary for Nov. 22 and 23 : " Novr. 22d. 

Went to Congress but found not a sufficient Number of Memb'rs . . . . ; 23d 

Congress formed Presidt. Hancock chosen Ramsey chairman " On the 24th, 25th, 

and 26th he was " at Congress ". 

4 See no. 281, ante, and no. 312, post. 

5 See no. 302, post. 

[288] * From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 



262 Continental Congress 

commerce. At the same time we think it our duty to subjoin some stric- 
tures thereon by the Secretary of Foreign Affairs contained in a report 
delivered to Congress on the 7 Octbr ulto. 2 .... 

With the most profound respect we have the honor to be your most 
obt. svts. 

James McHenry 
Wm. Hindman 



289. William Grayson to James Monroe. 1 

New York, 28th Xov. 1785. 
D'r Sir, 

I imagine long before this you have heard of the death of our worthy 
friend Mr. Hardy: he was hardly ever well after you left us; having 
been much troubled with fevers, till going to Haerlem heights on a party, he 
broke a blood vessel in coughing, and dyed the 17th of Octob. His death 
has giv'n me the greatest concern on account of the sincere friendship I 
had for him ; and I have been much embarrassed with his affairs since 
his death : his funeral has cost 385 doll's for which I am liable ; his funds 
being not equal to the paymt. of his private debts ; I have wrote particularly 
to the Governor thereon, to which I refer you, to request your assistance 
thereon, provided this finds you at Richmond; I shall be much pinched 2 
to pay the money if I am not relieved in time : With respect to your own 
affairs, I have done the best that it was in my power to do; by paying 
the importunate and giving fair words to the others. I have managed so 
that your credit has not suffered in the smallest degree. I inclosed you 
by last post, all the letters which have come to hand directed to you 
since your departure to the care of Genl. Weedon; a book referred to 
(I expect) in one of Mr. Jefferson's letters is now in my possession, 
having been delivered to me by Mr. Otto :) I now inclose you the journals 
of Congress complete, by which you will see what we have been about since 
you left us : Since the new Congress met, nothing has been done of any 
consequence, except the appointing of Hancock President, and D(\tr 

2 Concerning the Massachusetts act see nos. 181, 191, 198, 205, 209, ante. The 
report of the secretary for foreign affairs Oct. 7 is in the Journals, Oct. 10. It had it> 
origin in a memorial of some French merchants in Boston (Aubry, Dubois, and Company ) 
transmitted by Marbois to Jay Aug. 20, and by him laid before Congress Aug. 25. These 
documents, including Jay's report, are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 169-177. The 
French memorial bears the same date as Governor Bowdoin's circular letter, namely, 
July 38. The New Hampshire act. June 23, is in X. C. State A'.v.f.. XVII. 573 
resolution of the New Hampshire legislature Nov. 9 the president of the state was 
instructed " to write to the several executives in the union and request to know whether 
their Assemblies have, or are like to join with this State, and Massachusetts in their 
Commercial opposition to Great Britain? Whether they have impowered Congress to 
regulate Commerce, or have passed, or probably will pass Acts similar to those enacted 
by this and the Massachusetts State in June last, respecting the Navigation and Coram l 
(ibtd.. p. 572). President Langdon's letter of transmittal, Nov. 16, is ibid., p. 571 : *1 
Henry. Patrick Henry, III. 336. Shortly afterward (Nov. 29) Massachusetts repealed 
certain parts of her navigation act, and this repealing act was transmitted to the several 
states, with a circular letter. Dec. 9 (N. C. State Rccs.. XVI I. 592-593). 
[289]' Library of Congress, Monroe Papers. 
2 See nos. 256, 259, 262, 264, ante. 



November, 1785 263 

Ramsay, Chairman, untill his arrival ; some people think he will not come 
forward. 3 the business immed'y before them is whether Temple shall be 
recieved as Consul general from G. Brittain or not : I am inclined to 
think it will be carried in the affirmative, when the States come forward 
(there being but 7. at present on the floor) 4 as Congress have committed 
themselves by resolving that all Ministers Charges etc. at foreign Courts 
shall be Consuls genl. ex Officio : of course Adams is Consul genl. at the 
Court of G. B. 5 There is some important foreign intelligence but which 
I cannot communicate with't a cypher. Whether there is actually an 
Algerine war or not, is more than I can tell with certainty; the news 
comes authenticated from individuals in different parts ; but we have no 
official accts. about the matter : 6 they talk much about a new requisition 
already : and I hope you will inform yourself well about the State of our 
public accounts, also of the sentim'ts of the legislature respecting the last 
requisition as well as of the foederal buildings at Trenton. The latter is 
asleep for the present. Pray don't forget the situation of your collegues : 
and yourself, it is rather unworthy the State to deduct for absent time : 
the Members ought also to be allowed a hundred pounds a piece for house 
rent if the delegate expends so much, as to stowing them all together in 
a State house, I think it highly improper: though this I understand is. 
the idea in Pensylvany. I think it would be right that we should be paid 
our house rent for this year : you know it was very heavy upon us : . . . . 
I intend to decamp from this this week ; . . . . 

[P. S.] Doct'r Draper 7 is just arrived and informs me that Mr. H. 
Lee and Mr. Carrington are added to the old deleg'ts NB. no credentials 
are come on 

290. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 
Dear Sir, 

I am very busy preparing to decamp for Virginia, of course I shall 
not lay you under the trouble of reading a long letter from me this Post. 
There is one thing very singular in Adam's correspondence he is always 
pressing the necessity of commercial restrictions — says no treaty can be 
had without them, and yet he decidedly acknowledges, that in the prose- 
cution of this commercial war there is every reason to suppose we shall 
incur a real war: for says he nothing but the opinion they have of our 
strength and their weakness prevents it at present: for the nation is 
against us. There are still pro's and Con's here respecting the Algerine 
war — and not a word from Europe officially. 2 .... 

3 See no. 285, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Nov. 25, 30, Dec. 2, and nos. 290, 292, 293, 296, 300, post. 

5 Cf. nos. 195, 275, 280, ante, 293, 296, post. 

6 See nos. 281, 283, ante. 

7 Presumably Dr. George Draper. See no. 937, note 2, post. 
[290] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 280, ante. For references to recent letters of John Adams see no. 283, 
note 3, ante. A passage follows which is of the same purport (1. e., relative to the election 
of Hancock as President, and to the Temple affair) as the first included passage in the 
letter to Monroe (no. 289, ante). 



264 Continental Congress 

The inconvenience which Members of Congress have experienced here 
this last year from living at common boarding houses, and mixing with 
the landlady her Aunts cousins and acquaintances and with all other sorts 
of company has been complained of loudly ; We have not, I confess suffered 
in this way, though we have purchased the exemption at a dear rate to 
our purses ; we have had a house though a small one, and yet that same 
house has went deep into our allowances ; so that our dignity has almost 
eat up our finances. I understand some of the States mean to relieve their 
delegates from the weight of this inconvenience by establishing a kind of 
State house at the expence of such State ; Although I cannot help admiring 
the idea of doing something yet I think the plan of jumbling all together 
whether grave or gay married or single like Falstaff in the buck baskttt. 
heel to point, altogether improper: I should rather suppose (if the legis- 
lature gets into a merry mood,) that it would be better to allow each 
delegate a certain sum of money, provided he disburses the same in House 
rent: it is also supposed hard that a Member of Congress when he goes 
home to see his family should be put upon stoppages, I should hope no 
person would be appointed but would conscientiously discharge his duty 
to the State to the best of his judgment. 

[P. S.] You will please to consider what relates to Adams as altogether 
confidential. 

New York, 28th Nov. 1785. 

f P. P. S.] The affair of the negroes which has made so much noise in 
our house 8 is rather trifling. Negroes carried off from N. Y. Men 1,386, 
Women 954, Children 657, Total 2,997. 

291. John Hancock to the Secretary of Congress. 1 
~. Boston November 30th, 1785. 

I am reduc'd to the last moment of the Departure of the Post to 
Acknowledge the Receipt of your Letter of 23d inst. inclosing an Act 
of Congress appointing me their President; I feel myself exceedingly 
honour'd by this Appointment, and wish my Abilities were more equal 
to the complete execution of the Duties of that office, such as they arc 
they shall be employ 'd in the Service of my Country, and as soon as I 
can Arrange my Affairs here, I will proceed to New York ; I am not able 
to fix the precise time, but will undertake the Journey as speedily as 
possible, and by the next Post will write you more explicitly. 

I have the honor to be with Sentiments of Respect and Esteem, Sir 

Your most obedt. huml. servt. 
John Hancoc \ 

• That is, the Virginia House of Delegates. See, for instance, Madison to 
Washington Nov. n (Writings, II. 191). 

[agi] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, f. 43. 

* Although Hancock's letter arrived in New York Dec. 4 (see no. 297, post). 
because of the lack of a quorum it was not read in Congress until Dec. 27. See nos. 285, 
289, 290, ante, 292, 293, 296, 297, 301, 308, post. 



November, 1/83 265 

292. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York Novr. 30th, 1785. 2 
Sir, 

I have the hon'r to acknowledge the receipt of your Excell'ys letter of 
the 1 6th Instt. which came to hand the 27th with its enclosures, in con- 
sequence thereof I took my seat in Congress the following morning 3 
when I found the Wednesday preceeding seven states present, they pro- 
ceeded to the election of a president, and Mr. Hancock was chosen. 

In conformity to your directions I enclose a list of the states who have 
complied with the recommendations of Congress of the 30th April 1784 
respecting the regulation of trade. I also enclose a copy of a letter I 
received from Mr. Dowse our surveyor in the western country. 4 am 
sorry they would not proceed on the business of their appointment as it 
will protract the sale of the lands near another year. There is a report 
that the commissioners are going on with the treaty with the indians 
agreeable to their wishes. I am rather inclined to believe it is on foot, or 
before now they must have returned to this city. 

Mr. Temple is here from London, he came in a ship by whom Congress 
have received letters from Mr Adams of later dates, than I informed you 
of in my last. No account of Mr Lamb with the dispatches nor any 
prospect of reciprocal commerce. Mr Adams has had a long and free 
conversation with Mr. pitt respecting trade, and on giving up the posts 
agreeable to the treaty but nothing has been determined on as yet. 5 

I would beg leave to inform your Excellency that I expect to draw for 
money very soon, being considerably in debt to my friends here for the 
supply, I have had for some time past 

293. William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee. 1 

New York Nov. 30th 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have very little news to communicate Mr. Hancock is appointed 
President but it is much doubted whether he will accept of this high 

[292] iN. H. Arch., State Papers, Farmer Coll., X. 171; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 In the Journals under Nov. 30 it is noted that a letter of Edward Fox, com- 
missioner of hospital accounts, and also " a letter of November 28 from John Fox " 
were read. The second item is a letter of Edward Fox, transmitting his report on a 
letter of Dr. Jonathan Arnold (Feb. 5, 1781), which had been referred to him Sept. 9, 
and the first item is his report, which is a statement of the difficulties involved in settling 
Dr. Arnold's accounts. 

William Samuel Johnson's entry in his diary under Nov. 30 is " at Congress Dutch 

ambass'r " The latter entry probably means that the Dutch ambassador called on 

him. Nov. 28 and 29 Johnson records " No Congress " ; Dec. 1 and 2 " at Congress ". 
Thereafter he was absent until Dec. 15. See no. 302, post. 

3 See no. 277, ante. 

4 A copy of Edward Dowse's letter, dated " Camp at little Beaver Creek Oct. 16, 
1785," is in the Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr. 

5 Cf. nos. 289, 290, ante, 293, 296, 300, post. 
[293] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 



266 Continental Congress 

Office : 2 it was surely improper to play the risquing game on such an 
occasion : the business immed'y before Congress is whether Mr. Temple 
shall be received as Consul Genl. from G. B. or not; there are on this 
occasion different sentiments, though I presume when the States are fully 
represented (there being but seven at present) that it will be decided in 
the affirmative as Congress seem to have committed themselves, as they 
have resolved that the Ministers, and Charges des affaires of the U. S. 
are Consuls genl. ex Officio, of course Adams is Consul Genl. at the 
Court of G. B. As soon as the dispatches from the Secy, for foreign 
affairs arrives. Temple himself is in a peck of troubles about it; it seems 
a very good salary depends on the decision. 8 .... 



294. John Bayard to Samuel Bayard. 1 

New York Deer. 1st, 1785. 
My Dear Son, 

.... I find Congress opens a new scene of Action to me and candidly 
confess it requires greater abilities than I am possesed of to make a 
distinguished Appearance on that Floor 2 — there are several Gentlemen 

2 On the same day that Grayson was writing, Hancock despatched his letter of 
acceptance (no. 291, ante). See nos. 285, 289-202, ante, 296, 297, 301, 308, post. 

8 See no. 289, ante, and no. 296, post; also the Journals, Nov. 25, 30, Dec. 1. - 
[294] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 The credentials of John Bayard and Charles Pettit, Pennsylvania delegates were 
presented Nov. 23, the first day on which the New Congress was able to gather a quorum. 
Besides an extract from the minutes of the assembly, Nov. II, recording the names of 
all the delegates then elected, Bayard and Pettit presented individual commissions. 
Following are accounts rendered by two of the retiring delegates, David Jackson and 
Joseph Gardner (Gratz Coll., M. O. G, I. 7, I. 5, respectively) : 

" State of Pennsylvania in acct. with David Jackson. Dr. 
1785 
Novr. 4th To my wages as a delegate from the 21st of April last to this date 

inclusive being 198 days at 45/ £445 10 

To milage, having gone and returned three times between New York 
and Philada. during my service, as aforesaid, the distance being 
100 miles at 6d. in 3d. qr 15 

£460 10 

1785 Cr. 
Now. 4th Deduct for absent time vis from the 6th to the nth of August inclu- 
sive being six days at 45/ £13 H 

Deduct also from the 26th August to the 10th of Sept. inclusive 
being sixteen days at 45/ 36 

49 10 

Ballance due David Jackson £411 

460 10 
Errors excepted 

David Jackson " 

Beneath the account is the endorsement: " Ex'd and Settled Jno. Nicholson Comptr. 
Genls. Office Novr. 15th 1785"; on the back (also in Nicholson's writing) : "No 2423 



December, 1785 267 

who shine as speakers, particularly a Mr. Rufus King from Massechusets. 
He has a graceful Attitude, a fine flow of Words and in genral a thorough 
acquaintance of the Subject on wch He speaks — this gives him an unrival'd 
Influence, the Debates are conducted in general with great Decency and 
propriety and the Members treat each other with the utmost politeness, 
the greatest inconvenience is, that we have so many good speakers, each 
willing to display their Abilities on the Subject in debate that they are 
frequently lenthned out, and exhausted and become rather tiresome 

NB 



295. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular Office of Secretary of Congress, 

Deer. 3d, 1785. 
Sir, 

In conformity to the Act of the 17th August last, I have the honor to 
transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed a list of the States repre- 
sented and of the Members who appeared in Congress from the meeting 
thereof on the first Monday in November to the end of the Month. 2 The 
Journals for that time do not fill half a sheet, which is the reason why 
they are not printed and transmitted herewith. 

The Acco't of the Hon'ble David Jackson Esqr. Delegate of Congress Reed. Novr. 14th 
1785"; and below this, in the writing of John Armstrong, jr.: "Read and app'd and 
order drawn J. A." In the last debit line the words "in 3d qr." were inserted by 
Nicholson. 

" State of Pennsylvania in acct. with Jos Gardner Dr. 

To my attendance in Congress from the 10th of May to the 7th of Novr. 1785 at 

6 Dollars per Day 182 Days £409.10. 

To Mileage twice to and from New York 10. 

419.10 

Cr. 

By Sixteen days absence in May Visiting my family £36 

By Seven days absence in Septr. Visiting my family 15.15 

51-15 
Ballance due 367.15 

419.10 
Errors excepted 

Jos Gardner 
Philada. Deer. 12th, 1785." 

[Endorsed:] " Ex'd and Settled Jno. Nicholson Comptr. General's Office Deer. 13th 
1785" [and below:] "No. 2549 The Account of The Hon'ble Joseph Gardner Esqr. 
Delegate of Congress Order drawn J A" 

[295]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, XXXI. 16; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, 
no. 5686: N. J. State Lib.; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 14; N. C. 
State Recs., XVII. 590. 

2 The tabular statement of attendance Nov. 7 to 30 is with this letter in Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book; the statement for December, transmitted by Thomson Jan. 2, 
1786 (see List of Members, ante) is ibid. The November statement is also in N. C. 
State Recs., XVII. 591. These statements are appended to the List of Members, ante. 

24 



268 Continental Congress 

296. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, December 4th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I had the honor to write to you under date of the second of November, 
at which date the Congress of the last year was at the point of separation 
to make way for their successors. States sufficient to form a new Congress 
did not assemble until the 25th ultimo when they proceeded to the choice 
of a President, and Mr. Hancock although absent was elected, whether 
he will accept the appointment is uncertain.* 

Mr. Temple arrived here about ten days since, and having presented 
his commission, Congress on the 2d inst. passed an Act recognizing him 
as Consul General. 8 I inclose a copy of the Act which explains itself, 
and manifests what would be the opinion of Congress on the question in 
case no commercial treaty should take place between Great Britain and 
the United States. Perhaps the delays of the British ministry may operate 
more advantageously to the United States than those acts which now 
might be esteemed the most liberal and kind. You very well remember 
that Spain delayed Mr. Jay formerly as England now delays you. The 
event may be such in the latter case as it was in the former, and the United 
States hereafter may decline what they once solicited. Time is more 
favorable to young than to old nations; the states are more and more 
embracing the opinion that they must rely upon themselves rather than 
upon alliances or treaties with foreign nations: the navigation law of 
Massachusetts has been literally adopted by New Hampshire ; * Rhode 
Island has even gone beyond them; New York will probably follow their 
example: Pennsylvania has now a bill before their legislature, the heads 
whereof as printed in the Gazettes I enclose you ; Maryland will do some- 
thing, which will strengthen the common cause; South Carolina had a 
short session of their Legislature this Autumn, adjourned to meet in 
January having appointed a respectable committee to prepare a bill for 
the regulation of navigation and commerce. The rotation of members 
established by the confederation retained [returned ?] many old delegates 
to their respective states; these gentlemen having a more comprehensive 
knowledge of the affairs of the Confederacy, impressed with the import- 

La96] * Life of King, I. 114. 

* See nos. 285, 289-293, ante, 297, 301, 308, 326, 330, 348, post. 

8 See nos. 289, 292, 293, ante, 300, 313, 386, 558, post, also Adams to Jay Sept. 2, 
Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 473. Mrs. Hannah Thomson, wife of the secretary, 
writing Dec. 18 to John Mifflin jr., of the gayeties of life in New York, remarked: 
" There is a Mr. Temple and his lady arrived here from England he comes in character 
of a Consul but receives the Salary of a Minister. They are yet in Lodgings. They 
have taken a new large house in queen street, which I suppose Jonathan must have noticed 
in his walks that way. When they get to house keeping We shall see, What we shall see, 
Routs 3 times a week etcetera" (Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, 
Smith MSS., IX. 205). 

4 See no. 269, note 2, ante. King had not of course yet learned that on Nov. 29 
Massachusetts had in part repealed the act of June 23. The repealing act was printed 
in the Ntn York Paily Advertiser Jan. 3, 1786. For an explanation of the repeal see 
Bowdoin to Adams Jan. 12, 1786, in Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., VI. 84. 
See also Stephen Higginson to Adams Dec. 30, in Am. Hist. Assoc., Annual Report, 
1896, vol. I., p. 725- 



December, 1785 269 

ance of a more close union between the states and a greater uniformity in 
their laws as they affect foreign powers, will not only exert themselves 
to produce these desirable objects, but probably will have considerable 
influence in bringing them forth. The merchants throughout all the 
states are agreed; they urge the necessity of commercial regulations, and 
the sessions of the several legislatures during the winter will be employed 
on this subject. The opening of the Budget of the British Minister will 
not be more important to the Nation than the Acts which the states may 
probably pass during the winter will be to the United States. 

.... The letters you wrote to Mr. Jay in August and September, 
were very satisfactory to Congress, contained much valuable information 
and by their timely arrival I hope will produce good effects in the 
Southern States. 5 

Mr. Gerry who has not yet left me for home, presents his most affec- 
tionate regards to you ; some private concerns detain him here for a short 
time, and I thereby enjoy his good society longer than I expected. 



297. Rufus King to John Hancock. 1 

New York 4th Dec. 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

It was with very sincere pleasure I this day received yours of the 30th 
ult. which declares your acceptance of the chair of congress, 2 and I entreat 
you to be assured, that this pleasure was not a little increased, by the 
expectation you have given me leave to entertain, that Mrs. Hancock 
will be with you during your residence here. In consequence of some 
Doubts expressed in your Letter, I have this Evening made enquiry, con- 
cerning the Situation of the House and furniture, of the President's 
family ; the House is good, and although the Furniture is not such as it 
should be, it will be within your direction at the public charge, to make 

5 See no. 283, note 3, ante. 
[297] x Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Charles Francis Jenkins of Philadelphia. 

2 Hancock's letter is in Life of King, I. 114. His letter of acceptance, of the 
same date, is no. 291, ante. Elbridge Gerry, then in New York, wrote to Governor 
Bowdoin Dec. 6 : "I am out of the executive line of foederal politicks, but considering 
myself as an half-pay statesman, have a right to speculate in them on some occasions. 
What gives birth to the letter is, information from Massachusetts that the election of 
Mr. Hancock to the chair of Congress is considered there by the friends of the present 
administration of the Commonwealth as a measure opposed to the interest thereof. 
Whether this opinion is well founded or not, I will not undertake to determine, neither 
can I take upon myself any of the merit or demerit of the measure itself, but having some 
suspicion that those who are opposed to that administration would wish to create 
jealousies between it and the delegates of the State now in Congress, I think it but a 
friendly part to your Excellency to prevent if possible such consequences. Mr. King I 
am very intimately acquainted with, and his attachment to your Excellency, in your 
public and in your private capacity, the former of which he has grounded on your publick 
administration and the latter on your well known character, is not to be disputed; 
altho he is too independent and liberal in his sentiments to inlist in a party and adopt 
all their measures, proper or improper. Mr. Dane I am not so well acquainted with, but 
from conversing with him, have every reason to suppose that he is so well satisfied with 
the present arrangement as most seriously to wish a continuance thereof. I am very sure 
that you cannot misplace confidence in the former and that you cannot have anything to 
apprehend from the latter." Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., VI. 83. 



270 Continental Congress 

such dispositions and amendments as may be convenient. The Servants, 
carriage, Horses etca. of the late president are retained, and wait your 
coming; the carriage is very ordinary, but every arrangement relative to 
the Household may be effected on your arrival here, and without any 
inconvenience. 

In great haste, but with perfect consideration and respect. I have the 
honor to be, Dear Sir, 

Your very humb'e sent. 

Rufus King 

P. S. I believe that it was after you left Congress, that the present plan 
of supporting the Household of the president was adopted — a steward 
is appointed by Congress, who conducts the whole business of the house- 
hold, under direction of the President; and the President draws on 
the Treasury for the necessary monies to defray the stewards Demands. 

His Excell'y Mr. Hancock 



298. Charles Pettit to John Nicholson. 1 

New York 4th December 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been favoured with your Letter of the 29th ult. but have not 
yet had Time to have any Conversation with the Comm'rs of the Treasury 
on the Subject you mention. 

Whatever the Letter of the several Resolutions of Congress may 
import, or whatever strained Construction they may be liable to, in order 
to favour some States at the Expence of others, the Idea of fair and 
substantial Justice must be kept in view, and must be the Rule by which 
all such Cases must be determined. Every Idea of tricking and catching 
at little Advantages arising from Circumstances not forseen at the rime 
of the Contract, is unworthy of a State or Nation, whose fundamental 
Maxim in Negociations, especially in Money-matters, should always be 
that Honesty is the best Policy. I apprehend no Difficulty, therefore, in 
the Adjustment of this Matter. I would never higgle for Trifles in State 
Affairs where the Line of Justice is doubtful; but where it is plain and 
evident, it must prevail among States who mean to be happy. The Pro- 
portions between Specie and Facilities must be preserved alike in all the 
States. If the other States will pay up in Specie to our Mark on the 31st 
of December 1783 and strike the Proportion of Facilities on the Residue 
only, we shall be ready to meet them on that Ground; but if they do not 
come up to our Mark, we must resort to theirs for a Rule. We can easily 
resort to any Rule that is founded in Justice and Equality — and some 
such Rule we must be governed by. Another Requisition must soon be 
framed, and in doing that we can adjust the Matter, if not before. 

• Sec no. 285, note 2, ante ; cf. no. 301, post. 
[298] • Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, "John Nicholson Esquire. 
Comptroller General Philadelphia Free C. Pettit"). 



December, 1785 271 

I am about an Enquiry in which I wish to be informed of the Annual 
Expenditures of our State under the Head of supporting Government — 
I mean such Expenditures as are made out of the Public Treasury exclu- 
sive of the Pay of Officers who draw their Support from Fees and 
Perquisites which form no part of the public Account, Such as 

Salaries — mentioning each Officer by Title and his Salary, separately 
Pay of the Council — the Amount for one Year, and their Servants or 

Officers 
Pay of the Assembly — the Amt. for one Year and their Servants, with 

the Contingent Expences of both for Fire etc. 
Contingencies — Rewards for apprehending Robbers etc. and such other 

annual Expences as are incident to supporting the Dignity of 

Government 

I thought of extracting this from your Book of the Treasurers accounts, 
but I find several of the Articles, and the Accounts of different years so 
blended that I cannot do it satisfactorily. I imagine you can give me 
what I want with ease as well as accuracy. Pray send me such a Statement 
as early as may be. If any Articles should occur which may raise a Doubt 
whether it comes within my Description or not, it may be best to insert it. I 
can more easily strike out what may be redundant than supply what may 
be deficient. 2 

I have had some Account of the Scheme of Finance promulged in the 
Comm'ee of Ways and Means. I learn it is to be printed and wish to see 
it. Pray procure and send me a Copy 

299. The Secretary of Congress to William Churchill Houston. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
<-.. December 5th, 1785. 

The late Contractors for the moving Army having Stated to Congress 
in a memorial that they have sustained loss and damage from the late 
superintendant of finance having failed to make good the stipulated pay- 
ments, and from his withdrawing the Contract, Congress on the 27th 
May last were pleased to Resolve, " that J D Mercier William Malcolm 
and Isaac Roosevelt esquires, having made oath that they will faithfully 
discharge this trust, be authorised to enquire into the particulars, and to 
determine what damages, if any, have been sustained by Tench Francis, 
Comfort Sands, and others late Contractors for the moving Army, from 
the late superintendant of finance having failed to make good the stipu- 
lated payments or from his withdrawing the Contract, and make report 
to Congress." 

2 Nicholson's inquiry evidently concerned some question respecting the adjustment 
of state accounts. On Nov. 5 Nicholson had made a report to President Franklin on the 
state of the quotas of Pennsylvania in the existing requisitions of Congress, etc. (Pa. Arch., 
first ser., X. 529-531). On Nov. 26 Thomas FitzSimons, in behalf of a committee of the 
assembly, had addressed to Nicholson a request for information respecting the Pennsyl- 
vania civil list (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C). See also nos. 303, 310, post. 
[299] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 15. 



272 Continental Congress 

The gentlemen above named being desirous that two more should be 
added, Congress were pleased on the 4th of November to Resolve " that 
the Secretary of Congress, be and hereby is authorised in Conjunction 
with Walter Livingston and Comfort Sands and their associates to agree 
upon and appoint two disinterested referees, to be added to those hereto- 
fore appointed to decide certain Controversies between the United States 
and the said Walter Livingston and Comfort Sands and their associates 
who or a Majority of whom shall be competent to report their opinion 
to Congress." 

In obedience to this order I have had a meeting with the Contractors 
and we have mutually agreed upon you and Mr. Banker of New York to 
be added to those heretofore appointed. I must therefore request your 
acceptance of this duty, as I am confident you will thereby do an accept- 
able service both to Congress and the parties concerned. It will be very 
agreeable if you can come forward soon. If you could make it convenient 
to come by the middle of this month you will meet with no delay and it 
is hoped you will be able to come to a speedy decision. But as two of the 
Gentlemen are of the Legislature of this State which meets on the 6th 
of January they may possibly not be able to give close attendance during 
the session. 2 

300. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

<-.. New York 5th Deer. 1785. 

In pursuance of the full powers of the states of Massachusetts and 
New York, congress on the 2d instant proceeded to the choice of three 
commissioners to run the eastern boundary line of the state of New York 
adjoining to Massachusetts, and Mr. Hutchins Geographer of the United 

2 A committee on the memorial of the contractors (Tench Francis, Comfort 
Sands, and others) was appointed Feb. 28 and made a report Apr. 5, but no action api 
to have been taken on the report. On Apr. 29 the matter was referred to a renewed 
committee, who, on May 13, brought in a report, which was adopted May 27, as mentioned 
by Thomson. On June 13 a further memorial from Comfort and Joshua Sands, relative 
to the contract supplying the garrison at West Point, was referred to a committee, 
who proposed, June 14, a resolve in the same terms as that of May 27. This was 
adopted June 27. On Aug. 16 requests from Roosevelt, Mercier, and Malcom, from 
Tench Francis and others, from Comfort Sands and others, and from Walter Livingston 
and Comfort Sands, for the appointment of two additional commissioners, were laid 
before Congress and referred to a committee. The committee's recommendation, which 
does not appear to have been brought forward until Oct. 31, was for the appointment of 
Abram Lott and Gerard Bancker ; but on Nov. 4, apparently on the motion of Rufus King, 
the secretary of Congress, in conjunction with the contractors, was authorized to 
appoint the two additional commissioners. Houston presumably declined, for on Aufl 
1786, Thomson wrote to Elbridge Gerry a letter identical with this through the third 
paragraph, including the statement, " we have mutually agreed upon you and Mr. Banker 
of New York to be added to those appointed ". The letter to Gerry concludes as foil- 
" I hope it will be convenient for you to attend to this matter and am confident you will 
thereby do an acceptable service both to Congress and the parties concerned. As all the 
other Gentlemen are in this town whenever it suits you to attend they will be ready to 
meet you and enter upon the business" (Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, 
p. 80). Gerry in turn declined. See nos. 476, 733, post. 

[300] 1 Boston Pub. Lib.. Chamberlain Coll., C. 12:49 (in the writing of Rufus King and 
signed by King and Dane). 



December, 1785 273 

States, Mr. Rittenhouse, and Doctor Ewing of Pensylvania were elected. 2 
We forbear making any observations concerning the time of running 
this line, or the propriety of some persons attending the commissioners, 
on the part of the state, when the same is run, every consideration of 
this nature being properly within the authority of the supreme executive 
of the State. 

Mr. Secretary Thomson will officially transmit the act of Congress of 
the second instant recognizing Mr. Temple as consul General from his 
Britannic majesty; This Recognition differs from that used in the case of 
a Consul received under a Treaty of commerce, and the issueing an 
exequatur by the several Executives will be unnecessary. 3 

301. Charles Thomson to John Mifflin, jr. 1 

New York Dec 8th 1785. 
My correspondent J M must not think that his letters are not agreeable 
because not answered by every post. The mornings are now so very short, 
that I can scarcely get thro' the bustle of the Family before Mrs. T. 
appears. When Mr. Hancock arrives — he is expected next week — and 
accepts the honor conferred on him, and when they get a full Congress 
I expect my mornings will grow longer 

302. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

^ «. Wethersfield Deer. 10th. 178^. 

Dear Sir, ' ° 

On Wednesday Evening last my Neighbour Mr. Deming arrived with 
your message and found me labouring under a severe fit of Cholic, which 
held two Days, from which I'm nearly recovered ; I intended e'er this to 
have been on my way to New York, but have not been able to procure 
any money from the public. Since I reed, your message by Mr. Deming 
have reed, from you the letter of Mr. C. Thompson and another from 
Mr. Ab'm Baldwin of like import. My Illness has prevented my making 
the necessary preparations for setting out so early as expected, but intend 
to come on the week after next and if the public should not furnish money, 
to supply myself from my own Resources for a short Tour. The State 
will have no reason to complain of the Tardiness of their Delegates in 
proceeding, unless they require Brick without Straw. Hope you will 
encorage Mr. Sturgiss to go on this winter altho' he should stay but a 
short time, he will be very agreable Company for us and he may fly 
backwards and forwards as the Courts in your County require, his Scitu- 

2 Cf. nos. 205, 216, 271, ante, 315, 460, 549, post. A letter from the New York 
delegates' to the boundary commissioners Dec. 9 (copy unsigned), a letter from the dele- 
gates (Laurance, Smith, and Haring) to Governor Clinton Dec. 26, relative to the 
commission, and one from the delegates to Clinton Dec. 30, transmitting copy of the letter 
of Dec. 9 to the commissioners, were in N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, nos. 5688 C, 
5688 A, and 5689 A, respectively. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 25, 30, Dec. 1, 2; cf. nos. 290, 293, 296, ante, 313, 386, 558, 
post. Thomson's circular letter of notification is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 589. 

[301] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Smith MSS., vol. IX. 
[302] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers (addressed to Johnson at Stratford). 



274 Continental Congress 

ation being so near the Seat of Congress, hope you will not lose patience 
at my long Tarry, tis my loss not your's, since tis on my part only, that 
advantage can be had from our being Collegues together and you will 
not call me a parasite when I assure you that tis no small Inducement to 
me, to make all the Speed I can, to think I am to be introduced to so 
august a body as Congress by such a Collegue. 2 

303. Charles Pettit to John Nicholson ( ?). x 

„ ~. New York 14th Decem'r 1785. 

Dear Sir, * ' J 

Your Letter of the 7th Instant came to Hand by Post on the 1 2th. I 

put it into the Hands of Mr. Secretary Thomson with a Request that he 

would furnish me with the necessary Documents to comply with your 

Desire. He has since given me the inclosed Paper which he thinks will 

be sufficient. If it be not, you will be pleased to describe what farther you 

may desire and I will endeavour to obtain it. 

The Leisure afforded by the Want of States in Congress, has made 

me more industrious than I otherwise should have been, so that instead 

of being at Leisure myself I have been more than usually laborious. I 

mention this as an excuse for making my Letter short ; tho' it is as long 

as the * Cary-Note, to which it is an Answer, deserves. 

I am with Regard, D'r Sir, 

Your most hum'l Servant 

Chas. Pettit 

* If you are at a Loss for the meaning of this Cant Expression, enquire 
for Sampson Cary's stile of writing Letters, who formerly lived at Bristol 
in Pensylvania. 

304. David Ramsav to Benjamin Rush. 1 

.. „. New-York Deer. 14th 178=;. 

Dear Str, 

Yours of the 14th is now before me. Many thanks for your friendly 
congratulations on the present station which I hold. They are sincere 
and therefore as acceptable as though the occasion was of much greater 
consequence. 2 

I flatter myself that Continental credit is in a convalescent State. Vir- 
ginia I hear has passed the requisition. The only States we have now to 
fear are Georgia and North Carolina. This State we have good rea 

2 See no. 2%7 X ante. Rufus King wrote to John Adams Dec. 10: "Mr. Hancock 
has accepted as President of Congress and will be here in a few days. Seven States have 
been represented for a few days only since November commenced ; six states only arc 
now represented. I enclose a list of the names of the delegates." N. Y. Hist. Soc., King 
Papers; Life of King, I. 117 (except the last sentence). 

[303] ' Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

L304] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 

2 In the absence of President-elect Hancock Ramsay was chosen chairman of 
Congress (Nov. 23). As the President's attendance was delayed because of illness Ramsay 
continued as chairman until May 15, 1786, when he was succeeded by Nathaniel Gorham 
of Massachusetts. On June 6, 1786, Gorham was elected President. 



December, 1785 275 

to beleive will pass the five per cent impost. If the requisition and the 
impost both operate they will have an immediate effect on public 
securities 

305. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

. New York 17. Deer. 1785. 2 

I left home the 22 Nov. and arrived at this place the 6 Deer, by way 
of Providence and Newport. Am now at lodgings in the same house with 
Col. Long. I had a little touch of the gout since my arrival : but am 
better. I mourn sincerely for Genl. Whipple, tho' the news of his death 
was not unexpected. 3 I shall enclose you a paper, and whenever anything 
interesting shall occur shall do myself the honour to write. President 
Hancock is expected from Boston soon. 

306. John Sitgreaves to the Speaker of the North Carolina 

House of Commons (Richard Dobbs Spaight). 1 

To the Hon'ble the Speaker of the House of Commons 

Sir, 

In obedience to the Resolution of the General Assembly of the 7th 
Instant which was this day handed me I have inclosed my Account with 
the State as a Delegate. 

I have the Honor to be 

your most Obt. Hum'l Servt. 

Jno. Sitgreaves 
New Bern 17th Decem'r 1785. 2 

[305] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., John Langdon Papers, no. 189. 

2 The entries in William Samuel Johnson's diary Dec. 15 to 21 record " No 
Congress". His weather record runs: 17th "Very Rainy", 18th to 21st "Very Fine". 

3 William Whipple, member of Congress 1776-1779, signer of the Declaration of 
Independence, died Nov. 28. 

[306] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 The letter bears the following endorsement : " Acco't of the Hon'bl John 
Sitgreaves Esqr. as Delegate In the House of Commons 22 Deer. 1785 read and 
referred to the Com'ee on the Acco'ts of the Hon'bl Richard D Spaight By order J Hunt 
Clk E'nt'd in a/c FL." Sitgreaves' account, found with this letter, follows : 

" Dr. The State of North Carolina in Account with John Sitgreaves 
June 1784 To my attendance in Congress as a Delegate of the State from the 

14th Novr. 1784 untill the 12th of May 1785, 6 months, at 8o£ £480 
Travelling to and from Congress 2 Months, at 8o£ £160 

Cr. _ £640 

By Warrants received from His Excellency the Governor £640 

Errors Excepted 

Jno. Sitgreaves 
New Bern 17th. Decem'r, 1785. 
[Endorsed:] Mr. Sitgreaves Acct. In H. Com. 20th Dec. read." 

See Journal of the House of Commons, Dec. 20, 22, 1785, in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 
369, 379. The account of Hugh Williamson was presented Dec. 22 {ibid., p. 379). Cf. 
no. 146, ante. 



276 Continental Congress 

307. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York Deer. 19th, 1785. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform your Excellency that your several letters 
to the Governors of the southern States are gone forward agreeable to 
your directions. I wish they may effect the purpose of their intention. 2 

In my letter of the 30th ult 8 I wrote your Excellency that I should 
be obliged to draw for some money very soon for my necessary expendi- 
tures and in order to lay a foundation for said draught would inform 
your Excellency that the pay for my services in Congress up to the 7th 
instant amounts agreeable to the vote of the honorable general court to 
five hundred and forty seven pounds, ten shillings being for three hun- 
dred and sixty five days at thirty shillings per day, and that I have 
received one hundred and twenty pounds for his Excellency President 
Weare's draught on the honorable treasurer, and ninety pounds eleven 
shillings and eight pence, which Mr Gilman was kind enough to advance 
since I have been here, which leaves a ballance due to me sd. time of 
three hundred thirty six pounds eighteen shillings and four pence. 
I shall draw my bills on my son Georg[e] Long shall be obliged to your 
Excellency to deliver the order to him that he may be prepared for pay- 
ment when said bills come to hand. 

The honorable Judge Livermore is here, he write [s] you this post. 

[P. S.] 21st I have this day received your Excellency's letters for Mr. 
Jefferson and Mess. Fairholme and Luther, they shall be forwarded 
agreeable to your directions. 

308. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, Deer. 19, 1785. 
Dear Sir, 

I arriv'd last night and found only six States present. Mr. Hancock 
we hear is on the road and will be with us in a few days. He accepts the 
chair. The conduct of the legislature in complying with the requisition 
of congress, in the opinion of all here, does the highest honor to the 
State, and at the same time that it evinces a regard for publick justice and 

[307] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 Such a letter, dated Nov. 16, is in N. C. State Recs., XVII. 571. It was 
accompanied (ibid., pp. 572-576) by the New Hampshire act of June 23 respecting naviga- 
tion and commerce (see nos. 269, 296, ante), and a vote the House of Representatives 
Nov. 9, desiring the president " to write to the several executives in the union and 
request to know whether their Assemblies have, or are like to join with this State, and 
Massachusetts in their Commercial opposition to Great Britain? Whether they have 
impowered Congress to regulate Commerce, or have passed, or probably will pass Acts 
similar to those enacted by this and the Massachusetts State, in June last, respecting 
the Navigation and Commerce". 

3 No. 292, ante. 

[308] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 108; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, I. 471. 



December, 1785 277 

a mind superior to little resentments, gives an additional assurance of 
the strength and permanence of the federal government. We earnestly 
wish to have the result of the deliberations of the house upon the com- 
merc'l propositions. 

I find the most enlighten'd members here fully impress'd with the 
expedience of putting an end to the dismemberment of the old States, 
doubtful of the propriety of admiting a single new one into the con- 
fideracy, and well inclined to a revision of the compact between the U. S. 
and Virga. respecting the division of the country beyond the Ohio. 2 .... 

309. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, Deer. 26, 1785. 2 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 9th reach'd me a few days since, mine by the last 
post advis'd you of my arrival here; still I am with out a colleague and 
the representation of the States, the same. 3 I am perfectly satisfied that 
the more fully the subject is investigated, and the better the interests of 
the States severally are understood, the more obvious will appear the 
necessity of commiting to the U. S. permanently the power of regulating 
their trade. Whether it will be expedient to accept it for a limited time 
only it is difficult to determine. If it is expedient for a day, while the 
states bear the relation .they now do to each other and to other powers, 
or rather while they adjoin each other and are bounded by the ocean, it 
will still be so. whether then will it be expedient to avail ourselves of the 
present disposition so far only as to try an experiment, the success of 
wh., as such, must depend upon a variety of circumstances, or to delay 
any remedy untill under the pressure of the present difficulties it may be 
made complete ? As an experiment in what light will it be conceiv'd and 
how treated by foreign powers? Will they not all wish to defeat it and 
of course avoid those stipulations in our favor wh. may hereafter furnish 
arguments for its renewal? We may with propriety also take into the 
consideration the diversity of interest wh. will arise in the admission of 
western states into the confideracy. In a govt, also so fluctuating there 
will never be energy or calculation on it either at home or abroad, every 
thing will be in a state of incertainty. The States severally will be at a 
loss how to act under it (in their respective delegations) ; they will fear 

2 Cf. nos. 273, 275, ante, 309, 315, post. 
[309] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 109; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, I. 475 (parts). 

2 Under the dates Dec. 22 to 26 William Samuel Johnson has in his diary the 
following entries : " 22d. Dark and Drizley. No Congress ; 23d. Very fine. No Congress ; 
24th. Snow storm Do. ; . . . . 26th. Very Cold No Congress." The 25th was Sunday. 

3 See no. 308, ante. Madison's letter of Dec. 9 is in Writings, II. 201. In a 
letter of the same date to Washington (ibid., p. 196) Madison discusses at some length 
the question of vesting Congress with power to regulate commerce. Some notes of a 
speech on the subject by Madison in the Virginia House of Delegates are ibid., p. 194. 
See also Madison to Jefferson Oct. 3 and to Washington Nov. n (ibid., pp. 178, 191). 
The commercial propositions introduced into the Virginia House of Delegates Nov. 14 
are in an appendix to the Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks), IX. 507; cf. nos. 194-196, 
ante, 312, 315, post. 



278 Continental Congress 

to take those decisive measures with respect to other powers, wh. might 
be necessary, least their vigorous operation may prevent its renewal, but 
whether these or any other considerations, may be of sufficient weight 
to induce us to seek only a permanent change, is what I have not absolutely 
determined on. I beg of you to give me your sentiments thereon as well 
as of the course you think I may with propriety take here, provided the 
state sho'd confide it only for a limited time. Some dispatches have 
lately been reed, from [Adams]. 4 They are as we expected they wd. be. 
[Pitt] admits that the [removal of the negroes] is a [violation of the 
treaty], that when the [number] is [ascertained] they must [pay for 
them]. That they will take up the subject of [the posts] with that of the 
[debts]. Yet he says that the [whole nation] are [hostile to us]. That 
they will give us no [commercial treaty]. That they have sent [out Sir 
J. Johnson] for [Canada] with [entrenching tools] etc. 5 This is the 
amt. of what we have, nor can I well determine how you sho'd act under 
it. If it be practicable to carry into effect, a complete complyance on our 
part, let their conduct be as it may, I sho'd not hesitate to adopt it. but 
if this is not the case, I cannot well conceive the advantage of a partial 
complyance, or the paym't by instalment, as hath been heretofore propos'd. 
If they mean to quarrell their ground for it will be equally justifiable, in 
that instance, as in an absolute failure, and if the end we seek, is to 
be obtain'd by further negotiation, or by bargain of one for the other, by 
this measure we lose the consideration we sho'd have to give for it. In 
all the measures of this country toward us we perceive not only the utmost 
vigilance and attention to their own interest in opposition to ours, but a 
disposition to seek opportunities to injure us. they restrict us most severely 
in commerce, give land, and provisions to our fishermen to settle within 
their bounds, and we have too much reason to suspect that they encourage 
the Algerines to attack us. In this situation to whom may we look for 
assistance even ag'nst these pirates. The monopoly of the trade of the 
Medeteranean is in the hands of France, Britain and the Netherlands : 
will they or either of them, give up this advantage, for our convenience 
for nothing. Is it not strange in this situation that we sho'd be disputing 
whether we shall act together or cement and strengthen the union. 

There hath been a newspaper controversy here between Mr. Jay and 
Mr. Littlepage of our State, upon some subject of a private nature be- 
tween them. As I have not read their publications I am unacquainted 
with the merit of either party. It is however to be lamented that Mr. Jay 
enter'd into a controversy of the kind, since his character is too well 
establish'd to be call'd in question upon any unimportant or trivial occa- 
sion. 8 Be so kind as give no intimation to any one except Mr. Jones, of 
the contents of what I have wrote you in cypher. 

4 Bracketed words are written in cipher. The word "hostile" (below) is not 
correctly enciphered, but was evidently intended. In Monroe's Writings the ciphers remain 
untranslated. 

6 The reference is chiefly to Adams's letter of Aug. 25, although the statement 
respecting Sir John Johnson is drawn from Adams's letter of Aug. 30 (Works, VIII. 
302, 310; Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 455, 467). 

• Lewis Littlepage, who had lived for some time in Jay's household when the 
latter was minister to Spain, published in the New York Daily Advertiser of Dec. 6, 1785, a 



December, 1785 279 

P. S. Is the revenue law in any respect chang'd — are the facilities of 
other states admissible in payment of taxes, or rather is it accomodated 
to all the purposes of the requisitions ? our ministers are taking measures 
with the regencies of Algiers etc. It is sd. that Mr. Consul Barclay, and 
a Mr. Lamb and Majr. Franks are sent to these different powers for 
this purpose, but the latter I think is not confirm'd by our official 
communication. 



310. Charles Pettit to John Nicholson. 1 

New York 27th Deer. 1785. 2 
Dear Sir, 

.... My Friends in Philadelphia have been so kindly communicative 
that the Plan of a Report you sent me was not entirely new to me. I 
think it on the whole a Work of great Merit, and yet I have ventured to 
suggest some Corrections as proper 

I observe a difference of 30,000 Dollars in one of the Estimates 
between this Plan of a Report, and that formed by Mr. Morris. I believe 
it is in the Quantity of Paper of June 1780 in the Loan Office, but I 
am not certain and I have not the Plan now at Hand to recur to. As I 
presume you furnished the Estimates for both Plans, and that you have 
examined both, I doubt not you have observed the Difference I allude to, 
and can tell me which is right in that particular. 3 

letter to Jay, dated Dec. 4, severely denunciatory in character but concerning in the 
main their private relations. To this Jay replied at length through the medium of the 
same paper on the following day. Some part of the correspondence, together with 
subsequent letters from Jay to Jefferson and John Adams and their replies, is found in 
Jay, Life of Jay, I. 204-229. Jefferson's reply, Jan. 25, 1786, is also in Correspondence of 
Jay, III. 181, and in Writings, IV. 186 (see also Jefferson to Dr. James Currie, Jan. 18, 
ibid., p. 131). Adams's reply, Feb. 14, is in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 564. The 
correspondence was shortly afterward published in a pamphlet (New York, Francis 
Childs), and later in the same year was republished, with additions (New York, Eleazer 
Oswald). Again in 1787 The Whole Correspondence, with further additions, was published 
(Philadelphia, Carey). See Evans, Am. Bibl., vol. VII., nos. 19735, 19736, 20430. In the 
Journals, Nov. 30 (p. 895), is mentioned a letter from Littlepage transmitted by Jay 
Nov. 26. That letter (dated Nov. 25) has not been found, but related letters of Nov. 30 
and Dec. 1 are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., ff. 685, 681, respectively. From 
Warsaw June 3, 1786, Littlepage addressed a letter to the President of Congress, stating 
that before his departure from America he had withdrawn his petition of Nov. 25 and now 
asked for the return of his letters or attested copies of them. The letter is endorsed: 
" Read Feby. 3d 1786 [1787] Referred to the Secy, of Congress to take order in delivering 
the copies herein mentioned to any person applying in behalf of Mr. Littlepage." See 
no. 358, post. Upon his departure for Europe Littlepage carried with him a letter of 
introduction from Baron Steuben to Prince Henry of Prussia (Kapp, Life of Steuben, 
p. 695; Am. Hist. Rev., XVII. 45). Touching other episodes in his career, see Jefferson 
to Governor Henry Jan. 24, 1786 {Writings, IV. 134), and Jefferson to Madison July 31, 
1788 (ibid., V. 43). 

[3 10] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " John Nicholson Esquire Comptroller Genl. Philadelphia Free 
C. Pettit"). 

2 William Samuel Johnson's diary entries Dec. 27 and 28 are : " 27th Moderate. 

Congress repres[e]n[te]d ; 28th Extr'y Cold, and W. at Congress " " W." 

probably means zvindy, not wet, for no rain is noted until the 30th. He was " at Congress " 
also the 29th, 30th, and 31st. 

3 See no. 208, ante. 



280 Continental Congress 

The Civil List of the State runs higher than I had supposed, but I 
believe it is not higher than the Facts will warrant except in the Article 
of the Pay of Delegates which I imagine will fall rather below the 
Estimate. But I am told Deductions are under Consideration which are 
intended to lop off six or eight thousand Pounds. The House of Assembly 
are, or ought to be, the best Judges of what they will allow the public 
Servants they employ, and as they propose to reduce their own Pay as 
well as that of others, it would seem that they aim at disinterested patriot- 
ism. I wish it may prove to be so; but I do not always consider the 
sparing of Money, either public or private, as good Oeconomy. My Idea 
of Oeconomy is rather the Expending of Money properly than the saving 
of it improperly — or in other Words, the laying out of what our Neces- 
sities and Conveniences require should be expended, to the best Advantage 
and to proper Effect. It is better Oeconomy to pay handsomely for con- 
ducting and manageing our Affairs well, than to have them ill conducted 
and ill managed without pay. 

311. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

<-,. New York, Decern. 31, 1785. 

We think it our duty to communicate to your Excellency and the 
Honorable Council the intelligence we have this day received from his 
Excellency, Governor Clinton, which is, 

That he has been informed of undoubted authority, that a large quan- 
tity of powder and lead has lately been purchased and lodged at FishkUn 
with a view of transporting it to the Susquehanna. 

That the quantity vastly exceeds what is necessary for the peaceable 
and ordinary consumption of the country, and that there remains no doubt 
of its being intended during the course of this winter to be transported to 
Wyoming. The Governor is not at liberty to give us the name of 
informants, but assures us we may depend upon the truth of his informa- 
tion, and, added — had we not been here as Representatives of the state, 
he should have thought it his duty to have given Your Excellency the 
above information. 

We have not yet been favoured with the act passed by our Assembly 
respecting the settlers at Wyoming, but doubt not of the wisdom and 
propriety of it. 

We wish only to suggest the necessity of the state being well informed 
with respect to the views of these deluded people, and suggest the pro- 
priety of Council directing us to employ a proper person or persons, to 
watch the movements of these stores, and give the earliest intelligence 
thereof to Government. 

We shall carefully attend to your Excellency and Council's directions 
on this and every other business, you may see proper to charge us with,* 

[311] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 456 (signed by Bayard and Pettit). 

2 See the reply of idem Charles Kiddle, Jan. 6, 1786, also Secretary John 

Armstrong, jr., to Alexander Patterson, Jan. 12 (ibid., p. 457). On Dec. 28 the Pennsyl- 



January, 1786 281 

312. Nathan Dane to Edward Pullen. 1 

New York, Jany 8, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Since my arrival here Congress has done but little business 
there being only seven States assembled at any time, which you know 
are unequal to the great objects of the Confederacy, and a considerable 
part of the time only six. 2 

Congress has lately received interesting dispatches from Europe and 
has many important subjects before them, they requiring the assent and 
consideration of nine States we have not entered into any discussion of 
them, and therefore it has not been practicable to collect, with certainty, 
the sentiments of the States on them, or to determine what part their 
Delegates will act in settling the interesting questions as to our conduct 
towards G. Britain in future, towards the Barbary powers etc., 8 as to 
vesting commercial powers in Congress, settling the accounts of the 

vania delegates laid before Congress instructions from their assembly respecting Seek 
Keesar (variously spelled) and thirty-four others, natives of Bengal and China, together 
with a memorial from those people, praying for a support while in the United States and 
a passage to their own countries at public expense. The memorial to Congress, dated 
Dec. 14 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 69, vol. II., f. 537), which embodies an earlier 
memorial to the president and council of Pennsylvania, represents that they had come 
to Baltimore as marines on board the ship Pallas, Captain John O'Donnell, had received 
hard treatment on their passage, had finally sold almost all their goods for support, 
and would have perished but for the benevolence of Levi Hollingsworth. They had come 
to Philadelphia in the hope of obtaining passage to their native country by way of 
Europe or on the vessel of Captain Truxton, who was about to sail for India. (Truxton 
was granted sea letters Jan. 2, 1786.) The memorialists also sought aid in the recovery 
of the son of Seek Keesar, a lad of about twelve years of age, who had been stolen from 
his father and was at that time in possession of Captain O'Donnell. The Pennsylvania 
assembly decided that it was a national obligation and accordingly besought Congress to 
relieve the state of the maintenance of these people and procure them a conveyance to their 
own countries. Their instructions to their delegates (dated Dec. 17, ibid., f. 533), together 
with the memorial, were referred Dec. 28 to a committee, who reported Dec. 30 that " it 
would be inexpedient for Congress to comply with their request ". The Pennsylvania 
authorities appear to have taken care of them until September, 1786, when they were 
returned to Maryland in the hope that they would secure passage to India with Captain 
O'Donnell, who had obtained sea letters for the ship Chesapeake on Aug. 30. For the 
principal facts in this curious and distressful episode of the China trade, then exerting 
a strong appeal to American merchants, see Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 526-528, 531, 533, 
546, 548, XI. 56-57; Pa. Col. Recs., XIV. 561, 569, 574, XV. 75. 

[3i2] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York (addressed, 
"E. Pulling Esqr."). 

2 William Samuel Johnson's diary entries for the week ending Saturday, Jan. 7, 
are as follows: "2d. Sleet Rain at Congress . . . . ; 3d. Moder[at]e at Congress . . . .; 
4th. Fine Weath'r No Congress . . . . ; 5th Cold at Congress . . . . ; 6th Fine at 
Congress . . . . ; 7th. Moderate No Congress . . . ." 

A report of Secretary Jay, dated Jan. 3 and presented in Congress Jan. 5, upon a 
communication from Gardoqui (Dec. 29) respecting the flags to be used by Spanish mer- 
chant ships (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 185), resulted in an order, Jan. 6, that the 
secretary transmit a copy of the Spanish decree (dated May 28, 1785), together with a 
copy of the design of the flag, to each of the thirteen states. Jay's letter of transmittal, 
Feb. 13, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 743, and in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 525 (with the 
date Jan. 13). The decree is ibid., p. 526. A copy of the design is in the Pennsylvania 
archives at Harrisburg. 

3 Cf. nos. 281, 287, ante, 313, 317, 320, 321, post. Letters from John Adams Oct. 15, 
17, 31, 25, 27, were read in Congress Dec. 28. They are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
II. 478-501, and Jay's letters of acknowledgement, Jan. 2, Feb. 3, are ibid., pp. 502, 510. 
His report upon them, Jan. 31, is in the Journals, Feb. 1. Adams's letters of Oct. 15, 17, 
21 are also in his Works, VIII. 320-333. 



282 Continental Congress 

several States with the Union, and carrying into effect the Continental 
impost system. But from the little information I have collected since 
here I am induced to believe that the federal Government have it in its 
power to carry its present important objects into effect in time by a firm 
and steady perseverance. 

I do think the States are at present represented in Congress by can- 
did, and for the most part, good federal and republican men — men rea- 
sonably disposed to give up partial, or States interests for the good of 
the Confederacy. 

It is true there are several young gentlemen from the Southern States 
of considerable fortunes, educated in Europe and bred to the law who 
come with some high ideas of distinction and the etiquette of society; 
but these sons of a warm and debilitating climate, and a luxurious soil, 
think and speak plausibly, are gentlemen, and possessed of agreeable 
qualities but their minds and constitutions want the energy and habits 
of attention and perseverance of the Northern States — they are capable 
by their wealth of giving aid to the Union, and I have that partiality for 
our Northern people, their efficient strength in the field and abilities in 
the forum as to believe the Southern States have much to fear from a 
dissolution of the present Confederacy. Enervated, disposed over a large 
territory but little inured to constraint they are capable of making perhaps 
if left to stand alone but little resistance to a foreign enemy or one near 
home. Nor are their best men totally unacquainted with these circum- 
stances. These considerations must press them into Federal measures — 
they surely must be alarmed even at the suggestion of a confederacy of 
the States north of the Potomac or even the Delaware and give up their 
opposition to avoid such a measure. 

All the States have adopted the Contl. impost except R. Island, N. York 
and Georgia, in the terms of the system recommended. R. Island has 
done it partially, N. York it is believed will adopt it this winter.* their 
General Assembly is now convening and will soon enter upon the con- 
sideration of it — if the question whether the Theatre here shall be sup- 
pressed or not and matters more popular and less substantial do not 
engross their attention 

313. Nathan Dane to James Bowdoin (?) 1 

N. York Jan. 10, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

You did me the honor to introduce me to an agreeable gentleman here 
and to mention a correspondence between us at convenient Seasons. I 
should have improved the favor sooner but I have been waiting for son it- 
thing to occur worth communicating and have little or nothing after all — 
since my arrival here there have been assembled in Congress only seven 
States at any time and sometimes only six whence the important affairs 

4 See Secretary Thomson's report in the Journals, Jan. 4 ; cf. no. 296, ante, and nos. 
316, 323, post. 

[313] 1 Beverly Historical Society, Beverly, Mass. 



January, 1/86 283 

of the Union have not come into consideration and nothing of consequence 
has been agitated or considered by Congress — we admitted Mr. Temple 
in the form you see in the B paper — this on all hands was agreed to be 
the most prudent measure considering the present peculiar disposition of 
the two Nations towards each other. 2 Mr. Hancock soon after his choice 
notified his acceptance of the presidency of Congress he was expected 
soon to arrive here but we have not as Delegates of the States individually 
or in any other way had any information from him. we are enquired of 
daily by many persons respecting his arrival and it has been reported from 
time to time that he was on his way we yesterday were informed by the 
letter of a friend that on the 2d of this month he was at home confined 
by his ill State of health. 8 

the disposition for vesting commercial powers in Congress appears to 
me to be more general particularly in the Southern States than I expected 
to find it — nine States N. Hampshire, Massachusetts, R. Island, Connec- 
ticut N. York Pennsylva. Maryland Virginia and North Carolina have 
all except New Hampshire and R. Island adopted the resolve of Congr. 
of Apr. 30, 1784 — in the terms of it — and those two States have gone 
as far as the resolve required — and it is said the other States will adopt 
it — and I think it is an unfortunate circumstance that the system of federal 
commercial powers recommended by that resolve was not better digested 
and more adequate to the purposes intended, there are many sensible 
men who appear to wish commercial powers to be vested in Congress to 
be exercised as occasion may require but think we ought to be very frugal 
in Commercial restrictions and regulations and adopt them only on press- 
ing occasions. 4 it is believed here that N. York will this winter adopt or 
grant the continental impost if so must not Georgia adopt it and R. 
Island alter her act for granting it will those two small States stand out 
against the voice of all the rest. 5 

We see many pieces in the Boston papers, which are reprinted here and 
in some of the other States that reflect not a little on the conduct of our 
Legislature their last Session respecting the valuation and the postpone- 
ment of the late requisition, absentees etc. Massachusetts has deservedly 
her influence and respectability at present in the Union and in my opinion 
she is deeply interested in preserving them. 6 I am sorry the General 
Court did not do more and that the Struggle about the valuation of the 
respective towns is so great, but many of those rude attacks upon it can 
never tend to reform but only to wound the feelings of some and to 
irritate others to encrease and expose discords and lessen us in the eyes 
of the world. 

2 See nos. 289, 293, 296, 300, ante, 386, 558, post. See also William Gordon to John 
Temple Feb. I, in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., VI. 88. " B paper " doubt- 
less means Boston paper. 

3 See nos. 291, 293, ante. 

4 Cf. nos. 183, 195, 196, 267, 296, 309, ante, and no. 317, post. 

5 Cf. nos. 296, 309, ante, 316, 317, 332, 333, 348, 359, post. See also Life of King, I. 
122 et seq. 

6 Cf. no. 317, post. 

25 



284 Continental Congress 

314. Pierse Long to the President of New II ami-shirk 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York Jany. 11th, 1786. 
Sir, 

In my letter to your Excell'y of the 30th Xovr. 2 I did myself the hon'r 
to enclose agreeable to your directions, a return of the States (who had 
complied with the recommendation of Congress of the 30th April 84 | 
which I had of the Secy. But in perusing his book of minutes, I found he 
had not fully complied with my request, And that it might be done in 
such a manner as the several States should have the information they 
wished, I moved Congress that the order at the head of the Secy's report 
should be passed, and have the Hon'r to enclose one of said reports for 
you Excell'ys. use. 8 

315. Jambs Monroe to Thomas JeffersO 

New York. Jany. 10. 1 
Dear Sir, 

.... I arrived at Richmond on the 14th of Novr. and found there 
letters for me from the agents of the two States with advice that the 
session of the c't had been deferr'd. 2 I therefore prepar'd as soon as 
possible to sit out for this place and arriv'd on the 18 of Deer. I found 
in Virginia and this town letters from you of 17 of June, the 5 and u 
of July, and have since had the pleasure to receive that addressed by Mr. 
Franklin of the 4th from himself. 8 He was here a few days since upon 
some private business and was so kind as to favor me frequently with 
his company. I have also been much pleas'd with an acquaintance with 
Mr. Otto. He hath made an impression here very flattering to himself 

[314] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., III. 81. 

- No. 292, ante. 

8 The reference is doubtless to the motion of Jan. 2, although in the Journals it is 
credited to Rufus King, in whose writing the motion appears. The secretary's report is 
found in the Journals under Jan. 4. The report was printed (see Bibliographical N 
ibid., p. 957), and was sent to the several states bv Thomson Jan. 12 (<• 
Letter-Book, p. 18; Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, XXXI. 22: \. Y Stat. Lib.. Clinton 
Papers, no. 5703; Pa. Arch., first ser.. X. 736; N. C. State /v'.v.c. Will. 496). 

[315] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 112; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, I. 480 (part). 

2 Monroe had spoken of his western journey and his hurried return in order to 
attend the court, of which be was <>ne of the commissioners, designated to determine 
territorial controversy between Massachusetts and New York. The meeting of the court 
had been set for Nov. 15 at Williamsburg. See no. 271, ante, and ost. 

•Jefferson's letters of June 17 and July 5 are in his Writinas. IV. 49, 64, and a 
letter to the Virginia delegates July 12 is ihid.. p. 72. The letter of July 5 contains I 
passage, mainly in cipher, concerning William Temple Franklin, who was the bearer of 
the letter, and a brief postscript respecting Dr. Franklin. Inasmuch as a few of the 
ciphers remain untranslated in Jeffcrsonl il'rifhu/s, and in a few instances the translation 
is erroneous, the passages are here reproduced : 

"[This] will be [brought you t>y Master Franklin. He] has a separate [letter] 
[introduction to you. I] nave [never been with him enough] to [unravel his character] 
with certainty. [It S«as] to be [good] in the [main. I see sometimes] an [attempt] to 
[keep himself unjK-netrated] which perhaps is the [effect] of the cause — [1. Ibis 

grandfather. His understanding] is [good enough] for [common uses] but not [great 



January, 1786 285 

and favorable to the idea you entertain of him. 4 It hath been matter of 
great surprise and concern here that the dispatches respecting the barbary 
powers sho'd have been so long in reaching you. [This Mr. Lambe was 
presented to some of the gentlemen in Congress by the late president 
Huntington]. At that time it was propos'd, and for wh. purpose a [report 
was] brought in to carry on [these treaties] immediately from [the United 
States] and to [appoint the persons] and [despatch them hence] to fit out 
[the Alliance load her with naval stores] and [present her] to [the 
Emperor], by this procedure it was presum'd we might by telling these 
[Powers] that we were as yet [unacquainted with them or their wants] 
succeed [better than even under the mediation of France]. And the 
[secretary of foreign affairs having reported that this man was fit for 
the negotiation the committee advised] that [he be employed], but it was 
rejected, we have since heard that [he was] from [his station in life] 
and probable [talents] by no means [worthy such a trust]. We have lately 
heard from Mr. Adams that Mr. Barclay with Frankes are sent to the 
Emperor and that Mr. Lambe and a Mr. Randall to Algiers. 5 .... My 
several routes westward, with the knowledge of the country I have thereby 
obtained, have impressed me fully with a conviction of the impolicy of 

enough] for [uncommon] ones. However [you] will have [better opportunity] of 
[knowing him] The [Doctor] is [extremely wounded] by the [inattention] of [Congress] 
to his [application] for [him. He expects] something to be [done] as a [reward for his 
own service. He] will [preserve] a determined [silence] on this [subject] in [future]. 

" P. S. Europe fixes an attentive eye on [your reception of Doctor Franklin. He] 
is infinitely [esteemed. Do] not [neglect] any [marks] of [your approbation] which 
[you think just] or [proper.] It will [honor you] here." 

Most of the corrections are of minor importance, but in one instance young Franklin is 
relieved of a dark hint of some unfavorable aspect to his character. The mysterious 640 
is only the last letter of the word main, and there is no " but " or cipher therefor. 

4 W. T. Franklin wrote to Jefferson Jan. 18 expressing his gratification upon 
making the acquaintance of Monroe. After referring to the deficient attendance in 
Congress and making some comments upon the consequent delay to important measures, 
he continues : " This being the Situation of Congress I do not think it adviseable to have 
the Report of the Secy, for foreign Affairs, relative to my Grandfather and myself, 
taken up at present. What is proper might not be done, or if it were, it would not be so 
respectable as in a fuller Congress. As soon as there are ten or twelve States I shall 
get the Pennsylvania Delegates to bring the Matter forward. What Congress will decide 
with regard to me I know not : Some of my Friends are of Opinion that my Services, and 
the Advantages I have had will ensure me Promotion. But as I shall not solicit any thing, 
so I shall not expose myself to the Humiliation of a Refusal." He speaks further of his 
ambition to become established in the diplomatic service, having served " a long and 
busy Apprenticeship in it" (Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers). See vol. VII. passim. 

In his letter of June 17 Jefferson wrote : " This will be handed you by Mr. Otto who 
comes to America as Charge des Affaires in the room of Mr. Marbois promoted to the 

Intendancy of Hispaniola, which office is next to that of Governor I am much 

pleased with Otto's appointment. He is good humored, affectionate to America, will see 
things in a friendly light when they admit of it, in a rational one always, and will not 
pique himself on writing every trifling circumstance of irritation to his court ", etc. Cf- 
Otto to Vergennes, Jan. 10 (extract in Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 479). 

5 See nos. 273 (note 4), 309, ante. See further the Journals. Apr. 5, May 11, and 
nos. 320, 364, 380, post. Franklin wrote to Jay Jan. 7, 1786: "I do not know what the 
Congress has done or propose to do respecting the Algerines ; but if it is intended to 
send an Envoy to them from America, I imagine nothing would be more likely to procure 
him a welcome Reception than the Measure propos'd in the enclos'd Letter. If you 
should be of the same Opinion, and see no Impropriety in laying it before Congress, I 
would request you to do it ; in which you will oblige the Vice-President of this State as 
well as him who has the honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble Servant, 



286 Continental Congress 

our measures respecting it. 8 I speak not in this instance of the ordinance 
for the survey and disposal of it, but of those which became necessary 
and were founded upon the act of cession from the state of Virginia. I 
am clearly of opinion that to many of the most important objects of a 
federal government their interests, if not oppos'd will be but little con- 
nected with ours ; instead of weakening theirs and making it subservient 
to our purposes we have given it all the possible strength we co'd ; weaken 
it we might also and at the same time ( I mean by reducing the number 
of the States) render them substantial service. A great part of the terri- 
tory is miserably poor, especially that near Lakes Michigan and Erie and 
that upon the Mississippi and the Illinois, consists of extensive plains \vh. 
have not had from appearances and will not have, a single bush on them, 
for ages. The Districts therefore within \vh. these fall will perhaps never 
contain a sufficient number of Inhabitants to entitle them to membership 
in the confideracy, and in the mean time the people who may settle within 
them will be gov'd by the resolutions of Congress in wh. they will not 
be represented. In many instances I observ'd above, their interests will 

be oppos'd to ours The tendency wh. at present prevails for a 

dismemberment of the old States not only increases their strength but 
will also add to the diversity of interests. 7 At the instance of which of 
the states hath the right to the navigation of the Mississippi been carried 
thus far. And if you lop of the western parts of those states by whom it 
was brought about will you not necessarily withdraw them from that 
pursuit, whatever shall be done or attempted on this subject I will trans- 
mit you. The subject of the mint was taken up last summer and determin'd 
that the unit sho'd be a dol'r it was afterward postpon'd. It will be 
taken up ag'n so soon as we have 9 or ten States (for the present we 
have but 7). 8 The proposition for recommending it to the States to 
vest the U S. to regulate their trade is still before Congress, what will be 
its fate is uncertain 

316. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

Xi.w York January 20th 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I am honoured with yours of the 3d instant and am very clear in 
sentiment with you that Congress should be invested with power to regu- 
late trade. It is also the sentiment of many others here. But we 
embarrassed for want of a fuller representation there having been no 
more than seven States here since my arrival: consequently the m<>-.t 
important business cannot be done. The whole business of finance goes 

B. Franklin" (Library of Congress. Franklin Papers). The enclosure has not been 
identified. 

With regard to the territorial government see no. 373, post. 

7 Cf. nos. 273, 275, 308, 309, ante. 

8 See the Journals, May 13. July 6. 17S;. Apr. 12. Aug. 8. Sept. 21, Oct. 10. i'>. 17, 
1786. Cf. nos. 182, 203. . _•;, (»».',-. 462, 471. post. 

[316! » Library of Conpi Trans.. X. H. Rect., Council Corr.. ij 



January, 1786 287 

on heavily as you will see by pursuing the enclosed, which was printed 
for the members of Congress. 2 

The Legislature of New York are now sitting it is expected by some 
but much doubted by others that they will acceed to the 5 per cent duty 
upon which the whole system of Apr. 1783 turns. 3 Communications from 
Mr. Adams give but faint hopes of a treaty of commerce with Great 
Britain : although I am led to believe his negotiations on that subject 
have been spirited and judicious. 

The surveyors of land for our western territory returned having done 
very little for fear of the Indians. However a treaty is on foot which it 
is hoped will set the matter right. Much is said in favour of the soil 
climate and productions that were surveyed it will meet with a quick sale. 
I wish it may. 

317. Nathan Dane to Samuel Phillips. 1 

New York, Jan. 20, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since I arrived in this place we have had only seven States at any period 
assembled in Congr. and for a considerable part of the time I have been 
here only six. 2 we have not been in a situation therefore to enter into the 
consideration of the sev[eral] important matters now before the federal 
Government — and of course not in a condition to collect the sentiments of 

the several Delegations respecting them all the States have adopted 

the impost system of Apr. 18, 1783 except R. Island which has done 
it partially, N. York and Georgia, people in this State begin to think 
seriously about it their assembly has lately convened and will be hardly 
pressed to come into the measure. 3 Georgia, it is said by her Delegates, 
will grant it. one man has had the address hitherto to prevent it who 
promises to withdraw his opposition, it is curious to observe that the 
Grand Juries of most of the Counties in that State have presented their 
Legislature (as they have a right to do by their constitution) for not 
granting the impost as a dangerous delay and neglect. 4 all the States 

2 Probably the report of the secretary of Congress on revenue and commerce 
Jan. 4. See the Journals, also Bibliographical Notes, p. 957; also no. 312, ante, and no. 
323, post. 

8 Cf. nos. 309, 313, ante, 332, 333, 343, 348, post. 
[317] * Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

2 Dane first attended Nov. 17, but it was not until Nov. 23 that there were seven 
states represented, when the several credentials were read. For the two weeks ending 
Saturday, Jan. 21, William Samuel Johnson records in his diary that he was "at Congress " 
Jan. 9 to 12, inclusive, that there was " No Congress " on the 13th, 14th, and 16th (the 
15th was Sunday), that he was "at Congress" on the 17th, 18th, and 19th, and that 
there was "No Congress" on the 20th and 21st. 

3 See the report of the secretary of Congress Jan. 4, also the Journals, Feb. 3. 
Cf. nos. 312, 313, 316, ante, 327, 332, 333, post. 

4 See no. no, ante, and no. 320, post. Dane had evidently just read an item in the 
Nezv York Daily Advertiser of January 18, wherein a correspondent offers some extracts 
from presentments of grand juries in the counties of Wilkes and Liberty in the state of 
Georgia. Following is the Wilkes County presentment : 

" We present as a great and dangerous grievance, the refusal of this state to grant 
powers to Congress to lay an impost of five per cent, on all foreign articles of commerce 
imported into this state. We conceive it highly dangerous to leave Congress in a state 



288 Continental Congress 

have passed acts for vesting commercial powers in Congress according to 
the recommendation of Apr. 30. 17X4. except N. Jersey, Delaware, So. 
Carolina and Georgia, and it is said they will pass similar Acts, some of 
them at present object that the powers proposed by that recommendation 
are not adequate to commercial purposes, that more extensive power- 
ought to be delegated, the Southern States say they till the ground and 
produce their exports and find the best market for them when their ports 
are open to all the world but for the sake of agreeing with us they are 
willing the Northern States should become their carriers submodo but 
not so as to make to themselves an exclusive right and thereby have it 
in their power to monopolize at pleasure, that the com'l powers of the 
Union ought to be lodged in the federal Gover't so's [ ?] they can be exer- 
cised uniformly to effect on pressing occasions few doubt — but I believe 
few will hold who have attended to the subject well that America at pre s e n t 
ought to effect her trade in any manner by com'l restrictions, regulations 
and encouragements in common cases, but only in those cases where it 
may be necessary to remove impediments put upon it by foreign po* 
you can hardly conceive, sir, how much our common measures are 
impeded by the unsettled State of public accounts, each State brings for- 
ward her demands for supplies furnished or services rendered during 
the war which she urges were necessary and for the common good tho 
not in pursuance of the requests or resolves of Congr. these demands in 
the several States may amount to near 30,000,000 dollars, some of these 
demands are more just than others. Maryland, Virginia, So. Carolina 
and some other States bring forward regulalor [regular?] charges of 
every thing they have done during the war. the amo. of Virginia is near 

of responsibility disproportioned to their powers, as this must in every instance unavoid- 
ably tend to lessen public credit. During the late important war which terminated in the 
final establishment of our liberty and independence, the care of the war was confided to 
Congress ; 'twas to that august council the eyes and expectations of all were turned : to 
them we looked up for our political salvation. Full and ample powers were granted to 
them by the legislatures of every state in the union to obtain unlimited loans from I 'Vance. 
Holland, and other European powers, which loans were actually obtained on the faith of 
Congress, as the representative body of the United States. For these reasons we take the 
liberty of r e co mm ending to the honorable the legislature to invest the United States fan 
Congress assembled with full powers to levy an impost of five per cent, on all gi 
wares, and merchandize, imported into this state from any foreign port, island, or 
plantation." 

The presentment by the grand jury of Liberty County, which is to the same e 
though briefer, is doubtless a second presentment by that county, as the language varies 
from that of the presentment of April. 1785, mentioned under no. 1 10, note 5. <""• 
the autumn of 1785. as Chief Justice Walton made his circuit through the various con 
he continued to charge the grand juries on the subject. For instance, in his char. 
the grand jury of Chatham County in the beginning of Octolnr {Gazette <>/ the State of 
Georgia, October 6. 1785) he discourses Upon the lack of necessary powers in Con 
and refers to "a sensible production" on the subject in last week's Gazette. That article 
is in the issue of September 29. signed "Agricola ". In the issue of Octoln-r 13 is ,m 
address to the people of Georgia, signed " T. G. ". " On the Measures to be taken relative 
to Trade, and the granting of New Powers to CongreM '. In the fame oi November /? is 
a presentment of the grand jury of Effingham County in these terms: "We present, as a 
great grievance, that Congress have not powers adequate to the regulation of our trade; 
and earnestly recommend to the Legislature to grant them such as may be sufficient to 
support the united views of the continent." In the issue of December 8 is a presentment 
of Burke County in nearly the same terms. 



January, 1786 289 

11,000,000 of do'rs, but if these charges are allowable we ought to be 
allowed our expenses for sea coast guards, penobscot expedition, extra 
bounties, depreciation on the pay rolls of the militia, old money, de- 
preciation on paper money, pay't made at a late day for services and 
supplies early in the war and not so soon as to R. Island, Pensy., Maryland 
and o'r [*. e., other] States who have kept a better look out — but these 
things in part cannot be many States have kept no acco's. we in this case 
with all our exersions probably should fall in debt. 5 for the 500,000 dr's 
our States money which we called in at an early period and there by 
created a large State Debt and only opened a Door for so much cont'l 
money; coming into the hands of our citizens and dying there for o'r 
States neglected to redeem their State money but issued quantities of it. 6 
but many of the States are urgent for a settlement and will probably 
approve all requisitions of Congr. till some measures are taken more 
effectual for settlement, these accounts cannot it is clear be allowed or 
rejected in the whole they must be examined in their nature and extent 
and reduced to what is just and reasonable] or they will slay all federal 
measures, it is moved by some States that have large demands of this 
kind that the Commissioners appointed to settle accounts between the 
Union and the individual States should be authorised to settle and allow 
these demands according to equity and good Conscience, but it is the 
opinion of others that they are not competent to the adjustment of such 
important demands. 7 the latter I think is the better opinion, it remains 
therefore for Congress to appoint some man or board of Commissioners 
who will be equal to the business and have the Confidence of the parties to 
settle these accounts and determine how far they shall be charges against 
the Union and for Congr. to prescribe rules as far as it is practicable for 
conducting the business, this has become a matter of great importance 
and serious and we must be decisive and in earnest in the business if 
you shall have leisure to send me your ideas or opinion as to the best 
mode of settling these demands etc., I shall be happy to receive such 

communications 8 

I wish Sir you would write me about our eastern land affairs, we shall 
have but little business to do here till Spring I believe for want of a 
sufficient number of States assembled, and may possibly attend those 
eastern affairs or do my endeavours that another person may be appointed 
in my place as may best serve the Interest of the Commonwealth. 

5 On the subject of state accounts see particularly no. 321, post. 

6 The passage, " for the 500,000 .... quantities of it ", is written in the margin 
without indication of its place in the letter, but apparently it belongs at this point. 

7 See nos. 172 (note 3), 191, 207, 255, ante, 321, 364, post. 

8 Dane here discourses at length respecting the disturbances in the " Eastern 
Counties" (Maine), discussing in particular the question of their admission as a separate 
state. On this subject see an article by Edward Stanwood, "The Separation of Maine 
from Massachusetts", in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLI. 125-164. Dane's remarks 
may appropriately be compared with those of Jefferson on the subject, written at almost 
the same time, although on the other side of the Atlantic. They are in his " Answers to 
Questions propounded by M. de Meusnier " (given the date Jan. 24, 1786), in Writings, 
IV. 138-158 (see especially pp. 140, 156). 



290 Continental Congress 

318. James Monroe to William Short. 1 

New York Jany. 23, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You desire information whether it is the intention of Congress 
to extend their foreign appointments. At present I believe it is not. The 
idea seems to prevail that secretarys of legation are absolutely useless, 
the motive or cause which originally gave birth to the office in Europe 
does not apply here, there a nobleman held the office in quality of his 
rank in the court, tho' destitute of the necessary talents to discharge its 
duties, in consequence of which it became necessary to appoint a person 
who did and annex him to the legation, but with us this is not the case, 
we shall appoint the man, the minister, in consideration of his talents only. 
why it hath been adopted at all, arose from a ridiculous and servile limita- 
tion of the usages of Europe in the first instances and the last from a cause 
wh. I cannot explain to you out of cypher. 2 The only argument in favor 
of it is, it will teach young men to form ministers themselves, yet I doubt 
whether this is not rather visionary than real, for I question much whether 
service in our different publick offices will not be equally or more in- 
structive. Many very important subjects will be before Congress in the 
course of this winter, particularly the subject of a mint, the commerce 
of the States, a plan of militia, the division and disposition of the western 
country etc. ; as yet we have but 7 States present but expect a full repre- 
sentation in a few weeks. You have heard of the death of our amiable 
friend Mr. Hardy, his loss is universally lamented, but more particularly 
felt by myself in the delegation. 8 

P. S 



319. The Chairman of Congress (David Ramsay) to 
Certain States. 1 

\k\v York January ^ 1 st . 1786. 
Sir, 

In conformity to the resolution enclosed it becomes my duty to write 
to the Executives of the several States which are at present unrepresented 
in Congress. 2 

[318] • Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, I. 90. 

2 The allusion is to the election of William Stephens Smith as secretary to the 
legation at London. See the Journals, Mar. 1, 1785; also nos. 65, 70, ante. 

•In his letter to Jefferson Jan. 19 (passage omitted from no. 315, ante) Monroe 
speaks more circumstantially concerning Hardy's death. 

[319] 1 Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. (to the Governor of North Carolina) ; 
R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 18 (dated Feb. 1) ; Staples, R. 1. in 
Cont. Cone., p. 542 (dated Feb. 1) ; N. C. State Rccs.. XVIII. 515. 

2 This letter was presumably addressed to the governors of Rhode Island, Delaware, 
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia, in accordance with the resolution of 
Jan. 30. A copy of the resolve, doubtless that which accompanied Ramsay's Utter to the 
governor of North Carolina, is in Cont. Cong., Misc. MSS. Cf. no. 322, post. William 
Samuel Johnson notes in his diary that he was " at Congress " every day from Jan. 23 
to 31, except the 28th, when he was "at Comm'ee", and the 29th, which was Sun 



January, 1/86 291 

Three months of the federal year are now compleated and in that 
whole period no more than seven states have at any one time been repre- 
sented. No question excepting that of adjourning from day to day can 
be carried without perfect Unanimity. The extreme difficulty of framing 
Resolutions against which no exception can be taken by any one State, 
can scarcely be conceived but by those whose unfortunate situation had 
led them to experience the perplexing embarrassment. Was the con- 
venience of the present members only concerned your Excellency would 
not have been troubled with this Letter. Sorry I am to add that the most 
essential interests of the United States suffer from the same cause. The 
languishing State of public credit is notorious both in Europe and America. 
What an additional wound must be given to it when it is known that no 
plans can be made for the payment of our debts, without the Unanimous 
consent of Nine States, and that only seven States have yet come forward 
with a representation. The disposition of our western Territory, An 
American Coinage, Commercial arrangements with European powers, 
particularly Great Britain, and a variety of other matters are of immense 
and pressing importance, but for want of an additional number of States 
nothing can be done. 

I forbear to mention to your Excellency that even in private life where 
two persons agree to meet at a given time and place for the adjustment 
of their common concerns, the one who attends has a right to complain 
that he is not treated with common politeness by the other who breaks 
his appointment. I say nothing of the unequal burden imposed on the 
States who are present : They incur a heavy expence to maintain their 
delegates, and this expence is rendered inefficient, because that out of the 
other six no two have come forward to concur with them in dispatching 
the public business. Least of all would I insinuate that the present States 
might be justified in Resolving that as they had attended three months 
to no purpose they would in their turn relinquish the public service, and 
leave the other states should they come on, to suffer a similar mortification 
to what they have long experienced of meeting and adjourning from day 
to day without having it in their power to enter on the most important 
and pressing national business. 

The remissness of the States in keeping up a representation in Con- 
gress naturally tends to annihilate our Confederation. That once dissolved 
our State establishments would be of short duration. Anarchy, or in- 
testine wars would follow till some future Caesar seized our Liberties, 
or we would be the sport of European politics, and perhaps parcelled out 
as appendages to their several Governments. 

In behalf of Congress in the chair of which I at present have the honor 
to sit I beseech your Excellency by the regard you have for our federal 
Government to use your utmost endeavours to induce the delegates of 
your State to give their immediate attendance in Congress. 

I have the honor to be Your Excellency's 

Most obedient and most humble Servant, 

David Ramsay. 



292 Continental Congress 

320. Nathan Dane to John Choate. 1 

New York, Jan. 31, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I at this time improve the privilege of writing to you agreeable to 
proposals not so much because I have interesting information to com- 
municate but I wish to promote our correspondence, the general tran- 
quillity that prevails throughout U. States affords but few daily occurrences 
— and there having been since my arrival here at no time more than 
seven States assembled in Congress we have been able to form no very in- 
teresting determinations, however we have turned our inquiries and Con- 
gress its attention in some degree to the important matters which at present 
attract the attention of the several parts of the Union, and endeavour 
to put them in a train of Decision. I mean the matters respecting the 
finances, the Commerce of and the unliquidated demands upon the United 
States, to carry some better federal System of revenue into effect than 
our present, to regulate our trade on a broad and uniform basis, and to 
settle those demands of States and individuals upon the Union which at 
present excite so much uneasiness and inequality and tend much to obstruct 
federal measures, are objects in my opinion of the first consequence. 
whenever measures are adopted on these heads, these subjects that extend 
to effect the various interests of the States and parts of the Confederacy 
present and future, they undoubtedly ought to be the result of strict 
laborious enquiry, candid discussion and impartial but deliberate deter- 
minations, the present time of peace and leisure is certainly f a vo ura ble 
to these objects, the danger is that if we neglect to improve our federal 
polity in these important points and to adopt some different systems till 
congress is compelled into the measure by war or a common danger * the 
states will then act precipitately and adopt undigested measures unequal 
to the purposes intended or by unguarded expressions give up what they 
never proposed to do 

it is true Congress hold the weapons of war and the palms of p 
but the respective states hold the purse strings of the Union, the power of 
creating Congress annually, recalling its members at pleasure and regu- 
lating the reward of their services, whence we seldom see a member of 
Congress depart from the opinion of his State even tho he may be fully 
convinced that that opinion is founded on mistaken facts and would be 
given up by the State had it possess'd itself of the true state of things 
and of the information he has. he will ever harbour doubts whether it is 
in his power to induce his constituents to alter their opinion and think 
with him ; whence the very honor of members is often concerned in giving 
their States true information in the first instance and getting early their 
well founded opinion, however I have but little doubt that it will be 
always safest to leave the ballance of power inclining in favor of the 
respective Legislatures, it being then not quite so far removed from the 
people, but powers that have a foreign or common influence cannot be 

[320]' Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 
* See no. 317, note 5, ante. 



January, 1786 293 

uniformly ex[er]cised by legislatures totally independent of each other, 
nor can they be exercised by Congress to the best advantage of the Com- 
munity in the mode in which that body at present possesses them, yet I 
hold it unsafe even to attempt an alteration in our Confederacy except 
in those parts where we are pretty clearly convinced of the defects. I 
feel happy in the reflection the whole Confed[er]ation was not sub- 
mitted to revision as proposed by our State. 3 such a measure must have 
implied more than at first the State might be aware of — that she disliked 
it in all its parts and had given a kind of legal toleration to every quibbling 
party to attack it some where and among the variety of the proposed 
amendments the Community might have been divided and confused, nor 
do I think we are ripe for or ought to attempt without further experience 
any more amendments in the Confederation or federal System radically 
than are now proposed by investing Congress with the avails of the 
revenue system of April 18, 1783,* by the proposed alteration of the 8th 
art. of it and by vesting them with well defined powers to regulate trade, 
either by a perpetual new art. in the Confed'n or by temporary laws. 

as to another idea that has been started by some that Congress ought 
to have a controuling power to bring back to their duty the parts of States 
that may revolt and set up for independence it is here held by Congress 
and the best informed statesmen that the Confed'n is now sufficient for 
that purpose, that the 2 and 3 articls are a guarantee of the States to 
each State of its jurisdiction and territory and when called on are held 
to assist it agt. any part that may revolt, that the 1 1 art. does not is held 
by many and I believe will be by all who examine the Confed'n carefully, 
extend to authorize Congress to divide an original State and make a new 
one out of an acknowledged part of it. so much aware of this have 
N. York and Vermont been in their disputes that the principle point con- 
tended by them has been whether Vermont has or has not been a part of 
N. York since N. York became part of the Confederacy. 5 but how shall 
we carry into full effect the amendments I have hinted at which a majority 
of the States have adopted as recommended by Congress, this is a work 
of time and enquiry but would not the preference that enabled us to 
combine and unite several parts of this body politic in 1774- 1775 etc. 
against the efforts of great Britain, enable us now to bring over a few 
little States to understand the common good of the whole, the States 
make no difficulty about the cont'l impose except R. Island which has 
adopted it partially, N. York and Georgia which stand out. we are in- 
formed that one man in Georgia has had the influence principally to prevent 
its passing there, whose conduct is disagreeable to the people, and the 
grand Juries have generally indicted their assembly as guilty of a danger- 
ous evill for not adopting it. 6 this State is divided in opinion and the 

3 Cf. nos. 198, 215, 267, ante. 

* For the conflicting views of the measure of Apr. 18, 1783, see vol. VII., passim 
(index, "Finance"). There was a revival of the subject at this time. See the 
Journals, Feb. 3, and nos. 327, 334, post. 

5 Cf. no. 317, ante. 

c Cf. nos. no, 317, ante. 



2 ( .H Continental Congress 

opposers of the system must be hard pressed soon by the States of 
N. Jersey and Connect't. Congress have it in contemplation in a few 
days to make a pressing application to their Legislature now setting on 
this head. 7 it is thought the rest of the States will accede to the proposed 
alteration of the 8th art. of the confederation without difficulty except 
N. Hampshire and R. Island about which there are some doubts, all 
the States have vested Congress with a large Com'l power as they recom'd 
by their resolve of Apr. 30, 1784, except X. Jersey, Delaware, So. Carolina 
and Georgia. [N. Jersey have not done it at present because as it is said 
those powers are not extensive enough, the gentlemen who come from 
So. Carolina say they are will'g to confine their carrying trade to Am'n bot- 
toms submodo, that is to lay a heavy tonnage and light duty on foreign 
vessels coming to their ports and like ones on Am'n vessels, but don't 
wish the Northern States to have it in their power to monopolize the whole 
carrying trade of the Southern ones on any terms the carriers may pk 
to make.] 8 however they rather think their State will comply with the 
recommendation. I hope our State will not think of rejecting the late 
requisition of Congress, if so respectable and so federal a State as Ma 
does, a number of States will think themselves quite excused for not 
complying with it. no State as yet has rejected it. but several have adopted 
it. I should be very sorry if federal measures in our State should be im- 
peded because some State demands are not settled, to obtain a vote in [ ?] 
Cong, for the late requis[itio]n, our State and o[the]rs were obliged here 
to croud on the Southern States who Complain loudly of unsettled ac- 
counts, but my letter would be too tediously long to detain you with many 
observations that might be made on this head. I have written to Capt 
Wales on the matters of accounts giving a gen'l view of them. Be kind 
enough sir to give my best respects to your Kinsman the Hon. Dr. ('boate. 
I should have done myself the honor of writing to him but I am unexpect- 
edly prevented by this post. 

321. Nathan Dane to Jacob Wai 

N. York. Jan. 31, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

When I left Boston we proposed I remembered to let each other know 
what should be doing in our respective situations. I feel pleased with an 
opportunity to perform on my part so far as I can by suggesting to your 
consideration some things on the subject interesting to the States and will 
probably be kept in view — I mean the subject of public accounts, by the 
present unsettled situation of the proposition of Massa. respecting the 
revision of the confederation have ree'd no notice what the State did on 

7 See the Journals, Feb. 3. 

8 This sentence is crossed out, as have been a few other sentences, including a 
brief postscript. 

• At the foot of the first page of this letter is the address. " Mr. Qv In 

the letter of the same day to Captain Wales (no. 321, post) Dane mentions this letter 
"to my friend Jno. Choate". 
[321 y Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 



January, 1/86 295 

that subject the last Session. I am this day naturally led into some obser- 
vations in a letter to my friend Jno. Choate relative thereto and some 
other federal affairs. 2 

The present State of the last requisition of Congress in Massa. and 
from a few objections I heard made by some gentlemen to passing or 
complying with it in that State because certain public accounts were not 
settled and certain Demands as yet allowed by Congress, has Induced me 
to pay close attention to those subjects the short time I have been here. I 
am persuaded had those gentlemen who make those objections the in- 
formation one here can obtain and a true idea of the State of public 
accounts they would not make them, we entered into the late war while 
our governments were unorganized, untried and unsettled; the affairs 
of the States were in the hands of Congress, thirteen Legislatures or 
State assemblies and a variety of Committees etc. the business of our 
defence of raising troops, supplying them, arming them etc. fell of course 
into the hands of Committees and men new in the business assigned them, 
of necessity often shifted and obliged to purchase as they could. States 
and Counties and towns often attacked or threatened by the Savages or 
the British were obliged to save themselves and the parts of the Con- 
federacy, to arm, supply and defend themselves agt. the immed'a. danger 
as they could and not pursuant to the requisitions of Congress or perhaps 
there was no requisition existing that reach their Case. 3 The hardships of 
our army were great at times whence it became necessary to give large 
bounties to induce men to go into the f eild. some States were too weak and 
too much oppressed by the distresses of the war to supply punctually their 
quota of men and money other [s] perhaps too neglect whence a third Class 
of states were obliged to hire men etc. at a high and unequal rate to supply 
the deficiencies of the[i]rs. 

from these and other Causes the late war was immensely expensive to 
America 4 

.... Virginia has an account of more than 10,000,000 drs regularly 
kept, the Jerseys and the Carolinas large accounts, other states for the 
like services have kept no acco's. I believe Massa. Connecticut and N. 
York have not. the States that have kept these acco's often bring 
them forward, motions are made that Com'rs be auth'd to settle them 
and they seem sometimes disposed to oppose all requisitions and federal 
measures unless they can be allowed these demands. Massachusetts 
N. Ham'r and some other States return the general argument that the 
demands must be all taken up tog'r if at all, that there is no equity in a 

2 No. 320, ante. In that letter Dane says, " I have written to Capt. Wales on the 
matter of accounts giving a gen'l view ". Cf. no. 317, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 317, 320, ante, 331, 332, post. In a motion of the Massachusetts delegates 
Apr. 12, 1785, an argument similar to that of Dane was offered. Cf. no. 317, note 7, ante. 
At this point Dane crossed out the following sentence : " some Counties so divided in some 
States into Whigs and Tories that a third power was necessary to turn the ballance." A 
sentence was also crossed out preceding " I am persuaded ", above, but it is without special 
significance. 

4 Dane launches into a discussion of the expense of the war, particularly its 
inequality as among the states, the several issues of bills of credit, their depreciation, etc., 
then returns to the subject of the accounts of the several states against the United States. 



296 Continental Congress 

partial allowance of them, tho' these claims in their nature may he some 
what similar to ours on acco. of sea coasts men and Penob't exped'n 
yet our claims on acco. of the old money and extra bounties given to 
men beyond our quota in actual service are within the purview of the Re- 
solves of Congr. but the States who do not see their way clear to acknowl- 
edge the accounts of Virginia and o'rs like them go further and say 
there apparently was no economy in their expenditures if just in part, 
that the States which make such Claims for supplies to and services of 
militia etc. did not comply with the requisitions of Congress, had they 
done it there would not have been occasion for such supplies and militia 
services, that they suffered property to be taken by distress for the army 
which they ought to have collected by lawful assessments, but these 
things they deny in turn and the debates are of but little effect, they 
urge that indiff't men be app'd to settle all the demands of the States which 
arose during the late war in equity and good Conscience, that this is reason- 
able] and that it is an arg't ag't some States that m[a~|y think the ballance 
would be against them, ofthelrwise they would agree to such an appoint't. 
the answer of those States is that it has been the uniform conduct of 
Congress not to allow any State the expence she was carried to incurr in 
her own immed'a. defence not pursuant to the requisitions of Congn 
and that therefore some States have kept no acco. of such expencei and 
must consequently suffer by such an appoint't. that an unthought debt 
and unjust one, because unequal, would be bro't upon the Confederacy. 
many other things are said argued about State demands, they give Cong'r 
much uneasiness, the voice of nine states in 13 is required on all the 
matters almost to carry any measure, and as there are not often more than 
n or 12 States on the floor they must be nearly unanimous to effect any- 
thing, but I think every possible step will be taken to adjust these demands 
that have such a tendency to impede our measures, considering therefore 
these demands of the several states are the result of a glorious war of 
necessary and particular exertions and the unavoidable confusion in the 
measures of a people passing from one government to another, shall 
we say shall each state say here we'ill pause here we'ill stop the wheels 
of Govern't, here we'ill put an end to paying just demands on the I faion 
for interest or service till our demands are allowed by that Govern't 
formed of the States parties in the whole, by that Govern't which by 
our pause, our checks, we have unhinged, but these are things I could 
not believe did I not hear men declare it to be their determination — if 
such men understood the nature of these demands and the extent 
them in the several parts of the union and will compared [sic'] political 
evils, I think they would soon alter their opinion that we ought to vigor- 
ously push our demands on the Union every possible opportunity, their 
can be no doubt but it is too early to take desperate measures to right our- 
selves other States will catch at the example and we shall bring ruin on 
our own heads independent of dessolving the federal Govern't and embroil- 
ing ourselves in numberless quarrels with each other, and exposing our- 
selves to every foreign power, we have a large proportion of tin- 
Continental securities in our State on which the So. States often complain 



February, 1/86 297 

they are paying us interest on the nominal value, if we by an imprudent 
stept [sic'] should imbarrass the requisition or means of supplying the 
federal Chest we ourselves shall suffer most, but it may be asked what 
shall we do with 3 or 4 weak or obstinate States who contribute nothing 
scarcely to that chest — my answer is persevere in working the society 
into health and order cautiously but industriously proceeding in ascer- 
taining and defining the powers of the bodies and persons who govern 
and the rights of the governed, and the day must come when the delinquent 
states must be shaken off and left to their misfortunes or they must be 
compelled to fulfil their federal engagements and pay their quotas, but 
they visibly feel their dependence on and advantages in being connected 
with the others and are I believe endeavouring to be less deficient than they 
have been I have Sir in this letter reposed that confidence I ought and 
have written on this subject openly and freely. 

322. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

Feby. 1st, 1786. 
Sir, 

In obedience to the order of Congress 2 I herewith transmit to Your 
Excellency, to be communicated to the Legislature, a state of the repre- 
sentation for the last month. I am sorry that this goes unaccompanied 
with any Journals of the proceedings of Congress. So few States have 
attended, that for these three months past little has been done besides 
adjourning from day to day. 

On the 30th of last month, the States present, impressed with the 
urgency and importance of the several objects of general concern, which 
demand the immediate attention of the United States in Congress 
assembled, have directed their Chairman to write to the Executives of 
the States of Rhode Island, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Caro- 
lina and Georgia, to state to them the inconveniences arising from a want 
of a sufficient number of States to proceed on the business of the Union, 
and earnestly press them to send on their Delegates immediately. 3 

323. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, i February, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Seven states only have been represented in Congress since October, of 
consequence very few questions of National importance have been under 
the examination of this assembly. The meetings of the Legislatures have 

[322] 1 Library of Congress, Misc. (to Georgia) ; ibid., Secretary's Letter-Book. p. 20; 
N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5712; N. J. State Lib.; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 517. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 30. The schedule of representation for the month of 
January, transmitted with this letter, is in Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. MSS., 
and N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 548. See " List of Members ", ante. 

3 Chairman Ramsay's letter is no. 319, ante. 

[323] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (copy) ; Life of King, I. 154 (part). 



298 Continental Congress 

probably detained many of the delegates, but it is expected that ten states 
will, within a short period, be represented. There is some ground to 
expect that several of the Southern states will do what is right on the 
subject of the commercial powers of Congress. 2 I inclose a report made 
by the Secretary some weeks since in persuance of an order of Congress 
for that purpose. It explains itself and will give you true information on 
several very important points. 8 

New York and Georgia are delinquent states relative to the revenue 
system. 4 .... 

324. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, 3 February, 1786. 

Sir, 

Mr. Wingrove who some months since arrived here from England 
with a recommendation from you to Mr. Jay, submitted to Congress a 
plan for an American commercial establishment in the East Indies. The 
project was reported to a committee of Congress, who were of opinion 
that the commercial intercourse between the United States and India 
would be more prosperous if left unfettered in the hands of private 
adventurers, than if regulated by any system of a national complexion. 
This opinion received the approbation of Congress, and of consequence 
Mr. Wingrove is frustrated in his project of an India Establishment. 2 . . . 

325. Nathan Dane to Samuel Holten. 1 

~. New York Feby. 4, 1786. 

I had the honor, on the 1st Inst; of receiving your's of Deer. 6, I'lto. 
by Capt Landais. Your letter introducing him to me is quite sufficient 
to entitle him to my notice and attention. It was very unfortunate for 
him to have his Conduct examined and decided upon by gentlemen who 
were so particularly circumstanced, as, at least, to appear, to be interested 
in criminating him. 2 

2 Cf. nos. 317, 320, 321, ante. 

8 Thomson's report is in the Journals, Jan. 4. Cf. nos. 312, 316, ante. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 3, also nos. 317, 320, 321, ante, and no. 327, post. 
[324] > N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (copy) ; Life of King, I. 155. 

2 A letter of John Wingrove dated Nov. 29, to the President of Congress, 
offering " to attend their Committee to make such communications and propositions as 
may tend to promote the commercial interests of the Union in the East Indies ", was 
referred Dec. 27 to a committee who reported Jan. 31 (see the Journals). According to 
order Feb. 1 (ibid., p. 40 n.) Thomson wrote Wingrove Feb. 2 that " a standing resolution 
of Congress passed the 16th March 1784 prevents a compliance with your wishes", 
and enclosing a copy of the committee's report (Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 20). Adams's 
Intr o du c ti on of Wingrove, Sept. 3. is in Dipt, Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 474. He also 
wrote Richard Henry Lee concerning Wingrove. See Lee to Adams Dec. 12, 1785. in 
Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 408. Wingrove's application was rejected because he wa- 
a citizen of the United States; yet Adams's letter gives the impression that he wished 
to become such. A letter (copy) from Gerry to Adams Feb. 2. expn nislmient 

that states were so negligent of public welfare, was at one time in possession oJ \\ R. 
Benjamin of New York. 
[325]* N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9405. 

2 See no. 268, note 2. ante; also the Journals, Aug. 2, 11, 1786. 



February, 1786 299 

I should do myself the honor and pleasure, Sir, to proceed to give you 
some accounts of affairs here, had I any thing new or worthy your notice 
to write — having had only seven States assembled in Congress, at any 
time since I arrived here, until last Tuesday, Congress has compleated 
no business of importance, we begin now to bring into consideration the 
more interesting affairs of the Union, and to put them in a train for 
decision. 

326. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

New York 5th Feb. 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

By the vote of the general court of November last for supporting your 
delegates in congress it is provided that the President shall draw orders on 
the treasury ncd [ ?] 2 I suppose it was intended that the delegates should 
draw their orders on the President and that the President should, on such 
orders or bills being presented to him, refer the same to the treasury for 
payment. Upon this plan I shall take the liberty to draw a bill on your 
Excellency for 150 dollars as soon as I shall be able to find a purchaser 
making such bill payable on or about the first day of March at which period, 
that sum and more will become due, according to the tenor of the afore- 
said vote. My cash is in a maner expended — and a delegate can not live 
here (with credit) without plenty of cash. 

I have nothing new — eight States in congress, Mr. Ramsy chairman, 
Mr hancock not arrived. I expect this will find you in session with 
the general court and wish you great success in public business 

327. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, Feby. 9, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I have reed, yours of the day subsequent to the adjournment of the 
assembly. 2 Since my last the subject of the impost has been taken up, 
a report made on it some time last year was recommitted and a report 
being brought in to the following effect, viz : that it be earnestly recom- 
mended to the States of New York and Georgia, the only States who have 
fail'd in some degree or other to comply with the recommendation of the 
18th of April 1783, to take it into their immediate consideration, especially 
that part wh. respects the impost, and to comply with the same, stating 
further that the plans authoriz'd by the confederation have fail'd, or are 
highly inexpedient, vis: requisitions, loans, or emissions of paper bills 
of credit. It implies a relinquishment of the supplementary funds, and 
admits the necessity of a further reference to the States and especially 
R. I. to extend their powers upon that subject so as to come up to the 

[326] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

- Nemine contra dicente — if it is n c d. 
[327] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 120. 

2 Madison's letter, dated Jan. 22, is in his Writings, II. 222. 
26 



300 Continental Congress 

recommendation — being taken up it was delay 'd and protracted by its 
advocates, particularly Mr. Pinckney and ultimately (there being but 7. 
States present for it) postpon'd to take up a motion of his own, to the 
same effect, but in different language ; this is now under consideration and 
will probably pass today. This subject hath imploy'd Congress for several 
days, so that nothing else hath been before them since the arrival of 
Mr. Lee : 3 . . . . 



328. David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush. 1 

Xi:w York Feby. nth 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress are doing very little. Last week Harry Lee made the 
8th State, before we never exceeded seven. No State to the Southward 
of Pennsylvania is represented excepting South Carolina and Virginia. 
Of course we can do none of the more important business. 2 We are [at] 
present framing a new recommendation to pass the impost and to enable 

3 See the Journals. Feb. 3, 7, 8, 13, 15; also nos. 333, 337, post. Cf. nos. 320, 322. 
ante. In connection with this subject Congress had under consideration Feb. 8 a memorial 
of the charge d'affaires of France relative to the indebtedness of the United States to 
that power. Otto's memorial, dated Nov. 30, 1784 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 
194), was referred to the board of treasury Dec. 30, and the board made its report Feb. 8. 
Jay's reply to Otto, Nov. 30, is ibid,, p. 199. See also Jay's report Mar. 9, ibid., p. 204. 
In the Journals, Mar. 1. is inserted the skeleton of a motion by Charles Pinckney, endorsed 
as having been referred to the secretary for foreign affairs to report, and the latter'-. 
report was made Mar. 9. An explanatory editorial note states that the business was that 
of a postal convention between the United States and France, and cites the Journals, 
Feb. 21. There is no entry of this character under Feb. 21, but under Feb. 25 is a report 
of the secretary for foreign affairs bearing the date Feb. 21. with regard to Otto's 
communication of Nov. 28 {Dipt. Corr. U. S. A.. 1783-1789, I. 184) relative to a "Plan 
of a Treaty for the Correspondence of Letters between the Post Offices of France and 
those of the United States ". This report was " Referred back to the Secy, for foreign 
Affairs to report ". and his report was made Mar. 29 (see the Journals). Further evidence 
that Pinckney's motion of Mar. 1 did not refer to Otto's memorial of Nov. 28 but to that 
of Nov. 30 is a report by Secretary Jay Mar. 9, which is not however found in the 
Journals but is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 204. The report quotes Pinck- 
motion as follows : " That the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be directed to inform tin* 
Charge d'Affaires of France that Congress have received his late memorial. That the 
subject thereof is under their consideration, and that they will use every endeavor in their 
power to comply fully with their public engagements." Jay suggests in his report that it 
would be " more proper to convey what Congress may think proper to communicate to a 
foreign sovereign through their own Minister at his Court, than through his Minister 
residing at theirs ", and proposes that a copy of the memorial be sent to Jefferson. 
" with orders to assure his most Christian Majesty that Congress are using their utmost 
endeavors to fulfill all their engagements; and that although they regard all the j> 
creditors with an equal eye. yd as they find themselves particularly called upon by grati- 
tude, as well as by justice, to convince liis Majesty of their regard for both, the 
determined to make the stipulated payments with as much punctuality and as little del., 
circumstances not in their power to control may permit ". He further suggests that he be 
permitted "to acquaint M. Otto with the substance of the above instruction, that he may 
be relieved from the anxiety which the apparent silence of Congress on the subject would 
naturally give him ". It is noted in the Journals under Mar. 9 that such a report was 
referred to a committee (Pinckney. King and Lawranee) and that on Apr. 10 tin 
mittee was discharged. This doubtless means that Congress chose to keep silent on the 
subject. There appears to be no record that Jay was even authorized to relieve Otto's 
anxiety. 

1328] J Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch. Rush MSS. 

2 See nos. 319, 322, ante. 






February, 1786 301 

us to pay our debts. 3 There is a languor in the States that forebodes 
ruin. The present Congress for want of more States has not power to 
coin a copper. In 1775 there was more patriotism in a village than there 
is now in the 13 states. 

329. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York, Feb. nth 1786. 
Sir, 

Presuming that the Journals of Congress are transmited monthly by 
the secy, and that you had seen their determination on your request for 
cannon etc. has made me silent thereon. But admitting a possibility that 
you may not have received them induces me to inclose a copy of the reso- 
lution which passed on the same. 2 

Congress are officially informed that two agents were sent to Algeirs 
and Morrocco in the beginning of October with sufficient power to con- 
clude a treaty of amity with these nations and hope by the next packett to 
hear its effect. 3 .... 

330. Nathan Dane to Theodore Sedgwick. 1 

New York, Feb. n, 1785 [1786.] 
Dear Sir, 

I received your letter dated on your way home. I should have wrote 
you before this, but I have been waiting for a fuller representation of the 
States in Congress and for the more important business to come forward, 
neither of which have taken place as I wished, there were only seven 
States assembled till the first inst. since we have had eight. Dr. Johnson 
proposes to go home next week 2 which will probably reduce us to seven 
for we have no evidence to be depended upon that any o'r Gentleman from 
Connecticut or that the delegates from the States unrepresented will be 
here at present, we have done little or no business since you left us and 
formed no interesting determinations, this inattention this negligence and 
torpidity in some of the States in administring our government will ruin 
us — if suffered to continue, but as I hope a better mode than this of con- 
versing with you on the subjects of politics and public affairs soon, 

3 See no. 327, ante, and no. 333. past. 
[329] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York; Library of 
Congress, N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 Presumably the resolve of Nov. 2, 1785. See no. 230, ante. 

3 See nos. 273, 315, ante, 364, 374, 380, 388, 395, post. The letter contains two 
further paragraphs, one touching upon the negotiations with the Indians (see no. 316, ante), 
the other referring to his letter of Dec. 19 (no. 307, ante) and the provision of funds. 

[33°] 1 Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

2 Johnson's diary records that he was " at Congress " every day that Congress 
was in session from Feb. 1 to 15, except on the 4th, when he was "at Comm'ee ". The 
5th and 1 2th were Sundays, and on the nth he notes, "No Congress". Under Feb. 10 
he has jotted down what appears to be " Mary'd ", probably to be interpreted as noting 
the attendance that day of William Hindman of Maryland. Johnson was absent from 
Feb. 16 to Mar. 9. See nos. 336, 350, past. 



302 Continental Congress 

I forbear making any observations on them at present, in point of facts 
nothing new or unusual has taken place, we have reason to think there is 
little or no probability that this State will adopt the impost, the people 
here seem to be contracting their ideas in matters of government instead 
of expanding them. 

Mr. Gorham remains at Mrs. Ellsworths Mr. King has moved to Mr. 
Osgood's, things are at our house as you left them. 3 as to Mr. Hancock we 
have not heard a word from him as Congress or individuals.* 

P. S. I shall do myself the honor and pleasure to write to you again as 
soon as there shall be any prospect of the interesting business of Congress 
coming forward. 

331. Nathan Dane to Thomas Dwight. 1 

New York. Feb. 1 1. 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I should have wrote to you before this had my situation furnished me 
with anything worth communicating, for want of a fuller representation 
of the States since I have been here but little business of Consequence has 
been done by Congr. — and but few interesting subjects brought forward 
or examined, we have of course been confined to the dull but necessary 
business of examining the past doings of Congr. on their Journals and 
collecting information from the files of the several appendent offices. I 
have nearly the same opinion of our federal affairs I had when T left 
you at Boston, except in this the federal Government may not be admin- 
istred with so much attention and energy even as I expected, while in 
fact the machinery of it is of such a nature as to require in those who 
administer it the greatest candor industry and perseverence. many of 
the gentlemen in Congress from the Southward have reed, polite educa- 
tions and possess abilities that at first appear brilliant and plausible bul 
not very well adapted to the managing of our forms of Government - their 
information in the essential parts of it does not appear to me to be suff'y 
extensive nor their ideas well and maturely digested their arguments pr< po- 
sitions and observations often at first appear plausible but they seldom 
bear that Strict enquiry they must and will undergo in Congress, the 
many amusements and multitude of social forms, the unsubstantial eti- 
quette of society in this City are not very favourable to the industry of 
men not naturally inclined to it. 2 

I hardly need tell you I hope our Genl. Court will pass the late requisi- 
tion of Congr. and adopt it. I think they must be convinced of the neces- 
sity of doing it. I wish them to be possessed of this idea and what is to 

• Sedgwick had first attended on Dec. 12 and is recorded as in attendance Dec. 24. 
Just when he took his departure does not appear. Preceding the words " at our house " 
the word " quiet " is erased, and following this sentence Dane wrote, then crossed out the 
sentence, " I am here at our lodgings alotu-." 

* See nos. 296, 308, 326, ante, and no. 348, post. 
[331] ' Library of Congress, Personal, Dam-. 

2 Cf. no. 332, post. 



February, 1786 303 

their honor, that the example of Massa. has a very Great influence upon 
the o'r States — if the[y] should pass over or reject that requisition, there 
are many States in the Union which would think themselves quite excused 
for doing nothing federal, the policy laws and conduct of each State is con- 
sidered merely relatively and is esteemed good or bad as they appear in 
the comparison with those of the o'r States. Massa. is considered as the 
moving cause in some measure in the late and great revolution, the delib- 
erate and firm manner in which she has conducted her policy formed her 
laws regulated her finances and administred Justice since the peace and 
the disinterested manner in which her merch. interest have urged the 
impost systems etc., and the part she has held in the fed. Govern't com- 
pared with most of the other States have given her a degree of respecta- 
bility that every other State acknowledges, we are considered as a fed- 
eral State and expected in some degree to move among the first. But it 
may be asked shall we always bear the burden of labor and expence in 
conducting our Common affairs, my idea is that the large States Massa. 
Connecticut Pennsylv. Virginia etc. are disposed to unite and to mature 
and strengthen government and will have it in their power to induce the 
small and at present delinq't States of Georgia N Carolina etc. to alter 
their conduct that those small States must soon feel their dependence on 
the union and see their danger and ruin in withholding the assistance. 3 

be kind enough sir to give my respects to Mr. Merrick, to Mrs. Archi- 
bald and the family and our particular friends whom you will see in 
Boston where I expect this will find you. let me know if you have leisure 
how you do how affairs go in Massa. etc. 

332. Nathan Dane to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York, Feby. 11, 1786. 
Sir, 

When I had the honor three months since of proposals to communicate 
such interesting matters as our respective situations might afford or 
require I did not expect from a want of a fuller representation of the 
States in Congress that so little during that time would occur in the 
administration of federal affairs worth communicating, this inattention 
and delay in many of the States is not only a burden and expence to 
those who. attend but ruinous in their consequences to the federal Govern- 
ment itself, it appears to me that a government formed as our[s] is on 
the broad basis of liberty and in the administration of which the rights 
of every man is considered as valuable to him and his assent to be had by 
himself or representative to every measure nothing but candor political 
industry, and perseverance can effect the ends and purposes of it. on its 
valuable principles the people at large are to be led and persuaded to adopt 
measures and in many instances a great majority but men never will 
assent till they are informed, and convinced of the justice and propriety 
of the measure or system proposed. Congress since the year 1780 have 

3 Cf. no. 332, post. 
[332] x Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 



304 Continental Congress 

submitted to the consideration of the States several important systems and 
propositions to which they have asked their consent, the adoption of these 
are considered as essential to the preservation of the Union and to enable 
Cong, to administer the Gover't of the Confederacy for the benefit of 
the people and for obtaining the ends of its institution most of them are 
adopted by a majority of the States yet none of them carried into effect, 
some States are found who have objections to the one or the o'r of them 
R. Island, N. York and Georgia to the impost system, many of the States 
have objections to adopting the supplementary funds. N. Hampshire 
R. Island etc. object to the proposed alteration of the 8 art. of the Con- 
fed'n. Delaware So. Carolina and Georgia have not granted Commercial 
powers to Congress agreeable to their recommendation of Apr. 30, 1784. 
it is to be presumed that the objections made by those States to adopting 
those federal measures are esteemed by them to be substantial and will be 
so considered till they are convinced of the Contrary, this Congress and 
the other States must do — a task undoubtedly that requires attention and 
perseverance. 2 but many other important matters, too many to name par- 
ticularly, have lain long before Congress undetermined because some of the 
States do not keep up their representation, a government whose power is 
quite defective in two material points, that wants power to regulate the 
Commerce of the union and to call forth its resources for the purpose of 
doing justice, that wants attention and to a certain degree energy in admin- 
istring the powers it possesses, must decline, if the States do not give 
more power to Congress the States must invent some means of obliging 
their Delegates to attend that the powers at least may be exercised by that 
body timely and to effect which it possesses by the Confederation, and the 
States must adopt and enforce the principle that Delegates are amenable 
to Congress so long as they are continued in the Delegation by their State. 
perhaps it will be difficult to get another requisition thro Congress till 
certain public accounts are settled and the great inequalities occasioned 
by the late war in the advances of some States and delinquencies of others 
are put more in a way of being ratified [ sic] . 

I hardly need mention to you I hope our General Court will readily 
adopt the late requisition of Cong. I take it for granted they see t he- 
expediency of doing it. we must yet pursue these ineffectual measures 
of requisitions which for 4 years past on an average have brought into 
the federal Treasury only about 600,000 d'rs a year and for the last year 
not more than 400,000. the people of this State, especially the Dutch and 
their legislature reason on such narrow principles that it yet remains 
doubtful whether they will adopt the impost or any o'r federal - 
tern of revenue that the other States will approve of. But Massa. is 
considered as a federal state and her example has great influence <>n most 
of the States in the L'nion. if she should reject that requisition I doubt 
whether there are not many states who would think themselves excused in 
rejecting all federal measures. I wish our people to be possessed of an idea 

2 Cf. nos. 317, 320, 321. ante, and no. 331. pott. See also a letter from Benjamin 
Lincoln to Rufus King dated at Hinijham Feb. 11, in Life of King, I. I 



February, if 8 6 305 

I am quite confirmed in since I have been here, that the govern't and State 
of Massa. is considered in the o'r States as very respectable and worthy 
of their imitation. 3 .... 

Another thing I want our people to bear in mind is that they stepped 
forward in the late revolution had a principal hand in forming the Con- 
federacy and bringing the U. States into existence, that they had a large 
share in forming their body politic so far as it is formed and its parts 
organised, that we have a thousand struggles yet to make before our 
complex machine of Government can be compleated and acquire a tone of 
energy suff't for obtaining the ends intended, it must be cautiously mended 
in some parts and put into practise and operation in others — I think the 
amendments proposed and adopted by some of the States are judicious 
and ought to be steadily pursued, other nations who have been so for- 
tunate as to get good goverments after their labor experience and at- 
tempts of Centuries have thought themselves well off. why should we 
despair because in this infant State of our national existence we find some 
perhaps material defects in our federal polity, we are at a loss how to 
govern our Commerce, and how to call forth our resources for federal 
purposes, more than £ of the Community have agreed that powers should 
be vested in Congress for these purposes in a certain degree, these are im- 
portant subjects and if we attend to the progress of our ideas on them we 
shall conclude in favor of succeeding finally, many years ago when the 
articles of confederation were under the Consideration of the States it 
was proposed by the State of N. Jersey that Congr. should have full power 
to regulate trade internally and externally and to lay Duties of impost etc. 
these propositions were then rejected by almost every State in the Union, 
even their Delegates in Congress appeared pointedly against them.* but 
experience has faithfully taught us that we were then mistaken, and we 
may venter to affirm that more than f of the Community have changed 
their opinions, since far more than T 8 T of the Union have adopted the 
impost system, and g states including the largest have granted to Cong. 
Com'l powers as fully as they recom'd it to be done, will not experience 
the industry and influence of so large a part in time bring those who now 
stand out to adopt the same sentiments. I think if Cong, federal States 
and federal men seriously persevere and pursue prudent and sound policy 
their success is certain, all the States have and will without difficulty 
adopt the impost except N. York, all have and will give those Com'l 
powers without difficulty except So. Carolina, her members here say she 
will, those two States may stand out perhaps some years but if the federal 
part of the Community pursue steadily their measures people will grow 
very uneasy with those States for it will be natural for people to impute 
nat'l calamities to the failure of the measures which on the conviction of 

3 Some further remarks on the part which Massachusetts had taken in the 
Revolution are here omitted. 

4 A representation of the state of New Jersey containing such a proposal was laid 
before Congress June 23, 1778, is spread on the Journals, June 25, and was that day 
rejected by a vote of " 3 ayes, 6 noes, one divided ". See also the New Jersey act of 
authorization, in the Journals, Nov. 25, 1778. 



306 Continental Congress 

experience they now adopt, and Clouds of Danger must gather over the 
heads of those States. Connecticut and N. Jersey who import thro. X. 
York complain loudly now that their articles of Consumption are taxed 
by N. York to her sole emolument, they will grow uneasy, make severe 
laws of retaliation, and soon Connecticut Vermont and N. Jersey must 
press N. York and annihilate her if she is not protected by the federal 
Gover't. but the Cond'n of that protection will be that she become a fed- 
eral State the U. States have by the most manly and astonishing 

exertions raise [d] themselves to a point of veiw that attracts the eyes and 
attention as it were of the whole world, they have taken rank among 
nations and formed connexions with many of them, we have venter on 
our own political abilities and struck out a form of Govern't in some 
measure novel a govern't but little understood by even our allies, viewed 
with curiosity by most nations and by some supposed to be chimerical — 
our enemies in the B. Dominions are and probably will [be] very industri- 
ous in all parts of the world in making us appear chimerical, faithless, rest- 
less and ridiculous as a nation, disunited and unable to support the sys- 
tem we have adopted, to dissolve our union under these circumstances to 
become hostile to each o'r and a prey to the nations of Europe to me would 
be infinitely worse than annihilation, but this is not all we have a good 
government in the main to preserve one that is bottom'd on excellent 
principles. 8 



333. James Monroe to James Madiso-n. 1 

New York Feby. 1 1, 1 
Dear Sir, 

In my last I mentioned to you, the subject of the impost was reviv \1 
and that a report of a Committee had given place to a motion of Mr. Pinck- 
ney, the latter being still before the house; the report, and motion witli a 
report from the Bd. of treasury to the same effect have since been com- 
mitted, in which state the business now lies. I enclose you a paper contain- 
ing the report. 2 It is doubted whether in any event this state will adopt it. 
those members elected in opposition to such as were turn'd out, for their 
opposition to this measure, have I hear imbib'd their sentiments and act 
under them. They are it is said possess'd to great amount (I mean the 
leaders of the party) of publick securities, and doubtful of their payment 
by federal exertion, seem inclin'd to pursue the course Pena. latterly did 
and provide for it, by establishing State funds. 8 The more extensive the 

6 At the foot of the last page Dane has written what appears to be " Hon. S. A." 

Beneath the letter is also the notation, "Feb. 1 1, 1786, Sedgwick, Dwight, etc. Copies of 

letters to". The notation was doubtless intended for the whole group of letters of Feb. IX. 

[333] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 122; Bancroft, Formation 

of the Constitution, I. 483. 

2 Sec no. 327, ante, and no. 337, post; also the Bibliographical Notes, Feb. 2, 
Journals, p. 958. 

»C/. nos. 316,317, ante. 



February, 1786 307 

funds of the State and the more fully they exclude the citizens of other 
States and foreigners from such provision, the better of course for the 
party 4 

334. Nathan Dane to Justin Ely. 1 

New York Feb. 13 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my arrival here I have taken an opportunity to converse with the 
Secretary at war respecting the powder you mentioned to me being at 
Springfield in a perishable situation, etc. he tells me great pains have 
been taken to try the quality of it, to dry, cleanse and keep it in order, 
and that from a late examination of it it is found to be, with sifting some 
parts of it, in good order and will retain its strength. 

As to other affairs here I have been waiting for some interesting busi- 
ness to be compleated by Congress that I might have something to com- 
municate to my friends worth their attention, but for want of a fuller 
representation Congress has compleated, or even brought forward or ex- 
amined but very little business daily occurrences we have but few, 

federal affairs appear nearly as I expected to find them, gentlemen who 
have been, since the peace, in our Legislature and attended to the affairs 
of the Union, I believe have in general a pretty just idea of them ; whence 
I make but few general observations about them, to try friends in that 
Situation, however there is as little energy and perseverance in admin- 
istring the federal government as I expected, the States must find means 
to compel their members to attend — The non attendance of some States 
not only weakens the government by rendering it dilatory and inefficient 
in its administration, but throws an unequal expence on those States which 
do attend. 2 

the policy of our State is extensive, manly and liberal and her adminis- 
tration Just, wise and excellent compared with many of the other States 
particularly this. 

How far the States have adopted the Continental impost System, the 
proposed alteration of the 8th art. of the Confederation, and have vested 
Congress with commercial powers, you will see by official papers trans- 
mitted to our Legislature, they must all I think if properly pursued be 
finally adopted. 8 

4 In a postscript Monroe alludes to his approaching marriage. See nos. 335, 336, 
post. A letter from Monroe to Madison Feb. 16, probably an addition to this letter, 
has not been found. In his reply, Mar. 19 {Writings, II. 231), Madison quotes from 
such a letter : " ' The Question of policy ', you say. ' is whether it will be better to 
correct the vices of the Confederation by recommendation gradually as it moves along, 
or by a Convention. If the latter should be determined on the powers of the Virga. 
Com's'rs are inadequate.' " Madison adds, " If anything comes of the Convention it will 
probably be of a permanent not a temporary nature, which I think will be a great point." 
See no. 3 SO, post. 
[334] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 Cf. no. 332, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 320, 322, ante. See also Dane's motion Feb. 27 and the committee report 
Mar. 8 {Journals). With regard to Georgia, concerning whose action there were doubts 
and anxieties, see a letter from Abraham Baldwin to Charles Thomson, Feb. 14 (Library 



308 Continental Congress 

335. Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

New York 16th Feby. 1785 [1786.] 
My dear Sir, 

By way of introduction of a correspondence with a character I love and 
respect so sincerely, I enclose a report passed yesterday by Congress, 
the only material business done lately and which proves the dreadful situa- 
tion of our foederal government. 2 The report speaks so fully on the 
subject that I withhold remarks which might solicitude for the public give 
birth to [sic.y 

We have received some advices from our agent in Madeira * which af- 
ford some ground to hope success will attend our negotiation with the 
Barbary powers tho when you consider the enmity which certainly pre- 
vails in the British Cabinet towards us, their influence with those pirates 
and our scanty purse, I profess my fears preponderate. Indian affairs do 
not wear a promising countenance — an additional evil to our many evils, 
if the spring should open with a war with the savages. 

Only eight states are represented — Grayson joined us two days ago, and 
Monroe became benedict this evening. 

336. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

N York Feby. 2 1 . 1 786. 
Dear Doc'r, 

Nothing of Consequence has occur'd since your Departure a the As- 
sembly of this State after puzling themselves some Days, about the time 
they should elect Delegates to serve for, the constitutional right they had 
to elect etc. etc. etc. Finally determined to erase from their journals all 

of Congress, Thomson Papers, vol. II.; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary 
Papers, I. 202). Baldwin there mentions a number of acts passed in compliance with 
the requests of Congress, stating that "there are but two of all the recommendations 
of Congress left undetermined, vis. cession of lands and commerce ". The recommendation 
of April 30, 1784, he remarks, had been favorably reported to the house, "but as the 
result of Mr. Munroe's motion respecting the 9th article of confederation was not known, 
and the opposition appeared to be great, it was thought most adviseable not to enter the 
lists on that subject till it had been more digested in Congress and the amount of their 
wishes be known, that we might bring ourselves to the right point at once ". He adds the 
reflection that " there is no place where the clashing of State interest is so strongly marked 
as on the floor of Congress ". Concerning the motion of Monroe to which Baldwin 
alludes sec nos. 101 (note 4), 106, ante. 

(335] ' I-ibrary of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See nos. 320, 321, 332, ante, 337. 340, post. Henry Lee wrote to Washington 
the same day : " Congress impressed with the lamentable effects which await the United 
States from their adherence to temporary and disunited exertions, again have addressed 
the states. I enclose it" (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washing- 
ton, ed. Sparks, IV. 126). 

8 The word " might " should precede the word " give " ; but Lee wrote the sentence 
as here printed. 

4 See the Journals, Feb. 15, Apr. 13, May 1, 19, and June 6 (pp. 76 n., 184 n.. 224 n., 
n.. 332 n). The commercial agent at the island of Madeira was John Marsden 
Pintard, appointed Oct. 31, 1783. 

6 See no. 333, note 4. ante, and no. 336, post. 
[3361 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 113. 

2 See no. 330, note 2, ante. 



February, 1/86 309 

their proceedings on that Subject since the commencement of their present 
Session, consequently their former Members join'd us this Day. 3 

Intelligence from N. Carolina announces the Election of Delegates, your 
discreet friend Mr. Cummins is among the elect. No great hopes of a rein- 
forcement from Maryland soon. Genl. St Clair join'd us yesterday in 
room of Mr. Pettit return'd home, and mr. wilson is to be here this week, 
so you see your Return speedily is indispensible, and indeed you are a very 
wick'd Man to run away and leave me a young Pullet in the Care of so 
many gay Gallants, who at the hazard of every particle of puritanic 
Credit I was possess'd off have led me to the Concert, in future I shall 
not have the Impudence at an Election of Deacons to appear on the 
hustings. 

Will you suffer me to beseige Mr. Wilson, on the score of our western 
Cession, 4 as soon as I can feel out his hobby horse? You know we are 
twa bonny scotch Lads and very national, the weak things of this world 
often confound the strong; would it be amiss to obtain his Influence in 
our favor, even by a little verbal abuse of Wyoming? 

The Night after you left us our freind Monro was married and next 
morning decamp'd for Long Island with the little smiling Venus in his 
arms, where they have taken house, to avoid fulsome Complements dur- 
ing the first Transports and we have not as yet seen him in Town 

Feby. 22d. This morning no Congress. N'w York have again recon- 
sidered and come to a Vote to elect Delegates to continue a certain time, 
tis very probable they may reconsider this vote before the Day arrives 
in which they have agreed to make the choice, which is the beginning of 
next week. 

Have as yet heard nothing of Mr. Sturges, and do not expect to see him 
this Evening if he comes in the Stage, as it stops in the Bowry ; 5 . . . . 

337. The Secretary of Congress to the, States of Rhode Island, 
Delaware, and North Carolina. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

February 24th, 1786. 
Sir, 

On the 15th of this month I forwarded to your Excellency an act of 
Congress of that date touching, the system of general Revenue recom- 
mended in the Act of the 18th of April 1783, and a schedule of the Dutch 
and French Loans shewing the periods of their redemption with the 
Annual Interest payable thereon, copies of which I now enclose. 2 

3 The Journals merely record New York as "present" Feb. 21. See the addition 
of Feb. 22. 

4 See no. 279, ante, and no. 381, post. 

5 Jonathan Sturges did not attend until July 12. 

[337] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 26; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 543. 

2 Thomson's circular letter of Feb. 15 is in the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 22, 
and is printed in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 527. In that letter Thomson said: "As the 
United States in Congress assembled are exceedingly anxious that the several States 
should come to a decision on this subject as soon as possible, Your Excellency I hope will 



310 Continental Congress 

I am sorry to inform you that your State is still unrepresented. Early 
in November I intimated to your Excellency that there were sundry 
matters which might require the attentive Consideration of a full Congress. 
The State of the representation which I have transmitted monthly will 
shew that since the first Monday in November there have seldom been 
even seven States represented, and never above eight, so that it was 
impossible to take up the great business of the Confederacy. What the 
result may be of this inattention of the States to the concerns of the Union 
is uncertain, but I hope your Excellency will use your endeavors to urge 
the attendance of your delegates as speedily as possible, that the bad 
Consequences, if any, may not be imputed to your State.' 

338. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

February 28th, 1786. 

On the 9th day of June last I had the honor of transmitting an Act passed 
by Congress the 7th of that month recommending to the several States to 
make provision in a manner pointed out in the Act for Officers, Soldier^ 
or Seamen who have been disabled in the service of the United States. 
As I take it for granted that the Legislature of your State has complied 
with this recommendation, I have to request the favour of your Excel- 
lency to send me a copy of the Law passed on the occasion. And as it is 
necessary that the United States in Congress Assembled should be in- 
formed of the sum which this provision will yearly add to the expences of 
the Union, in order that they may include it in their annual requisition 1 
have further to request that your Excellency would be pleased to order 
a return to be made to me of the number provided for and the amount of 
the annual allowance made them that I may make report thereof to 
Congress. 

Should it be the case that your State has not yet made the provision 
recommended, I trust your Excellency will take the earliest opportunity 
of submitting this matter to the consideration of the Legislature, and for 
this purpose, I enclose a Copy of the Act. 

Vide next page, for Letter to Pensylvania on this subject. 2 

take the earliest opportunity of laying the enclosed papers before the Legislature of your 
State." See nos. 327, 333, ante. In the report of the board of treasury Feb. 8 it is 
mentioned that a statement of the foreign loans is annexed, and it was this " Schedule of 
the French and Dutch Loans" that Thomson transmitted. See Bibliographical Notes, 
the Journals, p. 958. 

• See Charles Johnson to Governor Caswell Jan. 14, and Caswell to Johnson 
Feb. 22, Apr. 9, N. C. Stale Recs., XVIII. 503, 538. 593 ; also James White to Caswell 
Feb. 1, and Caswell to White Feb. 6, March. 10, 22, ibid., pp. 518,522, 569, 582. Cf. no. 322, 
ante, and no. 340, post. 

[338] " Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 27; N. C. State Recs., XVI 1 1. 
544. 

2 The letter appears to have been sent to all the states except Pennsylvania. The 
letter to Pennsylvania (Letter-Book, p. 28; Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 745) does not contain 
the last paragraph, and in place of the second sentence of the first paragraph ("As . . . . 
occasion ") is the following: " In the laws transmitted to this office, I find the legislature 
of your State has passed an Act for this purpose. But as it is necessary , etc. Cf. no. 342, 
post. 



March, 1786 311 

339. John Kean to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs 

(John Jay). 1 
Sir, 

Congress by their resolution of the 3d May 1784 resolved that in- 
structions should be transmitted to the minister of the United States at 
the Court of Madrid, to use his best endeavours in behalf of the State of 
So. Carolina, to obtain adequate compensation for the service performed 
by the So. Carolina frigate in co-operating with the Spanish general and 
forces, in the expedition against and reduction of Providence and the 
Bahama Islands, in the year 1782 etca. 

The office of foreign affairs being deranged I believe that this resolution 
has not been attended to. I shall be glad to receive any information 
respecting the matter. 2 

Feby. 28th, 1786. 

340. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

March 1st, 1786. 
Sir, 

As many States in the Union continued to be unrepresented in Congress 
or to be represented by only two Members notwithstanding the many 
recommendations of Congress for remedying these defects particularly 
those of 1st November 1783 and the 19th of April 1784 and as from the 
want of a compleat representation the great interests of the Union had 
frequently been and continued to be neglected or delayed, and the Con- 
federation itself or the administration thereof might be considered as the 
cause of evils which solely resulted from an incompleat representation, 
Congress, judging it incumbent on them to prevent opinions so derogatory 
to their honor and so dangerous to the Public Welfare, did on the 17th 
August last pass a resolve whereby it became the duty of the Secretary 
of Congress once in every Month to transmit to the Legislatures of the 
respective States a list of the States represented and of those unrepre- 
sented in Congress and of the Members from each State. The object of 
this resolution was that effectual measures might from time to time be 
taken by such States as were unrepresented or represented only by two 
Members, to remedy these defects. 

In the execution of this duty I have had the honor every Month since 
of transmitting to your Excellency a Monthly statement of the represen- 
tation of the States in Congress to be laid before your Legislature. The 
statement which accompanies this and which I have to request the favour 

[339] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., f. 621. 

2 Jay transmitted the resolution of May 3, 1784, to Carmichael Mar. 14, 1786, 
remarking: " The object of it is interesting to South Carolina, and you will doubtless press 
the attention of the Court to it in such manner and degree as may most conduce to the 
attainment of it " (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 306). See nos. 346, 538, 546, post. 

[340] * Library of Congress, Misc. MSS. (addressed, "His Excellency The Governor 
of Georgia"); N. J. State Lib.; N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 29 ; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 361 ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 550. 



312 Continental Congress 

of your Excellency to communicate to the Legislature, is for the Month 
of February last. By this and the three other statements transmitted 
since the meeting of Congress on the first Monday in November last your 
Excellency and the Legislature will see that there has not been for a 
single day a number of States assembled sufficient to proceed on the 
great business of the Union, indeed for half the time not a number suffi- 
cient, to do more than adjourn from day to day. 

I beg leave to add that in consequence of information just received, 
business of the greatest importance is now before Congress which requires 
the fullest representation. I hope therefore that your Excellency will 
urge the attendance of the Delegates for your State with all possible 
expedition. 2 

341. The Secretary of Congress to Cyrus Griffin. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congri 
~. March 1, 1786. 

On the 13th day of last month T had the honor of transmitting to you 
an Act passed by Congress in consequence of your Letter of 6 January 
wherein they express their sense of the ability, fidelity and attention <>f 
the Judges of the Court of Appeals in the discharge of the duties of their 
Office. Your Letter of the 7th February has been since received and 
duly communicated, but the Act above mentioned was considered as a 
full answer. Although your wishes are not fully gratified, yet it must 
yield you a sensible pleasure to have so honourable a testimonial of your 
ability and fidelity. I herewith enclose you a duplicate of the Act, and 
am [etc.] 2 

342. The Secretary of Congress to George Read. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congri 
<-.. March ist, 

Having occasion to write to you for the pur|>ose of forwarding a 
resolution of Congress expressive of their sense of the ability, fidelity 

2 The schedule of representation for February is in the Library of Congress, 
Misc. MSS., and is printed in N. C. Stale Recs., XVIII. 552. See Caswell to ThoniM>n 
Mar. 12, ibid., p. 573, and to various delegates (White, Nash, Bloodwrtli. Johnson, and 
Blount). Mar. 10 to Apr. 9, ibid., pp. 569, 570, 577, 581, 582, 588, 593, 594. 

[341 j 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 31*. 

2 Griffin's letter of Jan. 6, which inquired concerning the stoppage of his pay as 
one of the judges of the Court of Appeals, was referred on Jan. 24 to a committee who 
reported Feb. 8, and Congress on Feb. 9 passed the resolve to which Thomson refers. 
(iriftin's letter of Feb. 7 has not been found. Thomson's letter to Griffin Feb. 13 
merely to transmit the resolve of Feb. 9 (Letter- Book, p. 22). On Mar. 1 Thomson sjso 
wmte to John Lowell rod George Read, the other judges of the Court of Appeals, 
informing them of the action taken by Congress in consequence of Griffin's inquiry and 
transmitting the resolve (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 31). A letter from Read to 
Thomson Apr. 8 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIX.. (pressing bis thanks 

to Congress f<>r their approbation, was read Aug. 24. He had been "totally uninformed " 
of Griffin's letter and even now could "only guess at the purport thereof". See no. J4J, 
post. 

[342] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 32; Life of Read, p. 308. 



March, 1786 313 

and attention of the Judges of the Court of Appeals, 2 I cannot omit the 
opportunity of requesting your assistance in a matter that concerns the 
honor of your State and the welfare of the Union. Since the beginning 
of November last your State has been unrepresented in Congress. I have 
written frequently to the President, but whether my Letters have failed 
to reach him or from his living out of the way of the Post his answers 
have miscarried or from some other cause I know not, I have never 
received an answer to any of my Letters. 3 The present situation of 
public affairs requires a full representation in Congress of all the States. 
I must therefore request you would exert your influence in urging the 
attendance of your Delegates as speedily as possible. I have further to 
observe that Congress by an Act of the 27th May last requested " The 
Legislatures of the several States to cause the services of the Agents 
appointed for the purpose of receiving and distributing the Certificates 
of the Pay master Genl. in a final settlement of the balances due to the 
Officers and Soldiers of their respective lines, to be examined and to make 
them such allowance as they may think them entitled to and charge the 
same to the United States ". 

On the 7th June 1785 they passed an Act recommending to the several 
States to make provision for Officers, Soldiers or Seamen who have been 
disabled in the service of the United States in a manner pointed out in 
the Act; and by an Act of the 27th July 1785 they directed the Secretary 
of Congress to apply to the Executives of the several States for thirteen 
Copies of the Legislative Acts thereof since the 1st September 1774, one 
Copy of which to be retained for the use of Congress and one set to be 
delivered to the Delegates of each State (except the State whose acts 
are delivered) for the use of the Legislature thereof: and at the same 
time they directed the Secretary to procure and distribute in the same 
way the Acts which might thereafter be passed, to the end that every 
State being thus informed may have the fullest confidence in the other 
States and derive the advantages which may result from the joint wisdom 
of the whole. 

On the 27th September 1785 they made a requisition on the States 
for the payment of the interest of the foreign and domestic debt and for 
the services of that year. On the 30th September They passed an Act 
regulating the Office of the Commissioners of the Continental Loan 
Offices in the several States making it part of their duty to receive the 
monies arising from Continental taxes in their respective States and to 
pay the interest due from the United States in the said States respectively ; 
and in the said Act recommended to the Legislatures of the several States 
to direct their Treasurers to transmit to the Board of Treasury a monthly 
abstract of all monies paid on account of the respective States to the 

2 See no. 341, note 2, ante. 

3 On Feb. 22, for instance, Thomson had written to President Van Dyke, men- 
tioning numerous letters to which he had had no reply, his delivery to Mr. Bedford of 
a copy of Massachusetts laws, and his inability to deliver copies of laws since received, 
for the reason that Delaware had not been represented since November. Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 24. 



314 Continental Congress 

Commissioners of the Continental Loan Offices distinguishing the dates 
and amounts of the payments and the sums paid in actual money from 
those in interest Certificates. And on the 12th October 1785 they passed 
a resolution earnestly calling on the States to compleat without delay the 
whole of their quotas of the requisitions of 4th September 1782 and 
27th and 28th April 1784, and requiring such of the States as were deficient 
in paying their respective quotas of the interest of the domestic debt 
pursuant to the said requisitions to collect and pay into the Public 
Treasury the amount of such deficiencies either in Certificates to be issued 
pursuant to the requisition of the 27th September for payment of the 
said interest, or in specie to be applied to the redemption of such Certi- 
ficates ; providing nevertheless that the sum to be paid into the Treasury in 
Interest Certificates as part of the requisition of April 1784 should not at 
any time exceed the proportion of facilities to be paid agreeably to that 
requisition. 

These several Acts I transmitted to the President; but have received 
no answer, I have therefore to request the favour of you, to use your 
endeavours that I may have an answer to these several transmissions. 
The best answer will be the Acts of the Legislature complying with the 
several recommendations Acts and requisitions. It is my earnest wish 
therefore that you would exert your interest and abilities, both which 
I know are great in prevailing with the Legislature to pass laws as speedily 
as possible in compliance and conformity with those several Acts if they 
have not already done it and then to use your interest in having them 
forwarded that I may make report thereof to Congress. I shall be still 
farther obliged if with these laws you can have the thirteen Copies sent 
on which are mentioned in the Act of 27th July. I should not be thus 
troublesome were I not fully convinced of your zeal in the cause of liberty 
and your ardent desire to preserve the honor and promote the happi 
of this infant Commonwealth. This I hope will be my apology. 4 

343. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

March 2d N. York, 1786. 
My dear GenL, 

I did myself the honor to write to you some days past: since which 
an Arabian stud horse has arrived in this city and has been announced 
in the gazettes a present to you, from his Catholic Majesty.* 

* Upon receipt of this letter Read wrote to Governor Van Dyke, Mar. 25 (Life of 
Read, pp. 401-404), and on Apr. 8 he replied at some length to Thomson's letter (ibid., 
pp. 407-412). Van Dyke's reply to Read, Apr. 7, is ibid., pp. 404-406. Van Dyke also 
wrote to Thomson Apr. 14, acknowledging receipt of sundry letters and explaining his 
delay in responding to the secretary. He further stated that he was transmitting by the 
Hon. John Patten, delegate to Congress for Delaware, all the laws of the state that could 
be procured (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 70, f. 785). The letter was read in Congress May I. 
[3431 1 library of Congress. Washington Papers. 

2 Lee's letter to Washington was dated Feb. 16. See no. 335, note 2, ante. The 

King of Spain made at the same time a present of a Spanish horse to Jay iijress 

gave Jay permission to accept it. See the Journals, Mar. 3. Thomson's notification of this 

nission is in the Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 295; ibid,, 

Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 35. Cf. no. 344, post. 



March, 1786 315 

.... Our foederal distresses gather fast to a point. New Jersey has 
refused the requisition, and will grant not a shilling, till New York accedes 
to the impost. 3 

Perhaps this intemperance in Jersey may bring this state to acquiesce 
in a system of finance long ago approved by ten states and whose opera- 
tion might have saved the difficultys which impend over the Union. 4 .... 



344. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Franklin. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

March 4th, 1786. 
Sir, 

The Monthly Statements, which have passed through your hands, of 
the representation in Congress since the first of November last will readily 
account for your not having yet received a full answer to your Letter 
of the 19th September last. With respect to that paragraph wherein you 
say " You received from the King at your departure the present of his 
picture set round with diamonds usually given to Ministers Plenipoten- 
tiary who have signed any treaties with that Court, and it is at the 
disposition of Congress " I have it in charge to inform you that Congress 
have no objection to your accepting and retaining the picture presented to 
you by his Most Christian Majesty. 2 

345. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

March 4th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
an act passed yesterday by the United States in Congress assembled, 
together with a Copy of their Recommendations of the 30th April 1784, 
which are again presented to the View of your State. 2 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 13, 15, Mar. 3, 6-8; also no. 348, note 3, post. 

* See Washington's reply Apr. 5, in Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 156. Cf. no. 374, 
post. 

[344] * Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. LV., no. 104; Library of Congress, 
Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 36. 

2 Franklin's letter of Sept. 19, 1785, addressed to Secretary Jay, is in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 398, and in Writings of Franklin (ed. Smyth), IX. 463. See the 
report of the secretary for foreign affairs in the Journals, Oct. 12. The action of Congress 
alluded to in the last sentence was through the adoption of a motion of Bayard Mar. 3. 
Cf. no. 343, note 2, ante. 

[3453 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 36 (Delaware, South Caro- 
lina, and Georgia) ; ibid., p. 38 (Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Maryland) ; ibid., p. 2,7 
(New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and North Carolina) ; N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's 
Papers ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 556. 

2 Four states, namely, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and Virginia, 
had enacted laws " conformable to the recommendations " of Congress of Apr. 30, 1784, 
therefore they are not included in any of these recommendations and earnest requests. 
The introductory paragraph in the letters to the other nine states is identical, except that, 
in the letter to Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Maryland, the last clause is, " which you 
will be pleased to communicate to the Legislature ". See the Journals, Mar. 3. 

27 



316 Continental Congress 

As a longer delay in complying with these Recommendations, must be 
attended with very great evils, the Legislature of your State is most 
earnestly called upon to grant powers conformable thereto. 

[The above constituted the letter to Delaware, South Carolina, and 
Georgia: in lieu of the second paragraph the following paragraph was 
sent to New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and North Carolina:] 

As a longer delay in complying with these recommendations, must be 
attended with great evils, and as the act passed by your State is so in- 
consonant to them, both in letter and spirit, that it cannot be deemed 
a complyance, the Legislature of your State is earnestly solicited to 
reconsider their act, and to make it agreeable to the recommendations 
of the 30th of April, 1784. 8 

[To Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and Maryland the following consti- 
tuted the second paragraph of the letter :] 

As the powers granted to Congress by the Several States in compliance 
with these Recommendations ought to commence at the same time and 
have the same duration, it is therefore recommended to the Legislature 
of your State to amend their act so that the term of fifteen years shall 
commence on the day that Congress shall begin to exercise the power 
granted. 

346. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (William Moultrie). 1 

New York, March 4, 1786. 
Sir, 

We did ourselves the honour of writing your excellency on the 6th tilt, 
since this Congress have deemed it necessary to make another application 
to the states, which have not complied in full with the recommendation 
of the 1 8th of April 1783, for investing the United States in Con^ 
assembled with the power of levying an impost, and for establishing 
supplementary funds in aid of the same, urging them to comply in full 
with the tenor of the said recommendation. The representation with the 
papers accompanying it, have been already officially transmitted by the 
secretary, we beg leave to refer your excellency to them for information 
upon this subject. 2 

We lately received from our commercial commissioners in Euroi*, 
a treaty of amity and commerce concluded by them with the minister of 
the King of Prussia, which will be published and transmitted to the 
several states as soon as ratified. 8 

Our legislature having in 1784, passed some resolutions directing an 
application to be made to the court of Spain for obtaining an adequate 
compensation for the service performed by the frigate South-Carolina, 

•Governor Caswell's reply, Apr. 3, is in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 500. 
[346] J New Jersey Gazette, May 1, 1786. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 15 ; also nos. 337. 340. 345, ante. 

8 The arrival of the treaty was reported by Secretary Jay Feb. 9, re fer red 
back to him for report, and that report, dated Mar. 9, is in the Journals, Mar. 10. The 
treaty is recorded under May 17. 



March, 1786 317 

in cooperating' with the Spanish forces in the expedition against the 
Bahamas, we think it necessary to request your excellency will furnish 
us with all such proofs and documents as it may be in your power to 
obtain, for grounding and supporting an application to the Court of Spain 
for the purpose. 4 

We shall be much obliged to you to direct the furnishing us with all 
the publick acts of the legislature at their present session, as soon as they 
are printed. 

We remain with respect, your excellency's most obedient servants 

Charles Pinckney 
David Ramsay 
John Kean 
His excellency William Moultrie, Esquire. 

347. Rufus King to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 5th March 1786. 
Sir, 

I intended by an earlier post to have acknowledged the honor of your 
excellency's letter of the nth ult. but from constant engagements have 
been prevented until this period, your excellency's sentiments touching 
the communication of the instruction to Mr. Adams at London, which 
I have the honor of transmitting to you, are in perfect correspondence 
with my ideas on that subject, and the instruction I hope will give satis- 
faction to the Persons immediately interested therein. I most sincerely 
wish that it was in my power to communicate any information that would 
be agreeable concerning the affairs of the confederacy, but that not being 
the case, I can only add, that I am with perfect Respect, your excellency's 
most obt. and most h'mbl servant 

Rufus King 

348. Nathaniel Gorham to James Warren. 1 

New York, March 6, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Your esteemed favour of the nth ulto. reed, and would observe in 
answer to the first part of it, that the Board of Treasury have (by order) 
laid before Congress a plan for expediting the settlement of the public 
Accounts by which plan four or five thousand dollars will be Annually 
saved, and Mr. Pennet will consiquently be discharged, and some other 
Person employed for a short time to bring the accounts in that quarter 
to a close. 2 but the great inattention and negligence of the States with 

4 See no. 339, ante, and no. 537, post. 
[347] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., III. 6. 
[348] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, II. 269. 

2 A report on revising the system of settling the accounts of the five great 
departments was rendered by the board of treasury Jan. 12, referred to a committee 
Jan. 25, and the report of that committee rendered Jan. 31. As adopted Mar. 24 the 



318 Continental Congress 

regard to their representation renders it impossible for Congress to pass 
upon this report and various other matters in which the well fare of the 
Union is deeply interested — it being a money matter there being only 
seven States represented, R. Island Connecticut Delaware Maryland North 
Carolina and Georgia being absent, indeed the principle of the con- 
federation as it respects representation and the mode of voting is calcu- 
lated to encourage delinquencey. there is no reason that Rhode Island, 
Delaware and Georgia should have equal weight in the federal councills 
with Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Virginia, and if the representation 
had been apportiond according to numbers or property, and a suitable 
quorum established and the major vote to determine questions, this in- 
attention would not exist, but as unanimity is now necessary upon the 
most trivial questions we feel all the inconveniences of the liberum Veto 
of a Polish Diet, the applications from our foreign creditors are of such 
a nature as to make a deep impression with Congress and they have 
thought it their duty again to call the consideration of the States to the 
subject of an Impost, more especially as the situation of N. York enables 
them so to Tax their Neighbours of Connecticut and N. Jersey as to create 
such a temper in those States as will greatly weaken if not destroy the 
Union. The Assembly of N. Jersey have lately entered into a resolution 
that they will not comply with the last or any future requisition of Con- 
gress untill N. York gives up their Impost or applys it for the general 
purposes of the Union, indeed there is nothing but the restraining hand of 
Congress, (weak as it is), that prevents N. Jersey and Connecticut from 
entering the lists very seriously with N. York and bloodshed would very 
quickly be the consiquence. but however N. Jersey may suffer by her 
paying taxes for N. York, her refusal to comply with the requisition is 
unjustifiable, and unless she recinds her resolution must work the end of 
all federal Government. Congress sent an express to demand an attested 
copy of the resolution, he returned with it last night, tomorrow it will be 
very seriously considered, but as N. Jersey is one of the seven States now 
on the floor they may perhaps embarras Congress in their proceedings.* 
they have however wrote in the most pressing manner for the attendance 

revised system amounted to little more than vesting the settlement of the accounts in one 
commissioner and requiring the several commissioners then acting to turn in their 
accounts to the board of treasury as soon as may be after Apr. 15. On Mar. _>4 and 27 
various nominations were made for the office of commissioner as designated by the act. 
but no election appears to have taken place. Before Apr. 15 difficulties had arisen in 
connection with the settlement of the accounts (see the Journals, Apr. 7, 8. 10. ia, 30, and 
no. 360, post), which led Congress to repeal, May 8, so much of the act of Mar. . 
vested 1 Mtdcmcnl in a single commissioner, and to provide tor two comtntl 

scted annually, the one for the quartermaster's and commi the 

other for the hospital, marine, and clothier's departments. On the same day Jonathan 
Burrall was chosen for the first of these position^ Benjamin Walker for the other. 
On May 7, 1787, these commissioiurs were re-elected, and aL'ain on Max 8, 1788. See no. 
845, post. Warren's letter to which Gorham is replying possibly had in view his own 
account against the Continent. See these Letters, vol. V'., nos. 358, 586. and vol. VI . 1 
(note 3), 410. A memorial of Warren relative to his account was referred to a committee 
Dec. 8, 1784, the committee reported Feb. 2. 1785. and on Feb. 18 Congress instructed 
the board of treasury to revise his account and make report. Apparently the board had not 
yet reported at the clotc of 1787. See no. 7(kS. post. 

s See no. 313, note 3, ante, and nos. 349, 354-356, 358-360, post. 



March, 1786 319 

of the delinquent States. Congress yesterday agreed on another applica- 
tion to the States on the subject of Commerce, it is plain from the whole 
tenor of Mr. Adams' letters, that unless Congress possess the power pi 
restricting the British trade there is no probability of his being able to 
do any thing to purpose with that Court. I will endeavor as far as I am 
able to have an equitable adjustment of your account, we do not get any 
account of the President's state of health, we are therefore intirely at a 
loss when to expect him. 4 Your Son Mr. Warren being returnd to Boston 
I inclose some letters which I red. under cover for him. 

349. The Secretary of Congress to Charles Pinckney, 
Nathaniel Gorham, and William Grayson. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

March 7th, 178& 
Gentlemen, 

Herewith you will receive enclosed 1st. the Resolution passed this day 
appointing you to repair to Trenton and to represent to the Legislature 
of New Jersey the fatal consequences that must result from their refusal 
to comply with the requisition of September 1785. 2. A copy of the 
resolution passed by the Assembly of New- Jersey. 3. A Copy of the Act 
of the 15th February and a schedule of the French and Dutch Loans. 

4th A pamphlet containing the address to the States in April 1783 and 
sundry other papers among which is No. 6, The Contract entered into 
by the Honorable J. Adams in behalf of the United States with sundries 
for a Loan of five Millions of florins. 

I have only to observe further that the second contract made the 9th 
of March 1784 for two million florins so far as relates to the right to 
demand immediate payment of the whole in case the Interest and install- 
ments are not discharged at the appointed periods, and so far as relates 
to the binding the United States jointly and severally etc. is of the same 
tenor as the first. 

I wish you an agreeable Journey and successful issue to your embassy a 

350. Stephen Mix Mitchell to Oliver Wolcott, jr. 1 

New York Mar: 7th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Your's of the 15th Ulto. came safe to hand. Doc'r Johnson was in 
Connect't before it was receiv'd and has not as yet return'd, 2 have there- 
fore not been able to obtain a sight of your Letter of March 1785 re- 

4 See nos. 285, 289-293, 296, 297, 308, 326, 330, ante, 414, post. 
[349] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 39 (addressed, " Honorable Air. 
Pinckney Mr. Gorham Mr. Grayson"). 

2 See nos. 343, 348, ante, 354-356, 358-360, post. The committee made its report 
Mar. 22. 

[350] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Charles Francis Jenkins of Philadelphia. The 
letter is addressed, " Oliver Woolcut Ju'r Esqr. Hartford Free S. M. Mitchell ". 

2 See no. 330, note 2, ante. According to Johnson's diary he was again " at 
Congress" Mar. 9, and also on Mar. 10. On the nth he was "at Comm'ee '. 



320 Continental Congress 

ferr'd to. I have conversed with one of the board of Treasury upon the 
subject of the Communications made by the Commissioner, but cannot 
learn he has made any of Consequence. The Gentleman with whom I 
conversed, seem'd of opinion, that the orders given the Commissioner 
necessitated him to too great particularity and that his returns would be 
very voluminous, expressed his ardent wish that some Alteration might 
be made in the Directions; When Doct'r Johnson arrives I will pay 
Attention to the matter and inform you the result. 

So far as Delicacy will permit, shall endeavor to inform myself of 
the Correspondence you mention and the Objections therein made to the 
Accts. of Connecticut and communicate every Occurrence worthy of 
Notice. 8 

I conjecture nothing (save the length to which the Commissioners have 
already proceeded) will prevent Congress from adopting some new and 
more expeditious Method of setling the Accts. of individual States with 
the United States. 4 

I have procured the Journals from Novr. 1782 to the beginning of this 
year for you, tho' with some Difficulty, as the Secretary informs that he 
has forwarded our portion of them to the executive long since. I cannot 
divine the reason you have not been supplied with them. The Stage 
Drivers are releived every few miles and least they should be lost or 
mislaid, think it unsafe to entrust them to their Care, will transmit them 
by the first safe Oppertunity and am in the mean time ; with the highest 
respect and Esteem 

Sir Your most humbl Sert. 

Stephen M. Mitchell 



351. John Bayard to John Nicholson. 1 

New York March nth 1 786. 
Dear Sir, 

I this day received your Letter of the 4th Inst, in answer to mine of 
the 8th Ult. I can readily pardon your not answering me sooner as I 
know how much your Time is taken up with publick Business. Mr. Pettit 
by his Letter of the 9th Inst, informs me that Mr. Wilson will sett off on 
Monday or tuseday for this place, this has determined me to leave this 
for Philada. on Wensday or thursday at farthest, so that I shall shortly 
have the pleasure of seeing you when I hope it will be in my power to 
settle Matters to mutual Satisfaction. 2 .... 

I am much pleased with the Conduct of our Assembly in passing the 
Laws agreably to the Report of their Committee — however We may be 

8 See no. 309, post. 

* Cf. no. 348, anlr. 
[351] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, "John Nicholson Esqr. 
Comptroler Genl. In Philadelphia"). 

2 James Wilson took his seat in Congress Mar. 22. Bayard probably took his 
departure on Thursday, Mar. 17. for Pennsylvania continued to be represented through 
Mar. 16, while on the 17th only St. Clair is recorded as attending. 



March, 1786 321 

devided by Party We stand well with Congress as a Foederal State. I 
wish I could say as much for N York. I hope to have the pleasure of 
seeing you in a few days. 

352. David Ramsay to Henry Knox. 1 

New York March 12th 1786. 
Sir, 

I have perused your plan for the militia with great pleasure. I only 
fear that our governments are too relaxed to bear any System which 
will be attended with so much time and expence. It is so well calculated 
for defence that foreigners will not dare to molest us; But it is a query 
with me whether our youth would not be so fond of a military life as to 
be tempted to act offensively against our neighbors. I think it is excellent 
in theory but I fear the Supiness of our citizens would make its execution 
impracticable. 2 

353. William Hindman to .* 

New York March 12th 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I received Yours of the 14th Ulto. and You may rely that every Atten- 
tion shall be paid to the Case of Mr. Jamison, his Application has been 
laid before Congress and is now in the Hands of a Committee, nothing 
at present can be done in it for Want of a sufficient Number of States in 
Congress, there being only eight represented ; Whenever it is acted upon 
We shall be inform'd. 2 

354. Charles Pinckney, Speech before the New Jersey 

Assembly. 1 

[March 13, 1786.] 2 
Trenton, March 16. 

On Monday last, the committee of congress, consisting of the hon. 
Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, the hon. Nathaniel Gorham, of 
Massachusetts, and the hon. William Grayson, of Virginia, had an audi- 

[352] x Mass. Hist. Soc., Knox Papers, XVIII. 143. 

2 Secretary Knox's plan for the militia, submitted to Congress in a letter of Mar. 18 
(see the Journals, p. 117 n.), was referred to a committee Apr. 4, and the committee 
reported favorably Sept. II. Printed copies of Knox's report were issued Mar. 27. See the 
Bibliographical Notes, Journals, pp. 959-960. Cf. nos. 374, 526, post. 

[353] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. 

2 The memorial of Adam Jamieson, lieutenant in the Maryland line and sometime 
deputy commissary of issues, was referred to a committee Mar. 2 (see the Journals, 
p. 92 n.). It was referred to a new committee Aug. 2, 1787, and on Sept. 28 following 
his account was ordered adjusted. 

[354] x The American Museum, II. 153-159 (July, 1787); New Jersey Gazette, Mar. 
20, 1786; Massachusetts Gazette, Apr. 3, 1786; Independent Ledger (Boston), Apr. 3, 
1786; Continental Journal (Boston), Apr. 7, 1786. 

2 See nos. 343, 348, 349, ante, 355, 356, 358-360, post. The Massachusetts Gazette 
of Mar. 27, the Boston Gazette of the same date, and other papers carried the following 
item under " Trenton, March 13 " : 

" Friday last a Committee of the Hon. the Congress, consisting of Mr. Pinckney from 
South-Carolina, Mr. Gorham from Massachusetts, and Mr. Grayson from Virginia arrived 



322 Continental Congress 

ence of the assembly of New-Jersey, agreeably to the resolution of con- 
gress of the 7th instant, and the appointment of the house, assigning 
that day. 

The resolution of congress, appointing the committee, and stating its 
purposes — and the resolutions of congress of the 15th of February last, 
respecting the revenue system of [18th] April, 1783, were read, and a 
schedule of the foreign loans laid before the house. 

Mr. Pinckney then addressed the house in nearly the following terms : * 

Mr. Speaker. 

The united states in congress assembled, have been informed, that this 
house had, on the 20th ultimo, resolved that they could not, consistently 
with their duty to their constituents, assent to the requisition of September 
last, for federal supplies. Upon this information, they conceive * it incum- 
bent on them, as guardians of the general rights and interests of the 
confederacy, by a deputation of their own body, 8 to present to the view 
of the house, 6 the absolute necessity there is for 7 a strict and punctual 
compliance with the requisitions of congress, and the consequences which 
must attend 8 an adherence to the present determination of the assembly. 

When these states united, convinced of the inability of each to support 
a separate system, and that their protection and existence depended on 
their union 9 — policy, as well as prudence, dictated the necessity of form- 
ing one general and 10 EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT, which, while it 
protected and secured the whole, left to the several states, those rights of 
internal sovereignty, it was not necessary to delegate, and which could 
be exercised without injury to the federal authority. In them were placed 
all the u essential powers which constitute a nation — such are, the exclu- 
sive rights of peace and war; of sending and receiving embassies; of 
forming treaties and alliances ; and equipping and raising fleets and armies. 
To them, also, was 12 delegated the power of obtaining loans on the faith 

here. It is said they were appointed in consequence of the resolution entered into by 
our Assembly of the 20th ult. relative to the requisition of Congress of the 27th of 
September last; and that they are to have an audience this day at eleven o'clock, when 
it is to be hoped the doors of that Hon. House will be open." 

• The speech as printed in the American Museum not only varies in numerous 
particulars from that which appeared in the New Jersey Gazette and the other painr- 
named, but contains some extended passages not found in those papers. The source of 
the American Museum text has not been discovered ; it may have been furnished to the 
editor of that monthly (Matthew Carey) by Pinckney himself. The principal variations 
of the text in the Xcw JtrMJ Casctte (the other texts indicated are essentially identical 
with it) are noted below. One such in the introduction may be noted: instead of "had 
an audience", the New Jersey Gasette reads, "had their audience". 

4 N. J. Cazcttc : " being informed .... they have conceived ", and lacking the 
phrase, " Upon this information ". 

1 .V. J. (nicctic has: "a measure they never adopt but upon the most important 
occasions ". 

8 " the state of New-Jersey ". 

7 " in the several states to . 

■ " the fatal consequences which must inevitably attend ". 

• " on their union depended their protection and existence ". 

10 Lacks "general and", and does not use capitals for "efficient government" or 
" internal sovereignty ", below. 

11 "all those". 

12 "were", and "of obtaining .... expences " in italics. 



March, 1786 323 

of the united states; and of apportioning to the several members of the 
union, their quotas of the public expences. The mode established by the 
confederation, for ascertaining their respective quotas, 13 was, at that time, 
supposed equal and practicable. Experience, however, has proved the 
contrary: and the states, though frequently urged, having neglected to 
furnish returns of the value of their lands, and the buildings and improve- 
ments thereon, agreeably to the article, congress were induced to recom- 
mend an alteration of it. This has been under reference for some time. 
Ten of the states have complied; and many of them furnished returns of 
their inhabitants, 14 in conformity to the recommendation. New Jersey 
has done both. It is the best information we 16 have been able to obtain, 
of the comparative strength and resources of the states, and the only one 
on which the requisitions for public supplies, could be equally or prop- 
erly founded. 16 

The states having thus by their voluntary act, formed one government as 
essential to the protection of the whole — and placed in a supreme controul- 
ing power the administration of its general concerns, and to which 1T they 
were to look up for support — each state is bound, according to its abilities, 
to furnish a proportion of the expences; and the whole are jointly and 
severally pledged for the public engagements, foreign and domestic. The 
mode prescribed by the confederation, being, as I have observed, 18 imprac- 
ticable, it follows, that the proportions are to be quotaed agreeably to the 
best lights in the possession of the union : for while the government exists, 
its members are bound to contribute to its maintenance. New Jersey has 19 
not only assented to the mode by which she is rated, but furnished the 
returns on which the assessment could be made with exactness : she cer- 
tainly cannot, therefore, 20 complain of bearing an undue proportion. She 
will not, I trust, upon reflection, 21 suppose she can, either consistently 
with her duty to the union, or with safety to its welfare, refuse to comply 
with the requisition. 22 If she has been over-rated, upon stating the excess 
in evidence to congress, she will always receive the relief she may be 
justly entitled to. If, on the other hand, she conceives herself unequally 
situated, or that she does not participate in those common benefits which 
the general government was expected to dispense to all its members — if 
she thinks, with me, that its powers are inadequate to the ends for which 
it was instituted, and that they should be increased — there can be no 
doubt of the conduct she ought to pursue. She ought immediately to 
instruct her delegates in congress, to urge the calling of a general con- 

13 " ascertaining the quota of each ". 

14 " and some of them furnished the returns of their numbers ". 

15 " Congress ". 

16 " resources of the different states, and the only one on which they could 
properly found those requisitions the services and supplies of the federal government 
render necessary ". 

17 " its general concerns, and to whom ". 

18 " as I have observed " lacking. 

19 " and New- Jersey having not only ". 

20 " cannot with propriety complain ". 

21 " nor will she, I trust, upon serious reflection ". 

22 " either ", " or with safety to its welfare ", and " to comply with " lacking. 



324 Continental Congress 

vention of the states, for the purpose of revising and amending the fed- 
eral system. In this constitutional application, she will meet with all the 
attention and support she can wish. 28 I have long been of opinion, that it 
was the only true and radical remedy for our public defects; and shall 
with pleasure assent to, and support, any measure of that kind, which may 
be introduced, while I continue a member of that body. 

If her resentments had been otherwise directed — if her endeavours 
had been used to produce a compliance with the general impost, on the 
part of those states which have not yet acceded — so far from injuring, 
she would have been entitled to the applause of the union. But what can 
be her object in refusing the requisition? Must it not be the means of 
involving the states who were friendly to her interests in the general con- 
fusion that will probably ensue? and so far from obtaining the ends she 
proposes, may it not divert the attention of government from that system 
which could alone relieve the non-importing states, and apply it wholly to 
her? 24 For with what propriety could compulsory means be used against 
a state, for not assenting to a measure, in which we confess she had a right 
to deliberate, when we suffer another in silence, and with impunity, 26 to 
refuse a requisition she is constitutionally bound to comply with ? 

Suffer me here to remark, 28 that the present requisition is founded upon 
more advantageous principles, than any hitherto adopted — I mean as far 
as it respects the eight northern states: 27 for of the 11,400,485 dollars, 
being the total specie value of the loan-office-debt 9,998,880, being more 
than seven-eighths of the whole, were loaned in the seven eastern states. 
The state of New Jersey is in proportion a very considerable creditor of 
the union. How far, therefore, it becomes her to support the measures of 
congress, in providing for the interest of this debt, and in supportir, 
its credit, is left to the good sense of the house to determine. 

28 In the New Jersey Gazette this passage reads as follows : " If she has been 
over-rated, let her substantiate it in evidence to Congress, and she will always find that 
body inclined to do her the completest justice. Nay more, if she conceives herself 
oppressed under the present confederation, let her, through her delegates in Congress, 
state to them the oppressions she complains of, and urge the calling of a general con- 
vention of the states for the purpose of increasing the powers of the federal government, 
and rendering it more adequate to the ends for which it was instituted. In this constitu- 
tional mode of application there can be no doubt of her meeting with all the support and 
attention she can wish." The succeeding passage, " I have long .... that body ", is 
lacking. 

24 N. J. Gazette : " Had her resentment, in concert with Connecticut, been 
pointed against New- York, and the means in their power by duties, and by opening a 
port immediately opposite their city, been exerted to oblige that state to do them justice, 
so far from injuring, she would have received the countenance of every federal stato in 
the union. But her present conduct, in refusing the constitutional requisition of Congress, 
and involving the states who were friendly to her interests in the general confusion that 
must now ensue, so far from obtaining the ends she proposes, will divert the attention 
of the union from New- York, and from that system which could alone relieve the non- 
importing states, and apply it wholly to her." 

25 " another .... impunity ", all in italics. 

26 " It will be proper here to remark ". 

2T " so far as it respects the eight northern states, whose citizens hold more 
than three-fourths of the whole certificate debt of the United States ". 
2 * " asserting ". 



March, 1786 325 

The several requisitions of September, 1782, April, 1784, and Septem- 
ber, 1785, which have been just stated to the house, and their principles 
fully explained, obviate every objection, with respect to a larger number 
of certificates being issued, than are provided for ; and prove that certifi- 
cates will not issue from the loan-offices to a greater amount than the 
interest of the domestic debt to December, 1784. If all the states 29 com- 
ply with the several requisitions, the funds, on which the interest-certifi- 
cates depend, will be sufficiently extensive to discharge the whole. 30 

Much objection is made to the commutation for half -pay, allowed the 
army. On this subject, I shall only remark, that the late congress found 
an act of a former finally adopted, and the national faith pledged to carry 
it into execution. The military certificates are so exchanged, that it would 
be impossible now, even if it was proper, to discriminate between them 
and the other public securities. To an army, however, who have evinced 
such magnanimity and patience under every suffering, their country are 
surely bound by the strongest ties of gratitude and affection: and if it 
could be ever admissible to make a distinction between the public credi- 
tors, they certainly possess the purest claims to preference and attention. 31 

That the commercial states are indebted to the joint efforts of the whole, 
for the advantages they enjoy — and that it is their duty to devote a part 
of them to the national service 32 — will be readily admitted. Upon these 
principles, congress have again, by the address of the 15th of February 
last, which you have just heard read, presented the revenue-system to 
the view of those states that have not complied. 33 In once more bringing 
this recommendation before them, they have stated that there will be due, 
in the course of the next year, a part of the principal of two of the foreign 
loans, and afterwards a part of the other loans, agreeably to the stipula- 
tions of the same, to be paid annually, by instalments, until the whole is 
extinguished — which must, until that event, proportionably increase the 
sums called for ; — that the whole of the domestic debt is not yet liquidated, 
and that its amount will probably be enlarged beyond its former estimate — 
that the treaties necessary for the protection of our commerce from the 
piratical states of Barbary — the safety of our frontiers from the savages — 
and the establishment of magazines in different parts of the union — 
may perhaps increase the estimate of the military department; and that 
the supplies, for federal purpose5, will probably be greater than they have 

29 " If the states ". 

30 " will be co-extensive with them, and the certificates all be sunk and called in 
by the taxes levied by the states ". 

31 " As to the commutation to the army, it is only necessary to remark, that the 
late Congress found an act of a former Congress finally adopted upon the subject, and 
the national faith pledged to carry it into effect. The certificates are so exchanged that 
it would be impossible now, even if it was proper, to make any discrimination between 
them and the other publick securities. To the army, however, I am of opinion their 
country are bound by the strongest ties of gratitude and affection, and if it could be ever 
admissible to make any distinctions between the publick creditors they certainly possess 
the purest claims to preference and attention." 

:! - The clause " and .... service " is lacking. 

33 The remainder of this paragraph and the two next, ending with " blessings 
they enjoy ", are not in A r . /. Gazette. 



326 Continental Congress 

hitherto been; that they contemplate with pleasure the prospect of extin- 
guishing a part of the domestic debt by the sales of western territory — 
but that, as a considerable time must intervene before it can be surveyed 
and disposed of, no immediate aid can be drawn from this source; and 
that since a sufficient sum for the exigencies of government, and the inter- 
est due on the public debt, was not to be expected from any of the means 
authorised by the confederation, it follows, that unless some more efficient 
and productive fund could be discovered, we should soon be exposed to 
the greatest national difficulties and disgrace. 

While it is in the power of the states to prevent these incumbrances, 
and to do justice to their creditors, congress will certainly continue to 
urge them to it. They have again presented to their view, the system which 
has been so long under reference to their legislatures, as the only one 
calculated to assert the credit and relieve the distresses of the union. 

In examining the conduct of the states, they will find that all, except 
New York and Georgia, have, in some degree, though perhaps not effectu- 
ally, complied with the first part. of the recommendation for investing the 
united states with the power of levying the impost. The assent of so large 
a majority of the states, including some of the most important in com- 
mercial and other resources, shews that they were impressed with the 
necessity and propriety of its motives. Convinced of the importance of 
the federal government, and that on its existence their political welfare 
and consequence must depend, they have liberally dedicated to its support, 
a part of the advantages derived from its establishment: nor have they 
considered this as more than justice to the citizens of those states whose 
situation renders them dependent upon their imports for supplies — that 
they had therefore wisely determined to make the welfare of the union 
their first object, reflecting that in all federal regulations something must 
be yielded to aid the whole; and that those who may expect support, must 
in their turn be ready to afford it. How far their example may induce the 
legislatures of those states to adopt the same liberal conduct, is now left 
to themselves to decide. We still, however, trust that these states will lie 
not less disposed to give vigour and efficacy to a government upon which 
all must eventually depend for the protection and security of the invalu- 
able blessings they enjoy. 

Our latest advices inform us, that Georgia has acceded — New York 
is now deliberating, 84 and it is hoped, that a measure so just in itself, and 
so necessary at this time to strengthen the federal credit, will mert with 
their concurrence — if not — we reflect with pleasure, that a great majority 
of the most important states in the union, have upon every occasion, by 
their acts and ready assent to " the recommendations of congress, mani- 
fested so warm and zealous an affection to the federal compact, as leaves 
no doubt of a system soon being formed, which will, in its operation, re- 
lieve every embarrassment and inequality complained of. But this will 
altogether depend upon the concerted measures of such states as are 

»« " Georgia, it is said, has acceded — New-York is now deliberating upon it ". 
86 " ready compliance with ". 






March, 1/86 327 

friendly to the system. By divisions upon the subject of the requisition, 
you will not only prevent congress from taking the necessary measures 
to obtain 36 this desirable end, but furnish the non-complying states with 
new and forcible arguments against it — arguments 37 founded on the im- 
propriety of investing the exercise of important powers to a government so 
feebly and injudiciously constructed, as to be not only incapable of execut- 
ing those they at present possess, but to be a very unsafe deposit of such 
further authorities as are required by the system under their considera- 
tion. The danger, they contend, arises from the inequality of representa- 
tion, and the want of a proper distribution of the powers of government. 
Be assured, that whenever they have it in their power, they will attempt 
this reform. Perhaps I do not go too far in asserting, that a perseverance 
in your refusal, may afford them this opportunity, by dissolving 38 those 
ties which bind us as a nation : for should the other states suspend their 
supplies, to the common treasury, until New Jersey complies with the 
requisition, the existence of the federal government must be endangered — 
probably cease. 

It 89 is certainly more the interest of the small, than it can be of the 
large states, to preserve the confederation upon its present principles. We 
are aware of the necessity which compelled the latter to confederate upon 
terms allowing each state an equal vote in the national councils. Had the 
system been formed in a time of peace — when no common danger pressed — 
when deliberation was unaccompanied with apprehension, and the large 
states preferred conceding the point of proportionable representation, how- 
ever important, to the greater evil of being again reduced to the power 
of Great Britain — can it be thought that any union would have been 
formed upon principles so unequal and oppressive as the present ? 

Let us for a moment suppose the confederation dissolved, and an as- 
sembly of the states convened for the purpose of adopting a system cal- 
culated to render the general government firm and energetic — is it not to 
be reasonably expected, that the large states would contend and insist 
upon a greater influence than they at present possess ? Would they again 
consent to unite upon principles which should allow states not contributing 
a twelfth part of their quotas to the public expences, an equal vote with 
themselves! It is not even to be hoped. It ought, therefore, to appear 
exceedingly important to the small states to maintain a svstem so advan- 
tageous to their particular interests, when they reflect that in the event 
of another confederation, they cannot expect to be placed in a situation, 
to which they are neither entitled by common justice, or an equal atten- 
tion to the rights of the other members of the union. 

Though our present disorders must be attributed, in the first instance, 
to the weakness and inefficacy of the general government, it must still be 
confessed they have been precipitated by the refractory and inattentive 

86 " you not only defeat and prevent the measures of Congress, for obtaining ". 

37 The passage " arguments .... reform " is not in N. J. Gazette. 

38 " a perseverance in your refusal must inevitably tend to dissolve ". 

39 The three following paragraphs, ending " prevent its injuring them ", are not 
in N. J. Gazette. 



328 Continental Congress 

conduct of the states: most of whom have neglected altogether the per- 
formance of their federal duties ; and, whenever their state policy or inter- 
ests prompted, used their retained rights to the injury and disgrace of the 
federal head. Be assured, sir, the united states can have no danger so 
much to dread as that of disunion : nor has the federal government, when 
properly formed, any thing to fear, but from the licentiousness of its 
members. We have no hereditary monarchy, or nobles with all their train 
of influence and corruption, to contend with ; nor is it possible to form a 
federal aristocracy. Parties may, for a time, prevail in the states: but 
the establishment of an aristocratic influence in the councils of the union, 
is remote and doubtful. It is the anarchy, if I may use the term, or rather 
worse than anarchy, of a pure democracy which / fear — where tJie laws 
lose their respect, and the magistrates their authority; -where no perma- 
nent security is given to the property and privileges of the citicens; and 
no measures pursued, but such as suit the temporary interest and con- 
venience of the prevailing parties, I cannot figure to myself a govern- 
ment more truly degrading ; and yet such has been the fate of all the an- 
cient, and will, without great care, be probably the fate of all the modern 
republics. The progress has been regular — from order to licentiousness — 
from licentiousness to anarchy — and from thence to despotism. If we 
review the confederacies of Greece, we shall find, that each in their turn 
became a prey to the turbulence of their own members, who, refusing to 
obey the federal head, and, upon all occasions, insulting and opposing 
its authority, afforded an opportunity to foreign powers to interfere and 
subvert them. There is not an example, in history, of a confederacy being 
enslaved or ruined by the invasions of the supreme authority; nor is it 
possible: for depending, as it must, upon the members for support and 
maintenance, it will always be in their power to check and prevent its 
injuring them. 

It would be unnecessary in me to detail the inconveniencies which must 
result from your persisting in a conduct pregnant with the most alarm- 
ing evils. I trust that the application which is now made, will be the means 
of your rescinding an act which has so much excited the public attention. 40 

The situation of our commerce, languishing under the most ruinous and 
opprobrious restraints in foreign ports, demands a wise and well-concerted 
system of policy to support it. 41 The hostile conduct of the savages on our 
frontiers — the unexampled behaviour of Great Britain *- in holding our 
posts contrary to the treaty, bridling the country, and depriving us of the 
advantages which would otherwise arise from it ; and above all, that due 
and sacred regard wliich a nation ought ever to pay to her engagements, 

40 In place of this paragraph A r . J. Gazette has the following : " To this house, 
therefore, an application is now made to rescind their act, as one pregnant with the more 
alarming evils." 

41 Following " restraints " the text in A*. J. Gazette reads : " and which nothing 
hut a wise and well-concerted system of federal POlky ran M ippor t, lias for some time 
demanded our most serious attention — to relieve it from its present embarrassments — to 
place it upon terms advantageous to our own citizens — and rescue it from the predatory 
invasions of the Barbary States." 

42 " behaviour of our late enemy ". 



March, 1786 329 

as the only solid basis of her honour and prosperity, at this time particu- 
larly, call for our strenuous and united exertions. To these important con- 
siderations, all motives of state policy should yield. We should recollect, 
that the grievances and inequalities particuar states may complain of, can 
only be relieved by the timely and judicious interference of the federal 
authority, and that this once dissolved, the interests of the lesser states 
may not only be oppressed, but become a prey to the more important, and 
such a scene of intestine discord and confusion ensue, as every friend to 
the peace and liberties of his country must wish to avert. A temptation 
will be offered to the great maritime powers of Europe to interfere in our 
politics, and this country, which under a wise and liberal system might be 
the happiest, become one of the most miserable and contemptible in 
existence. 

For these and a variety of reasons which might be added, but which are 
too obvious to render my stating them to you necessary, I am induced to 
hope the house will rescind their resolution. 43 If they should not .... 
in what other light can the united states view their conduct, than that [sic~\ 
of a breach 44 of the confederation, and a solemn recession of this state 
from its union and protection? — a measure, which, I am convinced, 
a state so deserving as this is, in point of services and exertions, could 
not have had in the most distant contemplation. This act has, how- 
ever, exceedingly raised the public anxiety: and as the measures of con- 
gress must in a great degree depend upon your determination, either to 
rescind, or adhere to your refusal, we are to request an answer as soon 
as the importance of the subject will conveniently admit. 45 

Mr. Pinckney used a number of other arguments, 46 explaining and 
enforcing the principles of the requisition, proving that it was not intended 
as a substitute for, or could, by any means, be construed to interfere with, 
the revenue system of April 18, 1783 ; stating the consequences which must 
result from a refusal of it, and urging the house to comply with the expec- 
tations of congress, in passing it. 

Mr. Gorham and mr. Grayson followed mr. Pinckney; and by a variety 
of arguments, proved, 47 in a very able and pointed manner, the impolicy 
of New Jersey's refusing the requisition, it being clearly her interest to 
support the confederation. The latter gentleman 48 urged with great force 

43 " For these and a variety of other reasons which might easily be adduced, I am 
hopeful the house will rescind their resolution, and pass the requisition." 

44 " If they do not .... than in that of an infraction ". 

4n After " protection " : "A measure I am convinced they could not have had in 
the most distant contemplation. We have ever viewed this state in point of services and 
exertions as one of the most deserving in the union, and trust that upon this occasion she 
will evince that attachment to the federal system — we are sure she bears it. 

" As the measures of Congress must in a great degree depend upon the determination 
of the house either to rescind or adhere to their late resolution, and as the publick anxiety 
is exceedingly raised, we are to request your honourable body to give us an answer as 
soon as the importance of the subject will possibly admit." 

46 N. J. Gazette has the additional clause, " which we have not been able to 
obtain ". 

47 " proved " follows the clause "in ... . manner ". 

48 N. J. Gazette adds, " in particular ". 



330 Continental Congress 

the impropriety of this state's risquing the dissolution of the union, as in 
the event of another confederation, it could not be supposed the lesser 
states would be allowed to confederate upon equal terms with the more 
important. 49 In consequence of the above address the assembly passed 
the following resolution : . . . . 

355. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

March 14, 1786. 
Sir, 

The letters which your Excellency did me the honor to write on the 
6 and 7 have been duly received and communicated to Congress. An Ap- 
plication similar to that contained in your letter of the 7th was last week 
made by the legislature of New york and referred to the board of treasury, 
who reported against prolonging the time. The enclosed extract will shew 
how far Congress proceeded on that report. Should they think it neces- 
sary to proceed farther and come to a decision, I shall immediately transmit 
it to your Excellency. In the mean while the Commissioner must be gov- 
erned by the resolution of the 17 March 1785. 2 

356. William Grayson to Henry Knox. 1 

D'r Sir, 

I recieved a tickett from you just as I was setting out from N. York. 
and had not then time to answer it : I am sorry it is not now in my power 
to say any thing certainly on the subject matter of it. 

We yesterday had an audience before the Assembly, but have had no 
answer, neither can we form any conclusions as to what will be the result 
of our Embassy." 

49 The N. J. Gazette has at this point the assembly proceedings upon the 
question Mar. 17, closing with the rescinding resolution : 

" Resolved, That the said resolution of the 20th February last be, and the same is hereby 
resinded and made void." 

Otto, the French charge, in a letter to Vergennes Mar. 17, gave a summary of 
Pinckney's speech and added the following with regard to that of Grayson: 

"Another deputy, more animated than he, and indignant that the less important states 
should continue to oppose national measures, exclaimed, among other things, ' What is 
vour object in hastening the dissolution of a confederation which has cost us so dear? 
That compact was the result of necessity : but do you suppose that in a new system of 
government you would be allowed the importance that you have had hitherto? Do you 
think that Virginia, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts would be willing to 
stand on an equal footing with the handful of citizens which inhabit your state? Although 
greatly inferior to those powerful republics, you have had an equal part in the delibera- 
tions of Congress: but in a new confederation you will be put in your proper place.' 
These vigorous words produced a good effect. The assembly of New Jersey has just 
repealed its resolutions : and. to force New York to submit to the wish of Congress, 
it establishes a free port at Paulus Hook, lying to the west of the mouth of the North 
river, opposite New York" (Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 485). See further 
not. .356. 3§8, 350, 360. pot*- 

[355] 1 Library of Congress. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 40. 

* Livingston's letter of Mar. 6 was read in Congress Mar. 13 {Journals, p. H2n.) ; 
that of Mar. 7 is not noted. For the action on the New York case see the Journals, 
Mar. 7 Cp. con.") and to (report of the board of treasury) : cf. no. 301, f>ost. 

[356] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVIII. 146. 
» See nos. 348, 349. 354. 355. ante, 358-360, post. 



March, 1786 331 

A bill for paper money, including a right of tendering, is before the 
Upper house and will be decided on in a day or two ; it is said the Council 
are nearly divided in opinion on this important subject. 

Trenton March 14th, 1786. 

357. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York March 15th, 1786. 
Sit, 

.... There is Eight States only in Congress, and three single Gentle- 
men from three other states — of course the business that require a larger 
number of States cannot be concluded. There are Two grand committees 
appointed and are setting as often as opportunity offers to prepare Such 
business as a less number than Nine are inefficient to enter on. No news of 
a public nature to inform you of. No packets from Europe, tho. two are 
daily expected. Neither is their any further Accounts from the commis- 
sioners who are treating with the Indians. 

[P.S.] 

358. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, March 19th, 1786.- 
Dear Sir, 

I inclose you a copy of Mr. Jay's publication of the correspondence 
between him and Mr. Littlepage revis'd and corrected. It may furnish 
some matter of entertainment. 3 Jersey having taken into consideration the 
late requisition, the house of delegates resolv'd that having enter'd into the 
confederation upon terms highly disadvantageous to that State, from the 
necessity of publick, affa'rs at the time, and a confidence that those points 
in which they were aggriev'd wo'd be remedied and finding this was not 
the case and a compact founded in such unequal principles likely, by their 
acquiescence to be fetter'd on them, they wo'd not therefore comply with 
the same untill their grievances were redress'd: in the course of their 
reasoning they mention the failure of some States to comply with the 
impost and seem to rest themselves on that ground in such manner as to 
intimate that if they sho'd comply their objections wo'd be nearly remov'd. 
This resolution being brought before Congress gave great uneasiness. It 
is to be observ'd that here is no express act of the Legislature but merely 
the negative of a proposition to comply with the requisition in the branch 

[357 1 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., VI. 19. 

[358] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 123; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, I. 488. 

2 For the week ending Saturday, Mar. 18, William Samuel Johnson records in his 
diary that he was " at Congress " every day from the 13th to the 16th, inclusive. On the 
17th there was " no Congress ", and on the 18th he was " at Committee ". 

3 See no. 309, ante. 

28 



332 Continental Congress 

with whom it sho'd originate, they therefore are in a less direct opposition 
to the confederation than if it were the act of the legislature, but bein^ 
in a high degree reprehensible Congress resolved that a committee he 
appointed to attend the legislature and endeavor to prevail on them to 
rescind the resolution and accede to the measure. The Committee were, 
Pinckney, Gorham and Grayson : they left us immediately and have not 
since return'd. 4 we have in the papers an act stated to be of R. I. passing 
the impost in the full latitude recommended by Congress, it is believed 
to be the case, in that event this State will most probably pass it also, it 
is also sd. that Georgia hath passed it. 5 a report urging in very pointed 
terms a complyance with the recommendation for changing as therein pro- 
pos'd the 8th of the articles of confederation is before Congress it will 
most probably pass altho' some gentn. in the Eastern States wo'd willingly 
throw it aside, the better dispos'd and better inform'd are aware of the 
impolicy of an opposition to it even if injurious to those States (wh. is 
not admitted) while they seek a more important alteration in the exten- 
sion of the powers of Congress in the regulation of trade. 6 .... 

359. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

New York March 22nd, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I should have done myself the pleasure of writing to you sooner, but 
really nothing occurred here of sufficient consequence to communicate. 
Congress from the small number of States that have come forward have 
remained in a kind of political torpor : they have of course taken no 
active steps till lately that they have addressed the States on the subject 
of commerce : they were not long since a good deal alarmed at the conduct 
of sister Jersey: The house of delegates of that State in a moody tit 
declared that they would not only not comply with the requisition of 
1785, but with no other requisition, until the 5 per Ct. Impost was adopted : 
The State by this Act having declared Independence Congress thought 
it was a matter that merited some attention ; they therefore ordered a 
Comm'ee to go to Trenton and expostulate with the House on the impro- 
priety of their conduct. The Comm'ee was heard, and the House was so 
complaisant as to rescind the resolution but they have passed no legislative 
act in affirmance of the requisition, and I very much doubt whether they 
will ; it may however have this effect, that other States will not be deterred 
(by her conduct in an absolute refusal) from passing the requisition; 2 

* See nos. 343, 348, 349, 354-356, ante, 359, 360, post. 

5 The New York Daily Advertiser published the Rhode Island act as a " Supple- 
ment .... For Saturday, March 18, 1786". 

8 See Dane's motion Feb. 27 and the committee report Mar. 8 (Journals) ; cj. the 
report of the grand committee, in the Journals, Aug. 7. 

[359] ' Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 

I.489. 

* See nos. 348, 349, 354-356, 358, ante, and no. 360, post. Letters of Dane (nos. 
33 L 332. ante) point to some uneasiness lest Massachusetts also refuse the requisition. 
However, on the same day that Grayson was writing, Gerry wrote to King : " The 
Assembly are about rising. They have fully comply'd with the Requisition, but have 



March, 1786 333 

There is at present a greater prospect of the impost than has been ever 
known; Georgia and Rhode Island have come into the measure, and it 
remains only with N. York to give her consent to make it productive : 
the legislature is now sitting and deliberating on this subject but I doubt 
extremely whether the result will be favorable. 3 .... 

There has been some serious thought in the minds of some of the 
Members of Congress to recommend to the States the meeting of a general 
Convention, to consider of an alteration of the Confederation, and there 
is a motion to this effect now under consideration, it is contended that 
the present Confederation is utterly inefficient, and that if it remains 
much longer in its present state of imbecillity, we shall be one of the most 
contemptible Nations on the face of the Earth : for my own part I have 
not yet made up my mind on the subject: I am doubtful whether it is 
not better to bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not 
of : I am however in no doubt about the weakness of the foederal Govern- 
ment; if it was weaker notwithstanding it would answer if the States had 
power as in the United Netherlands, the foederal Governm't is weak but 
the Individual States are strong. It is no wonder our Government should 
not work well, being formed on the Dutch model where circumstances 
are so materially different : 4 . . . . 

360. William Grayson to Richard Henry Lee. 1 

New York [March] 22nd 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

I have had the pleasure of receiving both your letters, and for which 
I am much obliged to you though I am sorry to observe you do not speak 
more decidedly on your intended junction with your brother delegates : 
if it depends on our removal to Philada. some time must necessarily 
elapse, as there is but little hopes that such an event will take effect with't 
a full representation of the Southern States : N. Carolina, Delawar and 
Georgia are still absent and we do not know when they will appear; it 
seems as if many of the States had forgot the relation in which they 
stood to the Union as well as to foreign powers. Congress have done 
very little since their last meeting indeed with so few States it is out of 
their power to do any thing of material consequence: 2 

postponed the Supplementary Funds till the next session, or in other words, till 
the next Legislature shall sit" {Life of King, I. 163). 

3 Cf. nos. 313-317. 333, 348, 358, ante, 374, 381, 383, 388, 394, post. 

4 Such a motion as Grayson mentions does not appear in the Journals, but there 
are other indications that the subject was seriously discussed. See, for instance, Jay to 
Washington Mar. 16 (Letters to Washington, IV. 130, and elsewhere), and Madison to 
Monroe May 13 {Writings, II. 242; Monroe's letter of Apr. 28, to which Madison is 
replying, has disappeared). Cf. Madison to Jefferson Aug. 12 (ibid., p. 257). See further 
no. 383, post. 

[360] x Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 The entries in William Samuel Johnson's diary Mar. 20-22 are as follows : 
"March 20th. Cold. Visits. At Congress. Din'd Elsworths. Even'g Commee. Exps. 8/10; 
21st. Warm Do. At Congress. Din'd Mrs. [ ?] Ever's. Exps. 10/3 ; 22d. Do. Do. [»'. e., 
Warm, Visits] At Congress. Din'd Elsworths. Wilson etc. Expens. 7/9." The 23d and 
24th he was " at Congress ", the 25th " at Comm'ee ". 



334 Continental Congress 

They have been lately alarmed at the conduct of our Sister Jersey in 
consequence of a resolution passed by the House of delegates of that 
State revolting agt. the requisition of 1785 and declaring they would 
neither consent to this or any other requisition unless the 5 p ct. impost is 
adopted : the apprehensions of Congress in consequence of this abdica- 
tion of Jersey induced them to send a Comm'ee to Trenton to remonstrate 
to them on the fatal consequences that must result from their adherence 
to their resolution. A few days ago the Comm'ee consisting of Mr. 
Pinkney and Mr. Gorham and myself had an audience, and the Assembly 
were polite enough to rescind the resolution : They are however still very 
much dissatisfied and complain heartily of the injuries they suffer from 
imposts laid on by N. York on the one hand and Pensylvany on the other. 
They alledge that they pay as much to these States by way of commerce 
as their proportion of the specie part of the requisition would amount 
to; Some of them wish for annihilation and that E. Jersey might be 
joined to N. York and W. Jersey to Pennsylvany. 8 .... 

[P. S.] Since writing above I understand that Georgia and Rhode 
Island, have both passed the 5 p ct. Impost; the legislature of X. Yurk 
are now sitting: the impost is before them, but it is matter of gnat 
doubt whether it will go through: if this State passes it, it will become 
efficient. 4 

I shall attend particularly to what you say respecting the Post Office. 
The Ordinance is ready to be produced when there are a sufficient 
number of States collected. 8 

It being in doubt whether a Member out of Congress and before be 
has taken his seat is exempted from Postage: I have pro majori ctmteia 
franked this. 6 W. G. 



361. Pierse Long to the President of New Ham is ink 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York March 29, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have taken the liberty to draw on the honourable treasurer for ninety 
pounds LI. money and put the payment thereof at twenty days sight. The 
gentleman in whose favor it is drawn {viz Capt Pearce) will call on your 
excellency for your order on the back of the same. 

8 Sec nos. 348, 349, 354-356, 358, 359, ante. 
* See no. 359, ante. 

8 See no. 114, ante. On Jan. 6 the committee of Dec. 27 had reported a resolution 
but not an ordinance, and on Feb. 25, the committee was once more reconstituted. The 
ordinance for the regulation of the post office was reported June 15 and was published 
(see the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, p. 963), but was allowed to drop and was not 
revived until the following year. See the Journals, Feb. 14, 1787. Meanwhile, in August 
and September, Congress gave considerable attention to the transportation of the nails, 
the establishment of cross posts, etc. See no. 471, post. 

9 For an instance in which a related question arose see the Journals, Aug. 16 
(p. 524 n.) and 17. 

[36i] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 



March, 1786 335 

One of the English packets arrived here three days ago, but bring 
nothing material and this day General Parsons one of the commissioners 
for treating 2 with the Indians returned to this city and reported to Con- 
gress a treaty of peace made between the Shawnese tribe of Indians and the 
United States and a cession of their right and title to lands on the North 
West side of the Ohio which was ceded by Great Britain to the United 
States reserving only a ps [piece ?] of ground to hunt on. They have 
also left at our garrison in that country hostages for delivering up all 
the prisoners taken from [us in ?] the course of the war. The treaty 
with this nation of Indians is deemed by the commissioners of more 
importance than with all the other Indians in the western territory. They 
are to send runners to the other tribes informing them of their doings 
and of the good disposition of the United States to the Indians in general. 

The commissioners have the strongest assurances from the Delawares, 
Wiandotts and Shawnese — that some of their Chiefs will attend the 
surveyors whenever they go into that country on that business. 

They think it necessary that another treaty should be held at a place 
further down the Ohio to make it more convenient for those nations, 
Indians who hav[e] not as yet met with them. 3 

The Honourable Mr. Livermore will set off from here for home next 
week. I had thought of going with him but have for the present laid 
them aside and shall continue unless I am otherwise directed. 



362. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 29 Mar. 1786. 

.... Mr. Thomson has been at Long Island the two past Days, Mrs. 
Thompson and the family are well, and extremely happy with the Packet 
I have this moment delivered them from you. We have nine states in 
congress — and the only act passed since this accession, has been a Resolve 
establishing the Salary of the Secretary of the Board of Treasury at 
1850 Dol's annually. 2 

Maryland has acceeded to the impost, granted the supplementary funds, 
and passed the Requisition, Georgia has granted the Impost, and New 
York alone is a non complying state — the Assembly have a bill now before 
them but its issue is extremly doubtful 3 

2 The copy has " trading ". 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 29 (p. 14411.), and nos. 363, 366, 371, 375, post. 
[362] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers; Life of King, I. 162 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 27. 

3 In the brief passage omitted King alludes to his approaching marriage (the 
following day). See no. 366, post. 



336 Continental Congress 

363. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

New York, April 2d, 1786. 2 
Sir, 

As the Intendant's Office is abolished, 8 thro' which Your Delegates to 
Congress received their Allowance during the last year, we are under the 
Necessity of applying to your Excellency, for Information on a Subject 
so essential to our being here, and of solliciting your Attention to it. 
The late Intendant, Mr. Jenifer, made his Advances of Money to the 
Delegates thro' the Channel of Messrs. Willing, Morris and Swannick. 
Could the same Mode be adopted by your Excellency (under whose 
direction we presume this Business is) it would be very agreable to us. 
Mr. Hindman has drawn no Money since the present Year. 

None of the Laws, passed at the last Session, complying with the 
Recommendations and Requisition of Congress, have as yet been officially 
received from the State of Maryland; and tho' we have Reasons to 
believe that every thing right has been done, yet we are not able to give 
Congress any decided Information on these important points. 

Mr. Harrison's Arrival here made a Representation of Nine States, and 
enabled Congress to proceed pretty generally on Business ; but at present 
there are only eight represented. 4 

General Parsons, one of the Commissioners appointed to treat with 
the Shawonese Nation of Indians, has just returned, with the Treaty of 
peace concluded with that Xation on the 1st of Jany. last. 8 

364. Nathaniel Gorham to the Governor of Massachuse 1 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

Xew York April 5, 1786. 
Sir, 

some time in the last June Session the General Court passed an order 
directing the Delegates to apply to Congress for the loan of sixty pieces 
of Cannon for the use of the Militia, but it has not been though [t] 

[363] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., box, 1786 (in the writing of Harrison and signed by Hindman 
and Harrison). 

2 From Mar. 27 to 31 William Samuel Johnson was " at Congress " ; under 
Apr. 1 (Saturday) his entry is, "Snow Storm violent at Comm'e ". 

8 The following extract of a letter from William Fitzhugh, delegate in Con- 
gress from Virginia in 1779, to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, May 17, 1786 (copied from 
the original, then in possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York), possesses an interest 
in connection with the abolition of the intendant's office: 

" I had the pleasure to receive your reply to the Committee against you, which gave 
me much satisfaction. The report I believe has been Industriously circulated Here, and 
I have found has reach'd Virga. I shall have an opportunity soon and will send the report 
and reply to my friend General Washington or Colo. Mason, who I know will be «lad 
to see them." 

4 William Harrison attended Mar. 24. 

8 The treaty with the Shawanese (which bears the date Jan. 31, not Jan. 1 1 
laid before Congress Mar. 29 and is found in the Journals under Apr. 17, together with 
other Indian treaties. 

[364]' Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Charles Francis Jenkins of Philadelphia. 



April, 1786 337 

prudent to bring the application before Congress as it is probable it would 
be attended with a denial. N Hampshire made a request of the same kind 
toward the close of the last Congress, but they were denied, it being then 
supposed imprudent to suffer the Public Stores to be taken from the 
Magazines and scattered through all the States. 2 

There is now on the floor of Congress but eight States, there having been 
nine but very few days the present year, it is attended with great incon- 
venience and damage to the affairs of the Union that the States are thus 
inattentive to their Representation, several subjects of great consideration 
are now before Congress and cannot (owing to the above circumstance) 
be taken up. 

It appears to me that the Congress of last. Year were not sufficiently 
apprised of the consiquence of a Treaty with the Barbary Powers, or 
they would not have conducted that business in the manner they did. I 
conceive it would have been much the best way to have sent a Person of 
Reputation and Character directly from hence with full Powers to have 
treated with those People. I am convinced it would not have been more 
expensive, it would have pleased those Powers much more and would 
have tended to bring the business to a more speedy conclusion, by a 
Letter from Mr. Adams we find that Mr. Barclay had not left France 
the 6th of December being detained by an attention to Mr. Beaumerchais 
accounts and by a Letter from Mr. Carmicael of the same date, 6 Deer, 
it appears that Mr. Lamb who is designed for Algiers was then at Madrid. 

Congress have lately appointed a Committe to consider wither any 
further measures can be taken in this business. 3 

The Delegates have no Power relative to the formation of the Court 
necessary to bring to issue the cause between Massachusetts and N York. 
I am in hopes the Court did not rise without attend'g to this circum- 
stance, any directions which your Excellency may have to communicate 
to the Delegates on this or any other subject will I dare say be chearfully 
obeyed. 4 I spent last evening at Mr. Temples the Family are well. I am 
With Every sentiment of esteam and respect 

Your Excellencys most Humble Servant 

Nathaniel Gorham 

2 For the New Hampshire case see the Journals, Oct. 4, 5, Nov. 2, 178^, and no. 230, 
ante. Despite the delegation's reluctance here indicated by Gorham the motion was made 
on Apr. 19 and lost. 

3 Cf. nos. 273 (note 4), 315, 329, ante. See the reports of the secretary for foreign 
affairs Mar. 22 and 30, and the committee report Apr. 5 (Journals, pp. 126, 147, 152). 
Letters of Adams Dec. 2, 6, 9, 12, 15, and Jan. 4 were read in Congress Mar. 29; one 
from Carmichael Dec. 9 (not Dec. 6) was read Apr. 4. Adams's letters are in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 539-560; that of Carmichael, ibid., III. 304. See also Jefferson 
to Jay Jan. 27, ibid., I. 713. It is Adams's letter of Dec. 6, as stated by Gorham, that 
relates to the Barbary affairs. That and the letters of Dec. 9 and Jan. 4 are in Adams's 
Works, VIII. 356-362. See further the Journals, Apr. 17 (p. 197 n.), May n; also nos. 
374, 380, 381, 388, 395, post. 

4 Resolves of the General Court appertaining to the matter were presented by the 
Massachusetts delegates Apr. 17. A letter from John Lawrence and Melancton Smith 
to Governor Clinton Apr. 17 (?), transmitting these resolves, was in N. Y. State Lib., 
Clinton Papers, no. 5727. 



338 Continental Congress 

365. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

New York April 6th 1786.' 
Sir, 

We have the Honor of inclosing You an Abstract of the Receipts and 
Expenditures of the last three Months, with the Balance remaining in 
the Continental Treasury, which We think proper to transmit you for the 
Information of the Executive. 

By a Resolution of Congress of the 2d Augst. 1785 the Board of 
Treasury are directed to lay before Congress on the first Monday in cm ry 
Month a similar Account which when received We shall deem incumbent 
on Us to send You. 8 

There are at present but eight States in Congress. 

We shall be very happy to be inform'd by You as soon as Convenience 
will admit, thro' what Channel We are to receive the Money due Us for 
our Allowance as Delegates.* 



366. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

Xew York, 9th Ap. 1786.' 
My Dear friend, 

. . . . 8 I have nothing in Politicks to communicate new or une xp e cte d 
The indian Treaty at the Miami has succeeded, so far as to have made 
friends of the Shawanese Tribe, and rendered security to the survey of 
the western Lands. Nine States were represented five or ten days [ago ?] , 
but Mr. Livermore is now gone and we have only eight States and two only 
from New England. 

The Letter to you from Mr. Adams came under cover to me, the seal 
and Direction I believe are Col. Smith's. 

[365] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., box, 1786 (in the writing of Hindman and signed by him and 
Harrison). 

2 Charles Thomson wrote to Jefferson Apr. 6, discoursing particularly upon the 
comparative conditions in Europe and America. He adds : " However this I can inform 
you that every state is busily employed in arranging its finances. Twelve states have 
granted the impost for discharging the principal and interest of the national debt and 
it is expected that N York will grant it in the present session of their legislature. Of 
your Annapolis acquaintance Messrs. Read, Gerry and Monroe are married and Osgood on 
the brink of matrimony." Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers ; ibid., Thomson Papers. 
II. (signed copy) ; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Revolutionary Paters, I. 205. 

8 In this instance the statement transmitted to Congress by the treasury board 
was for a period of three months (see the extract of their letter in the Journals under 
Apr. 5, p. 152 n.). These monthly reports are occasionally but not uniformly noted in the 
Journals. Other instances appear under Mar. 8 and May 8 (pp. 108 n., 242). Under 
May 8 the abstract is printed, although it is misplaced, as it gives the state of the 
treasury as of June 1. Cf. no. 393, post. 

* See no. 363, ante. 
[366PN. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers; Life of King, I. 165. 

2 Apr. 3 to 7 William Samuel Johnson was. as noted in his diary, " at Congrc^ 
Apr. 8 he was "at Committee"; Apr. 9 was Sunday; and on Apr. 10 he was again 
" at Congress ". 

•The omitted passage, as also another letter of the same date (ibid., p. 164), 
relates chiefly to King's marriage. With regard to representation, cf. no. 379, past. 



April, 1786 339 

The Arrets to which you allude Mr. Adams likewise inclosed in a 
letter to me, with information that he had written that he sent them to 
you, but recollecting that they might not have come before congress, he 
requested me, should that be the case, to communicate them ; I considered 
them as important, Mr. Jay is of the same opinion, they will be translated 
and published. I will see that you have Copies ; you have well recited their 
purport. 4 .... 

367. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

<-,. Atkinson April 12th, 1786. 

I have been honored by your Excellency's favour of the 3d instant 
advising me of the expected return of the honourable Mr. Livermore 
from Congress that it was necessary for Judge Walker and myself to 
consult each other upon the occasion, and that your excellency had written 
to him for that purpose as it was expected that one of us would immediately 
repair to New York in order that this State might not be without a 
representation in Congress. 

Although my private concerns are such as claim a very particular 
attention and am sensible that being concerned in public business can 
by no means add to the small estate I now possess, and at this critical 
conjuncture wish the State to be represented by gentlemen of greater 
abilities than I can pretend to claim. I say critical sir not only as it 
respects the federal union in general but very materially the intrest of 
this State in particular as being charged with a much greater proportion 
of the national debt than her just Quota, or, I had almost said than she 
can ever discharge agreeable to the existing requisitions of Congress — all 
which will induce me to urge Judge Walker to set off for Congress 
without loss of time. Nevertheless if he should decline and your excellency 
judge it expedient for me to proceed it shall be my endeavour to make 
such arrangements in my affairs as to be able to set off for Congress 
immediately on being furnished with the usual requisites indispensible 
for the undertaking. 

I shall be at Portsmouth shortly and will do myself the honor to wait 
on your excellency. 

368. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Matthew Griswold). 1 

New York, April 12, 1786. 

Our affairs seem to indicate the approach of some great crisis. Our 

Trade in a very distracted situation, Britain watching for some oppor- 

4 See Gerry to King Apr. 2, in Life of King, I. 164; also King to Gerry Apr. 16, 
ibid., p. 166; cf. nos. 376, 386, post. The order for the publication of the two arrets of 
Sept. 18 and 25 was given Apr. 10. See the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, p. 961. 

[367] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

[368] 1 Stan. V. Henkels, Catalogue, no. 720, item 68 (extract). The Catalogue states 
that the letter was written by Stephen Mix Mitchell and was signed by him and William 
Samuel Johnson. 



340 Continental Congress 

tune season to revenge her smarts, the fickle Indian nations ready to 
join those who best can supply their wants, and jealous of the approach 
of the Americans so near their Territories, the states unwilling or neglect- 
ing to adopt almost any one Measure which can be proposed to them by 
Congress so as to act jointly and efficaciously for mutual Benefit. 

369. Edward Carrington to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York Ap'l 13, 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

.... The day before yesterday information was given to Congress 
that some of the Assistants in your late department were still, notwith- 
standing the abolishment of the department, issuing your printed cer- 
tificates and that it was to be apprehended that abuses might be made in 
their still exercising this power. I explained to them as well as I could 
why it might be necessary for those certificates still to issue under your 
Authority, but at the same time admitted that it might be well to have 
some communication with you upon the Subject, they have come to a 
Resolution that the Board of Treasury take measures for having all the 
Blanks now out called in, and I suppose the Board will of course write you 
upon the Subject, should anything occur to you as proper farther to be 
said upon the Subject be pleased to write to me thereof, it is indeed 
probable that this power may be abused by some of the department, if 
the issues still continue in the hands of all who have been authorised to 
issue certificates while they were in office. 2 .... 

370. Edward Carrington to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York April 16, 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

In consequence of a request of Colo. Heth, My successor in the Commis- 
sion for Western Accounts, and with the consent of Genl. Parsons who 
is now here, I again try you upon the point of acting as a third person in 
that business. I am well assured that upon the allowance hitherto held 
out by Congress, it could not be expected that any Gentleman could afford 

[36g] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XIX. 31 (addressed, "Colo. Timothy 
Pickering or Major Sam'l Hodgdon — Kree Ed Carrington"). 

2 On Apr. 7 a memorial of Jonathan Burrall, Joseph Bindon, and Edward Fax, 
relative to difficulties encountered in settling the accounts of the staff departments of the 
army (see no. 348, note 2, ante), was read in Congress, and on Apr. 8 a report on the 
memorial was made by the secretary of Congress. On Apr. 10 "A motion for calling in 
and cancelling all the certificate paper delivered to the late qr Master " was referred to 
the board of treasury to report (Journals, p. 160 n.). There is no Journal record for 
Apr. 11 ("the day before yesterday"), but on Apr. 12 (Journals, p. 182 n.) the subject 
was referred to a committee of which Carrington was a member, and this committee 
reported Apr. 20. Action on the report was taken by Congress May 8, and the board of 
treasury wrote to Pickering relative to the matter the same day (Mass. Hist. Soc., 
Pickering Papers, XIX. 48). Cf. nos. 383, 300, post. The absence of a record for Apr. 11 is 
probably explained by William Samuel Johnson's diary entry for that day : " at 
Commenccm't ", that is, at Columbia College. Apr. 12 and 13 he was "at Congress", 
Apr. 14 he was "at St. Pauls", and Apr. 15 (Saturday) he was "at Comm'ee ". 

[370] l Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XIX. 35. 



April, 1/86 341 

to go from home upon it, but if you will go provided an adequate allow- 
ance can be obtained, Congress must again be tried thereupon, be good 
enough to write by the next post how far you may probably be brought 
with the Measure that I may Judge whether it will be worth while to make 
a trial, in which communication I assure you I will not conceive you in any 
terms to have so committed yourself as to be under an obligation to 
accept after the allowance is fixed upon. 2 

P.S. Yr. Answer by the next post is necessary to be in time before Genl. 
Parsons goes away to Connecticut. 

371. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Hawkins. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
c . April 18, 1786. 

On the 10 I received and communicated to Congress your letters of 
the 14 feby. and 20 March, with the papers enclosed. By the same post 
which brought your letters came the Commissioners joint letters of Novr. 
17, their journal from Novr. 28 to 6 Jany. and their letters of Deer. 2 
and Jany. 4 and 14, with the treaties they have entered into with the 
Cherokees, Choctaws and Chicasaues and sundry other papers enclosed, 
all which were communicated to Congress. The treaties are entered on 
the journal and copies of them as soon as possible will be transmitted to 
the States. The other matters contained in your letters are under the 
consideration of a committee. I have no doubt your conduct will meet 
the approbation of Congress. As soon as they have come to a determina- 
tion on the subjects contained in your letters I shall not fail to acquaint 
you of it. 2 I am sorry your want of health prevented your coming on to 
this place 

372. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

r , ~ New York, April 10, 1786. 

Dear Gerry, r 7i ' 

A British Packet arrived yesterday, but nothing important has trans- 
pired. 2 .... 

2 See no. 123, note 2, ante. The act of Apr. 13, 1785, provided that the Federal 
commissioner of accounts in the matter of Virginia's claims for expenses incurred in con- 
nection with the ceded western territory, in conjunction wth the commissioner appointed 
by the state, should appoint a third commissioner. In consequence of his appointment as 
Indian commissioner Parsons had not as yet entered upon the Virginia business, and on 
Sept. 4, 1786, Congress instructed the secretary to inform General Parsons that it was the 
expectation of Congress that he no longer delay the adjustment of those claims. In a 
letter of Sept. 25 Parsons explained his delay, and two days later tendered his resignation 
{Journals, Sept. 27, Oct. 2). On Oct. 4 Congress accepted the resignation and the next 
day appointed Edward Fox as commissioner. Cf. no. 408, post. 
[37 1] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 46. 

2 The letters, etc., from the Indian commissioners were referred to a committee 
Apr. 10, and the committee made report Apr. 17, under which date the treaties are re- 
corded. For further consideration of the subject see the Journals, May 17, June 1, 12, 21, 
July 12. See also no. 361, ante, and no. 375, post. 
[372] x Life of King, I. 169. 

2 Jay transmitted to Congress Apr. 20 a number of letters from Thomas Barclay 
{Journals, p. 204 n.). 



342 Continental Congress 

[P. S.] Mr. Anstcy who has come out in the last Packet, is impowered 
by the Commissioners, who receive and allow the claims of the Rufugees, 
to examine the several offices for the Records of the conveyances of the 
estates which the Refugees have declared themselves possessed of. Mr. 
Adams recommends him to Congress at the request of Lord Carmarthen. 
He is merely a private character. 8 

373. James Monroe to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs 

(John Jay). 1 

„. New York, April 20, 1786. 

The Committee to whom it is referred to report the plan of a temporary 
government for such States as shall be erected under the acts of cession 
from individual States, previous to their admission into the Confederacy, 
as also to organize the Indian department, request the favor of your atten- 
dance and advice upon those subjects upon Saturday next in Congress 
chamber at half after ten in the morning. The first question which arises 
with respect to the government is, Shall it be upon Colonial principles, 
under a governor, council and judges of the U. S., removeable at a cer- 
tain period of time and they admitted to a vote in Congress with the com- 
mon rights of the other States, or shall they be left to themselves until 
that event? In the former instance how the correspondence or superin- 
tendence of such colony or colonies, shall be systematically preserved and 
presented to the view of Congress? The same question occurs with respect 
to the Indian department. These subjects altho' not immediately within 
your province we consider as intimately connected with it, and shall be 
happy in your assistance in forming those arrangements which will be- 
come necessary respecting them. 2 

8 Adams's letter to Jay introducing John Anstey, dated Jan. 26, is in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 561. Jay's reply, May 4, is ibid., p. 562. Sec also Carmarthen to 
Adams Nov. 30, Adams's reply Dec. 2 (ibid., p. 540), and Adams to Jay Dec. 2 (ibid,, 
p. 539). Cf. nos. 380, 386, 387, 448, post. See also Jay to Lord Lansdowne Apr. ao in Cor- 
respondence of Jay, III. 191 (the name is there printed "Ansley "). A private letter from 
Jay to Adams May 4 is ibid., p. 194 (see no. 388, note 3, post). Franklin wrote to William 
Hunter Nov. 24, 1786 : " I find Mr. Anstey, whom you recommend to me, a very agreeable, 
sensible man, and shall render him any service that may be in my power." (Writings <'/ 
Franklin, ed. Smyth. IX. 547)- 

[373] ' Correspondence oj John Jay, III. 190. 

2 The committee referred to by Monroe was doubtless the committee appointed 
Mar. 27 (Monroe, Johnson, King, Kean, and Pinckney) on the report of the committee 
respecting the Kaskaskias, and to consider and report forms of government t<> be insti- 
tuted in the western territory. On a related phase of the problem, namely, a quo- 
respecting the cessions, a grand committee had brought in two reports, the outcome of 
which was a resolve July 7 (see no. 315, ante). For the antecedents of that part of the 
assignment pertaining to the Kaskaskias see particularly the report of Secretary Thomson 
Dec. 28, 1785. Cf. nos. 101, 156, ante. The committee offered a report May 10, including a 
plan of a temporary government, which was assigned for consideration May 18, and actually 
debated July 13. See nos. 394. 396, 417, 442, 443, 471, post. 

The organization of an Indian department appears to have devolved upon a different 
committee, which had in part however the same personnel. On Mar. 21 a committee 
(Pinckney, King, Monroe, Mitchell, and Gorham) was appointed "to prepare and report 
an Ordinance for the Regulation of trade with the Indians ", but on June 6 this committee 
was superseded by one (Pinckney, Monroe, and King) "to form an Ordinance for the 
complete arrangement and government of the Indian department ". The committee re- 
ported an ordinance June 28. See nos. 394, 407, 416-418, post. 



April, 1786 343 

374. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

„_ , „ , New York 2 1 st April 86. 

My dear Gem., 

.... I have taken the liberty to shew in some private circles your 
observations with respect to the present prospect of our foederal affairs, 
and I flatter myself the Justice and decision of your remarks will aid the 
friends to the Union in this city in their exertions to incline the assembly 
of this state to adopt the revenue system asked for by Congress, and at 
this period essential to the existence of the Union. 2 

The lower house have passed the impost fettered with conditions which 
render it inadmissible by Congress. I hope the senate will amend it, and 
that at length we shall be possessed of some permanent and adequate fund 
for the discharge of our foreign debt. 3 

We have no accounts by the packet of the progress of our negotiators 
with the barbary powers, nor have we much reason to hope for a tolerable 
termination of their mission. 4 The british cabinet evidence whenever 
they can their zeal to destroy our commerce, and they certainly will suc- 
ceed in their favorite plan, unless the states give adequate powers to Con- 
gress to counteract by commercial regulations the injurys imposed on our 
trade 

[P. S.] I enclose a plan for the government of militia, which does great 
honor to its author. 5 

375. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, 

April 22d, 1786. 2 

*J If y 

In obedience to the order of Congress I have the honor to transmit to 
your Excellency herewith enclosed copies of the Treaties, which the United 
States in Congress assembled have by their Commissioners entered into 
with the Shawanese, Cherokee, Choctaw and Chickasaw Indian Nations. 

Considering how much the security comfort and happiness of the fron- 
tier settlements depend on being at peace with the neighboring Indians, and 
how important it is to the whole confederacy that the Savages on our 
borders be impressed with a sacred regard for treaties, and with a firm, 

[374] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See Washington to Lee Apr. 5, in Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 156; cf. no. 343, 
ante. 

3 Rufus King wrote to Elbridge Gerry Apr. 16 : " The House of Assembly of 
New York have agreed to an impost but reserve the power of making the laws for its 
collection and render the officers accountable to and removable by themselves. This is 
so great a departure from the system that it amounts to a denial of the impost " (Life of 
King, I. 166). See nos. 348, 349, 354-356, 358, 359, ante, 381, 383, 384, 388, 394, 401, post. 

4 See no. 364, note 3, ante. 

5 The author was Gen. Henry Knox, secretary at war. See no. 352, ante, and no. 
526, post. 

[37.S] * N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's papers; Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 433; N. Y. 
State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. S73i A; N. J. State Lib.; Library of Congress, Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 48 ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 599. 

2 Under this date (Saturday) William Samuel Johnson's diary entry is, "Very 
Rainy at Comm'ee ". Apr. 17 to 21 he was "at Congress". 



344 Continental Congress 

unshaken confidence in our Justice, honor and national faith solemnly 
pledged, I have no doubt but your Excellency will exert the means in 
your power to enforce a due observence of the several articles of these 
treaties so far as they concern your State or relate to the Conduct of its 
Citizens. 8 

376. Rufus King to Jonathan Jackson. 1 
n „. New York, 22 April, 1786. 

Whether your foreign correspondence has furnished you with two 
arrets of the King of France, one of the 18. and the other of the 25. of 
September last relative to the cod Fishery, or if you possess them, whether 
their operation will in any degree affect your mercantile arrangements, 
I am unable to determine; if your individual interest is not concerned, that 
of some of your friends may be, and as these Regulations may not be 
within your or their knowledge, I find a sufficient apology in communicat- 
ing to you the substance of them. 

The arret of the 18th of September grants a bounty of ten livres the 
quintal upon all dried cod Fish the produce of the french Fishery and 
introduced into the French West Indies in French bottoms navigated by 
the King's subjects; and five livres the quintal upon all such Fish intro- 
duced in like manner into any of the Ports of Portugal, Spain, or Italy ; 
the arret of the 25th of September imposes a Duty of five livres the quintal 
upon all dried cod Fish imported in the French West Indies, by any 
stranger, or in any foreign bottom. 

These arrets are now translating in the office of foreign Affairs. I 
will transmit to you copies of them as soon as they are finished. 2 The policy 
of these measures are most obvious, and ought to be a new motive with 
the several States to vest the power of regulating commerce in some body 
governed by a single will, and whose authority would be sufficient to 
reciprocate these disadvantages to the power imposing them 

I thank you for your polite letter by Mr. Emery, and hope that ere 
long he will be entirely satisfied on the subject of his memorial to con- 
gress ; 8 It will always afford me pleasure to promote your views or those 
of your friends 

8 See nos. 361, 366, 371, ante. The treaties are recorded in the Journals under 
Apr. 17. Printed copies of them are filed with the Massachusetts letter. The Cherokee 
treaty (Nov. 28, 1785) is in N. C. State Ras.. XVII. 5K2 ; the Choctaw treaty (Jan. 3, 
1786) is ibid., XVIII. 799; the Shawanese treaty (Jan. 31, 1786) is ibid., p. 513. < k>v< 
Caswell wrote to the North Carolina delegates Apr. 3 that the treaties with the southern 
Indians were "so repugnant to our Bill of Rights and Constitution, and so great an 
infringement on the Rights of the Legislature of this State that it becomes my duty to 
require that you do not by any means consent to the Ratification of the Treaties made 
by the Commissioners aforesaid with the Cherokees, Chickasaws and Choctaws, or with 
either of the said Nations " (ibid., p. 591). See Blount to Caswell Mar. 1, _\ and Caswell to 
Blount Apr. 4 (ibid., pp. 553, 554, 594) I cf. Blount to the commissioners \',, v . aa, 28, 1785 
(ibid.. XVII. S78-580) ; also nos. 384, 394, 47 1. 508, 640, 719, post. 
[376] » Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, XLIX. 83. 

2 See no. 366, ante , and no. 386, post. 

• A petition of S. Emery respecting the brig Hope of Liverpool and referred to a 
committee was laid before Congress Nov. 25, 1785, but no action upon the petition appears 
to be recorded in the Journals. See ibid., May 3, 1784, Jan. 19, Feb. 22, Mar. 7, June I, 
July 1. 1785. 



April, 1786 345 

377. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

New York April 28th, 1786. 
Sir, 

We were honored with Your's inclosing Copies of two Laws passed 
the last Session of Assembly, and a Letter for Messrs. Willing Morris 
and Swanwick, which We have sent forward to them, and for which We 
feel Ourselves particularly obliged. 

You will herewith receive the Copy of a Letter from the Board of Trea- 
sury to Mr. White directing him to continue the Receipt of the Claims of 
the Citizens of Maryland, to the first of June next, which conforms to the 
Wishes and Directions of your Letter. 2 

378. Nathan Dane to Thomas Ivers. 1 

New York April 29, 1786. 2 
Dear Sir, 

I have hitherto omitted to call on you for money as a Delegate, as 
it has not been easy to sell bills here on our Treasury, or to get money 
conveyed from Boston to this place. I therefore took a general letter 
of Credit from two of my friends in Beverly on a house in this City but 
as I must make provision for repayment on my return of the money I 
have so taken up to the amount nearly of my allowance from the State, 
I wish you to lay by for me as much money as you can towards paying my 
allowance as a Delegate for six or seven months. I expect to be in Boston 
about the first of June. I am sensible, Sir, our State has not money to 
pay their servants punctually for their services — my expences hitherto have 
been about five dollars a day, and as I have a family and but small prop- 
erty it will be a very great injury to my affairs not to receive from the 
State on my return a sum at least equal to what I have expended while a 
Delegate in Congress. 3 

379. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 30 Ap. 1786 
Dear Gerry 

.... We go on in congress as when you left us. Three days since 
October only have nine states been on the Floor. Eight are now here, 
when v/e shall have nine is a melancholy uncertainty. I proposed a few 
days since that congress should Resolve that provided on a certain day 

[377] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, box, 1786 (in the writing of Hindman and signed by him 
and Harrison). 

2 John White was commissioner of accounts for Maryland. 
[378] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M.O.C. 

2 William Samuel Johnson notes under the dates Apr. 24 to 28 that he was " at 
Congress"; under Apr. 29 (Saturday) he records his activities as "exam'g Witness". 
Whether this testimony concerned business of Congress is not known. 

8 Cf. no. 379, post. Thomas Ivers was treasurer of Massachusetts. See no. 212, 
ante. 

[379] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers; Life of King, I. 133. 



346 Continental Congress 

sufficiently distant for information to reach all the States in season, the 
states were not so represented as to give power to administer the Govern- 
ment, that Congress would adjourn without Day. 2 Something of this kind 
must be done — it is a mere Farce to remain here as we have done since 
last October. Foreigners know our situation, and the friends of free 
Governments through the world must regret it. 

Resolves have been passed upon Resolves and Letter after letter has been 
sent to the deficient States, and all without the desired Effect, we are with- 
out money, or the prospect of it, in the federal Treasury; and the states, 
many of them, care so little about the Union that they take no measures 
to keep a representation in Congress, the civil list begin to clamour, there 
is not money to pay them, they are now unpaid for a longer period than 
since the circulation of Paper Money. 

The Handful of Troops over the Ohio are mutinous, and desert because 
they are unpaid. 8 the money borrowed in Europe is exhausted, and this 
very day our Foreign ministers have it not in their power to receive their 
salaries for their support. When, My Dear friend, will the evils conse- 
quent to this inattention in the states, terminate — the people of the states 
do not know their dangerous situation ; this torpor and inactivity should 
alarm the Guardians of the People; but indeed the legislatures seem the 
least attentive. Pray think of our situation, and advise me. I can open my 
heart with freedom to you. You are now at home, and will be concerned 
in the Government of the State. Can there be no means devised whereby 
Massachusetts can yield something to the common Treasury — since the 
organization of the Board of Treasury, the state has paid nothing, mt 
are told of it in congress, we justify by declaring that past Exertions had 
exhausted us, but that we should revive, when the States would accede to 
such commercial Regulations as would place the american navigation on 
an equal Footing with that of Foreigners. 

this is ostensible, but poor as we are, I hope we could do more than we 
now accomplish, indeed the State neither pays any thing to the federal 
treasury, nor supports her Delegates. After two or three months Notice to 
Mr. Ivers, I drew on him, and he delayed the payment of my Bill in such 
a manner that I was compelled to draw on my own funds, to replace the 
money reed, for my Draft on the treasurer.* 

this personal affair is of no other importance than to show that every 
thing that concerns the Union of federal affairs, is postponed for other 
considerations. 

2 Such a motion does not appear in the Journals, but on Apr. \j there was a motion 
" To report the power which Congress may rightfully exercise to compel the attendance 
of the members ". The maker of the motion is unnamed, but the committee appointed was 
Henry Lee, King, and Kean. A similar motion, " to report on the rights of Congress over 
their members ". had been referred to a committee (Lawrance, Lee, and Monroe) Mar. 2, 
but that committee appears to have been discharged Apr. 17, when the new committee w.i^ 
appointed. The latter committee made a report June 12, which was debated and amended 
June 15, and, with a further modification, was adopted July 14. See the Journals, pp. 92 n., 
'97 "•» 338, 408. Secretary Thomson transmitted the act to the states July 26 (no. 446, 
post). 

* See the Journals. Mar. 21. 27. July 25. 

* Cf. no. 378, ante. 



May, 1786 347 

/ can support myself, and freely would do it, if I can serve our Country, 
because in her prosperity is included the personal Security of every indi- 
vidual. But if a dissolution must come, and dissolve our Government will, 
unless the several states immediately exert themselves in its favor, it 
behoves every one to withdraw in season, to Effect, if possible, some sort 
of personal Security. 

I am not prone to imagine Evils which are improbable, on the other 
Hand placed in a situation in a high degree responsible, ought I to be 
silent when my Judgement convinces me that the greatest Danger is near — 
France has required a ratification of the consular convention, we have 
not been so represented this year as to be able even to consider it. 5 you 
know my disposition and can pity my Feelings. 

380. Thomas Rodney, Diary. 1 

New York 

In Congress May 2d 1786. A report was read respecting a proposed 
peace with the Algirenes and Barbary States. 

Mr. Pinkny — said That the sum of 80,000 dol's heretofore appropriated 
to the purchasing peace with those States was insufficient — that it was 
necessary to Send a larger Sum, that Congress aught to address the States 
and let them know our Situation that they might provide — that we ought 
to send a sufficient sum and a person of Talents and Integrity to negotiate 
a Treaty — that Mr. Lamb the person now there is not a sober Man but of 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 25, 28, May 1 (pp. 209 n., 216, 224 n.). Otto's communica- 
tions to Jay, Apr. 18, are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 203, 204. For the earlier 
phases of the subject see nos. 195 (note 7), 244, 256, ante. On Apr. 25, 1786, through a 
communication of the new French charge d'affaires, Louis Guillaume Otto (Apr. 18, 
Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 203, 204), the matter of the consular convention was 
once more pressed upon Congress, and on Apr. 28 Jay laid the history of the affair before 
that body and at his suggestion Jefferson was instructed to explain to the French court 
the causes of the delay. Two months later, when nothing further had been done in the 
matter, Otto again, in a somewhat incisive note to Jay, urged that Congress come to a 
decision (June 27, ibid., p. 235 ; see also Jay to Otto July 3, and Otto to Jay July 6, ibid., 
pp. 236, 237). Jay brought the matter to the attention of Congress July 7, and on the 
10th his report was referred back to him for further report. The new report was pre- 
sented Aug. 18, was taken into consideration Sept. 12, and referred to a committee, which 
was however discharged Oct. 2. On Oct. 3 the secretary's report of Aug. 18 (found in the 
Journals under Sept. 12) was adopted almost verbatim. It included a recommendation that 
Congress propose to the French government that the convention be so amended as to make 
it conform to the original scheme and that a clause be added limiting its duration to eight 
or ten years. See Jay to Jefferson Aug. 18 and Oct. 3 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
I. 765-767), and Jefferson to Jay July 8 (ibid., p. 769, dated April 8). Under the date 
Oct. 3 both the original plan or " scheme " and the signed convention are once more 
spread on the Journals. A few days later Jay discovered that as between the printed 
scheme and the copy in his office, which he had been using, there were numerous discrep- 
ancies, one of which, existence in the printed text of a clause not found in his copy, rendered 
the scheme even " more ineligible " than he had before thought it. Nevertheless he thought 
that the proper course to pursue was to make the convention conformable to the original 
scheme and limit its duration. See the Jownals, Oct. 10 and 12. Jay's letter to Congress 
(Oct. 9) is also in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 178 3-1789, I. 237. See also Otto to Jay Oct. 9, 
and Jay's reply Oct. 12 (ibid., p. 239), Jay to Jefferson Oct. 27 (ibid., p. 794), and Jeffer- 
son's reply Jan. 9, 1787 (ibid., II. 18). The final outcome of the long-drawn-out affair was 
the negotiation of a new convention by Jefferson in 1788. See nos. 716, 892, post. For a 
discussion of the significance of the affair see Bemis, American Secretaries of State, 
I. 253-250. 

[380] 1 Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

29 



348 Continental Congress 

a Loose Caracter unfit for that purpose, that he was Surprised Congress 
appointed such a person etc. 

Mr. Grason — Said the Sum was Contemptable, that Even the great 
Maritime States of Europe were Obliged to buy peace of those pirates 
and that they at least winked at the depredations on our Trade that prob- 
ably G. Brittain woud Give them a larger sum than we had sent to Con- 
tinue those depredations, and that if we Expected peace we must outbid 
them etc. Almost every Member in Congress rose on this occasion, and 
the general Sentiment respect'g this matter Singlely was to the same pur- 
pose. But the Consideration how money was to [be] procured drew into 
argument the whole affairs of the United States. So it was postponed till 
Munday. 2 

according to the order of the day, the Seneca King Captn. Abail or Mr. 
Corn planter was introduced with five other Indian Chiefs of the same 
Nation. 3 They were Clean and neatly drest in Match Coats a[nd] Leg- 

2 See nos. 31S. 329, 364. 374, ante, 381, 388, 395, post. 

8 Capt. John O'Bail (O'Beal or 0"Beel), better known as Cornplanter. was brought 
to the attention of Congress Apr. 26 through a letter of Gen. Richard Butler, dated Apr. 
25. The committee to whom the letter was referred made a report Apr. 28 (Friday), 
whereupon Congress set the following Tuesday (May 2) for receiving Captain O'Bail and 
his five associates. Butler had transmitted some speeches made by the Cornplanter at 
Carlisle in March, and these were referred (May 2) to a committee, who reported May 4. 
On May 5 Cornplanter and his associates were again admitted to an audience, when 
Chairman Ramsay made an address to them and Cornplanter made a brief reply. Ramsay's 
address and Cornplanter's reply are found in the Journals under May 5. noted as being 
part of " The publication made by the Chairman of Congress respecting the speeches and 
audiences of Capt. O'Bell, the Cornplanter, May, 1786", but Cornplanter's speech of May 
2 is not embodied in the Journals. In the Bibliographical Notes the publication referred to 
is noted, with the remark, " No printed copy has yet been located ". The whole publication, 
including an account of the proceedings at Carlisle as well as the proceedings in Cony 
is found in the New York Daily Advertiser of May 8. Cornplanter's speech of M 
as printed in that publication, is given below. Rodney's version of it was probably set down 
from memory. In what manner the official version was recorded there is no means of 
knowing. 

Following the report of proceedings at Carlisle the publication continues: "Captain 
O'Beel proceeded on his journey to New- York. Congress agreed to receive a visit from 
him and his associates on the 2d instant. Upon his being introduced he spoke as follows : 

' Brothers of the Thirteen Fires I am glad to see you : It gives me pleasure to see 
meet in council to consult about public affairs. May the Great Spirit above direct you to 
such measures are good. I wish to put the chunks together and to make the Thirteen 
Fires burn brighter. We thank you for sending this man (general Butler) among: ti<. We 
know him to be a good man, and wish he might be continued to do bosun n us. 

One man cannot do every thing, we therefore wish you would fix upon another man to 
help him. We have long known general Morris, and would be pleased you would appoint 
him. He is also a very good man, and much beloved by the Indians. We wish you would 
appoint men to whom we might apply for a redress of any evils that may be done us. We 
pray the Great Spirit above to direct you and us that we may live together in peace. 

'Brothers, — I have spoke my mind on other matters to general Butler, at Carlisle, and 
he promised to send my talk to you. I hope you have received it, and that you will give 
me an answer to what I have said, I need not say it again as you know it alread 

In this publication the introductory note to the proceedings of May 5 varies somewhat 
from the record in the Journals; accordingly it is here reproduced: 

" The Cornplanter and his associates, accompanied by generals Butler and Parsons, 
commissioners for holding treaties with the Indians, and captain Hutchins, geograph 
the United States, were again introduced to Congress on the 5th instant. The honorable 
David Ramsay, chairman of Congress then addressed them as follows : " (as in the 
Journals, May 5). 

William Samuel Johnson records in his diary for May 2 : "at Congress gave aud'n to 
Ind'n Chief " ; for May 5, " at Congress Indian aud'n ". See further the Journals, May 18, 
19 (p. 293 n.), 22, 24 (P- 306 n.), 30, June 2; cf. no. 385, post. 



May, 1786 349 

gings clean Shirts — all new — The King advanced to the Chair and shuck 
hands with the President, then went round and shuck hands with each 
member — the rest did the same — then the King standing in the Floor 
addressed Congress. 

" Brothers I have long wanted to see the thirteen fires, and I thank the 
great Spirit that there is a Bright Sun and a Clear Sky at our first Meet- 
ing. I am glad to see you sitting in Council and I look up to the great 
Spirit, who is King over us all, to direct you right. We were born in 
the same Country and aught to live like brothers. 

" Brothers I want you to Listen to me a few words, I am never tired to 
do good, I cannot be tired of doing right, I hope you will listen and Con- 
sider my speech, The Indians are but poor they can't be rich — for their 
parts are known their sentiments, and mind, are fixt, therefore you will 
Consider and take pitty of my people, for they have no place to go to, nor 
any body to apply to, they hope you will appoint some body for them to 
apply to. They want you to appoint General Butler to do business for 
the Indians, because they know him, and know that he is their friend. 

" Brothers Consider this and look to the great Spirit and he will direct 
you right. 

" Brothers I want you to Consider the speech I made before (meaning 
the Treaty) and do what is right. 

" Brothers of the Thirteen Fires I have no more to say only that I hope 
the great Spirit, which Rules above, will direct you right, and move your 
hearts to do good." 

381. Stephen Mix Mitchell to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York May 3d 1786. 
Sir, 

.... This Day we have ten States represented in Congress, and one 
Delegate from each of the other three, Georgia excepted ; Tomorrow we 
propose to bring forward the Question relative to our Cession of the 
western Territory, but we have but little hopes it will be accepted, there 
is a peradventure that it may be and we shall leave no Stone unturn'd to 
effect our purpose, we dare not delay it any longer as the Assembly meets 
next week, perhaps a Delay of a few Days would prove favorable. 2 

The Impost is granted in this state after a Sort and the paper money is 
receivable in pay for the Duty and a promise (I am told in the Act which 
I have not seen) that if any Depretiation should take place upon the 
money, by which the Continent should be subject to a Loss, the state will 
make it good. 3 

Another Obstacle has arose to the operation of the Impost in Pensyl- 
vania, which is, that the Impost on their part shall not be carried into 

[381] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 For prior consideration of the Connecticut cession see the Journals, Jan. 18, 
Apr. 7, 10, 20. Cj. no. 336, ante. On Apr. 20 consideration of the act was set for Apr. 27, 
but except for an erased entry May 11 it does not appear in the Journals until May 22. 
That there was a discussion of the subject May 4 is evidenced by Rodney's diary for that 
date (no. 387, past). See nos. 394, 402, 405-407, post. 

3 See nos. 374, 383. 384, 388, 394. 4<>i, post. 



350 Continental Congress 

Execution unless the Supplementary funds are provided in all the States.* 
when the time will arrive for all the States to agree in any one thing I 
know not. 

No late Intelligence is reed, relative to the Success of our Legations 
to the Barbary powers. Every body prognosticates ill success in that Busi- 
ness on Acct. of the blundering Talents of our Connect't Man Mr. Lamb, 
and we have the morti[fi] cation to see now and then a Shrug and Sneer 
at his Expence. I hope he will convince the world he is a Ram or at least 
an Old Sheep. The world speak of him in a very contemptible Light.* 

I intended to have seen you at Hartford e'er this time, but cannot yet 
content myself to leave the state unrepresented when we have only two 
New England States on the floor, ours included. 

I enclose to you a Letter for Col. Trumbull which was handed me this 
Day and beg you to forward it. I find the Society of Cincinnati is very 
generally unpopular and tho't to be a dangerous body, hope nothing will 
be done to render the deserving Sons of Mars unacceptable in the Eyes 
of their Brethren 

David Ramsay to Benjamin Rush. 1 

. May 3d, 1786, New York. 

.... We have now eleven States. I sat in my chamber this morning 
till near eleven, from that hour till half after three in the chair of Con- 
gress and heard some of the best reasoning and most elegant speaking I 
have ever heard in my life. 2 My present station has excused me from all 
Committees which has given me more leisure for my history.* | My] 
time will be out next week and I shall then set out for Philada. 

383. Thomas Rodxky, Diary. 1 

[May 3, 1786.] 

Wednesday May the ?</ Mr. Pinckney of S. Carolina Moved that a 
grand Committee be appointed, To Take into consideration the affairs of 
the Nation. 

Said our Situation was Such that it was necessary To inform the St.i 
thereof — that it was necessary that Congress should be invested with 
greater powers and therefore it was Necessary to appoint a Convention for 
that purpose or that Congress should call on them by requisition for Such 
powers as was Necessary to enable them to Administer the Federal Gov- 
ernment or it must fall — That the Confederation was deficient in powers 
of Commerce; in raising troops, and in the means of Executing those 
powers that were given etc. 

« Cf. nos. 384, 449 (note 2), post. 
8 See nos. 364 (note 3), 374. 380, ante, 388, 395, post. 
[38a] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 
* See no. 383, post. 

8 In an omitted passage Ramsay speaks of his investigations among the records 
of Congress, particularly Washington's letters. In many of his letters to Rush his history 
is the sole or chief topic. 

[3831 1 Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 



May, 1786 351 

Mr. Munroe of Virginia alledged that Congress had full power to raise 
Troops ; and that they had a right to compel a Complyance in every case 
where they acted agreable to the powers given them by the Confederation ; 
That all the States but N. Y. had invested them with Commercial powers 
(a member informed that N. Y. past an act for that purpose yesterday) 
therefore he saw no occasion for a Convention etc. 

Much was said pro and Con, on this Subject To the Same purpose 
on one side or the other and then the matter was refer'd to a Committee 
of the whole on Tuesday next 2 

A Report respecting the great official Department [s] came forward. 
Much debating — pospon'd Till Munday. 3 

Loan officer for the N. Y. State Voted for 5, for Caughran, 2, for 
Livingston, 3 blanks so not determined — postponed. 4 

384. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

Wednesday night May 3d 1786 New York. 
Dear sir, 

after a passage of eighteen Days from Wilmington, I arriv'd here Yes- 
terday half after twelve and finding Mr. White here we boath presented 
oure Credentials and took oure seats this Day. receiv'd Youre Instruc- 
tions with the resolve of the Counsil and am sorry to inform You that 
the treaty was reciev'd and entered on the journals before we came here, 
under these circumstances I judge it will be prudent, to let the matter rest 
Untill Mr. Blount takes his seat, when Assistance will be of infinite ad- 
vantage in the Undertaking, and the Delay will not be attended with any 
111 consequence. 2 it is not in my power to give You any satisfactory 
accounts of the Business before Congress, as time has not furnished an 
oppertunity for my own information, shall embrace the first oppertunity 
to furnish You with proper Intelligence and shall esteem it an honour to 
be favoured with Youre advice on every subject of importance. 

2 Only Pinckney's motion for the assignment of Tuesday (May 9) to take into 
consideration in committee of the whole the state of public affairs is found in the Journals. 
The subject does not appear to have been taken up at the time designated. Cf. no. 403, post. 
With regard to the New York acts see nos. 384, 388, 394, 407, 434, post. 

3 The Journals contain no record of the consideration of the subject May 3, but it 
does appear to have been under consideration May 4 and 5 (see the treasury report May 4 
and King's motion May 5), and some resolves were adopted May 8. For the antecedent 
history of those resolves see the Journals, Jan. 12, 25, 31, Mar. 24 (pp. 131, 135 n.), 27 
(p. 139 n.), 29 (p. 144"-), Apr. 8; cf. nos. 348, 369 (note 2), ante, and no. 390, note 2, post. 
On May 3 the secretary for foreign affairs addressed a circular letter to the states, by 
order of Congress, inquiring " how far the several states have complied with the Proclama- 
tion of Congress of the 14th Jan., 1784", etc. (Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 759; N. C. State 
Recs., XVIII. 600). See nos. 402 (note 3), 407 (note 3), post. 

4 Although Wednesday, May 3, had been assigned for the election of a Continental 
loan officer for the state of New York, the Journals do not record the balloting of that day. 
On May 8 John Cochran was elected. See the Journals, Apr. 28, May 1 (pp. 219-222, 
224 n.), May 2 (p. 228 n.), May 8 (pp. 239, 240 n.). 

[384] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. ("Honored by Mr. James"); N. C. 
State Fees., XVIII. 601. 

2 See Caswell to the delegates Apr. 3 (N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 591), and his 
reply to this letter June 7 (ibid., p. 644) ; cf. no. 375, ante, and nos. 471, 508, post. 



352 Continental Congress 

I Recieved Your warrant but Mr. Reed could not pay one shiling, was 
under the necessity of bringing som tar, which I find will nett 3/ per 
barrel if I am fortunate in the sale, pitch cost me 16/ per Barrel, and the 
freight 5/, and it goes current here for 11/ all goods. 

The Assembly of New York now siting, has pas'd an Act for emiting 
paper Currency, also an Act to comply with the requisition of Congress 
respecting the impost, but will not suffer Congress to remove the officer 
of the Impost for Maladministration, their remedy in that case, is to 
complain to the Executive who may remove him if they pleas, this mea- 
sure gives umbrage to they Delegates, but it has not com officially before 
Congress Yet, but expect a coppy will be layd before them tomorrow for 
their perusal. 8 

385. The Deputy Secretary of Congress (Roger Alden) to the 
Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

Thursday May 4th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that Friday the 5th Instt. at 12 o'Clock 
AM is appointed for a second visit from the Seneca Chief and his 
associates. 

As he is to receive assurances from the Chairman of Congress of the 
ratification of the treaty of peace between the United States and Great 
Britain, will you give yourself the trouble to order the original treaty to 
be transmitted to the office of the Secy, of Congress. 2 

386. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, 4 May. 1786. 
Sir, 

By the January packet I was honored with your letter of the 23d of 
December, and by Mr. Anstey who arrived in the February packet, I re- 
ceived yours of the 22d of January. 2 1 pray to accept my acknowledgments 
for these kind attentions, and to be assured if any communications in 
my power concerning our common country will afford you any infor- 
mation, the pleasure of transmitting them, will be my best and most satis- 
factory reward. Long before this time, the dispatches from Mr. Jays 
office will have convinced you that Congress entertain the same sentiments, 
which you possess on the subject of an exchange of Ministers between the 

• Cf. nos. 374, 381, 383, ante, 388, 394, 401, 449, post. A letter from Bloodworth 
to Abner Nash May 4, duplicating in almost the same words this letter to the governor 
(excepting the passage that pertains to the governor's instructions), and sent by the same 
bearer, is in the North Carolina Hall of History. Caswell's reply to Bloodworth, June 7, 
is in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 644. 

[385] l Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. 

2 See no. 380, note 3. ante. 
[386] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (copy) ; Life of King, I. 171 (extract). 

2 Adams's letters of Dec. 23, 1785, and Jan. 22, 1786, are in Life of King, I. 117. 
They were in reply to King's letters of Nov. 2, Dec. 4 (nos. 269, 296, ante). Concerning 
Tohn Anstey the British commissioner, see no. 372, ante, and no. 387, post. 



May, 1786 353 

United States and Great Britain ; they will not be inattentive to the dig- 
nity of their country, nor the etiquette of courts. 3 Mr. Temple will be con- 
fined to the authorities of his commission, and will not be permitted to 
travel out of his consulate. The determination is that the court of St.. 
James must send a Minister here of your rank, in consequence of the pro- 
posal for that purpose, or Congress must recal their Minister at 
London. 4 .... 

387. Thomas Rodney, Diary. 1 

Thursday 4th May 1786 — The report respecting the Cession of Conecti- 
cut To the United States (Towit of all that Country to the Westward of 
a line runing parrellel with the Western bounds of Pensylvania, and 
one hundred and Twenty miles distant therefrom). 2 

Mr. Johnson, To shew the right of Connecticut to this Country, gave a 
well digested historical account of the Charters, of N. England, Vir- 
ginia, N. York and Pensylvania, and of the disputes that had arisen about 
them, and the decisions on [of] the King and Concil in Several Instances 
and then made many Judicious observations thereon. 

He said one of three things must be done 

1. Congress must accept the Cession — or 

2. Contest their Claim — or 

3. Admit Connecticut to settle the Lands. 

That the only objection he heard was That Connectciut by agreement 
with N. Y. had fixt their Western boundary. 

That their Title has been Tried in a Court of Law (in the dispute with 
Pensylvania) and the Decision was against them, And That the Territory 
they offer to Cede is already Ceded by N. Y. and Virginia — and these he 
Endeavour'd to answer. 

Mr. Grason of Virginia opposed the Cession and asked the Gentleman 
of Connecticut if he remembered the Canada or Quebeck bill or Act passed 
in 1774. Limitting the Western boundary of all the Colonies. Did Con- 
necticut put in her Claim on that occasion or remonstrate against that 
bill. Did she ever Claim the western Territory before the Revolution. The 
Quebeck Act Took in all that Country, and Virginia had a right to what 
She Conquered with her own arms, and The United States had a right to 
all the rest of that Country by Conquest. 

That the Crown did no more with respect to the Quebeck bill than they 
did in grant of N. Y. and Pensylvania, by Taking away, what had been 

3 The allusion is to a remark in Adams's letter of Jan. 22 : " The act of Congress 
respecting the British Consul General, is wise, and well guarded. Nevertheless I think 
that we should not be so inattentive to Etiquette, as to omit a Proposition for sending 
a Minister Plenipotentiary." See the Journals, Dec. 2, 1785, Jan. 2, 1786, and Jay to Adams 
Jan. 2, in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 502. 

4 See nos. 296, 310, 313, ante. 

[387] 1 Library of Congress, Rodney Papers. 

2 See no. 381, note 2, ante. William Samuel Johnson, whose speech is summarized 
by Rodney, set down in his diary for the day only the brief notation, " at Congress Con't 
cession ". 



354 Continental Congress 

granted before. Therefore the Canada Bill having fixt the right in the 
Crown the Land belongs to the United States by Conquest etc. 

[The passage which follows was evidently inserted by Rodney at some 
later time.] 8 

My persecutors being hard at work agt. me at home my stay was short 
in Congress at this Time. Never the less I advised those who were dis- 
posed that way on a mode of recinding the ordinance respecting the back 
lands and lay them open to sale. Also prevailed on leading Members to 
alter the principle of requisition for Taxes which had occasioned so much 
distress in the Country and as far as possible to Cure the Evils of former 
ones for several years past — both these things were soon after done. 

While at Congriss at this Time I was waited on by all the foreign officers 
and returned their visits. I was frequently waited on by Gardoqui the 
Spanish Ambassador, who seem'd particular in his attention to Me. 

Mr. Pierce and Mr. Burrel Two of our Commissioners for settling 
Accts. and Mr. Anesty * the English Commissioner for settling the Refu- 
gee accts. board in the same House — To wit at the House which was Lord 
Sterlings and was kept by a Mr. McEwing. Major Patten my Collegue, 
and Mr. Pettit Member for Pensylvania borded in the same House, also 
an English Barron and his Lady, she was a fine woman and fond of Oi.it. 
I sat up many Evenings with her and found her Manners and conversation 
very agreable, being able to Converse with [her] about England gave her 
great pleasure but neither she nor any of the English Could bare to con- 
verse much on the loss of America they would some times Even shed 
Tears — but whenever this subject was mentioned I advocated America in 
a manner they could not answer. 

A German Major who Came with the Barron and his lady also boarded 
here, he was Emashiated by the Reumatism, but was a very sprightly 
sensible man, said he had been Injured by Genl. Robinson the Brittish 
Genl. while at N. Y. and swore he would kill him if Ever he got to him. 

Col : Blunt and Col : Hawkins of N. C, Mr. Petit of P. Col. Monroe 
of Virginia, and Doctr. White of N. C. were frequent Companions at this 
time, all Members of Congress but Hawkins But our House was often 
full, we were much visited by Members officers and acquaintances we kept 
a good Table etc. etc. 

388. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, May 5, 1786. 
Sir, 

It has undoubtedly been said in England that the act of Congress of the 
15 of February relative to the federal revenues, is full proof that the 
L'nited States are in the utmost confusion, and that the Union is nenrlv 
dissolved. Ignorant as the people of England still are of the genius and 

• Cf. vol. VI., nos. 68, 197. 
4 John Anstey. See nos. 372, 386, ante. 
[388]' N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers ; Life of King, I. 172. 



May, 1786 355 

temper of the citizens of America, it will not be extraordinary, that such 
opinions should be fondly embraced, when in fact the resolutions to which 
they refer to establish the justice of their conclusions, have produced mea- 
sures the reverse of their expectations, and most salutary in favor of our 
union. If the people are truly informed of their situation, they will even- 
tually accede to such measures as will best secure their freedom and honor. 
Rhode Island which had continued five years in opposition to the system 
of a general impost upon the terms recommended by Congress, passed 
an act agreeing to the system in consequence of the act of Congress of the 
15 of February. Georgia has likewise made the grant, and Maryland has 
acceded. New York has passed an act upon the subject within a few 
days, it has not been before Congress, but if I have heard it truly recited, 
it is imperfect. However as twelve States have made the grant to the ac- 
ceptation of Congress, I think there can be little doubt, but that the next 
assembly of New York will fully accede to the system, and thereby au- 
thorize the commencement of a plan of revenue substantial and productive. 2 
That there exists a criminal neglect of several of the States in their most 
important duties to the confederacy cannot be denied. I hope a reform 
will take place. The people generally through the confederacy, remark 
that we are at a crisis. Our finances are not on that firm basis which the 
riches of our country will authorize without danger to the liberties of our 
citizens. Our commerce is almost ruined, because jealousies of an unwar- 
rantable nature have been disseminated through the more Southern states. 
But there is good reason to expect that our finances, will be strengthened 
and made certain, and a proposition has originated in Virginia, for a con- 
vention of delegates, in September, from the several states to agree on 
such commercial regulations as shall extend the American navigation and 
promote the trade of the Union. The most important states have already 
appointed delegates for this purpose to assemble in Maryland. And if 
anything can be concluded from the general reputation of the delegates 
already appointed, there is reason to hope that wisdom will govern their 
deliberations, and that their result will produce an union of opinions on the 
subject of commercial regulations through all the states. 3 .... 

2 Cf. nos. 374, 381, 383, 384, ante, 394, 401, 449, post. 

3 See particularly Madison to Washington Dec. 9, 1785 (Writings, II. 196), to 
Monroe Dec. 9, Jan. 22, Mar. 19, Apr. 9, May 13 (ibid., pp. 222, 231, 234, 242) ; to Jeffer- 
son Jan. 22, Mar. t8, May 12 (ibid., pp. 218, 224, 236). Respecting the attitude of Mary- 
land, touched upon in Madison's letter to Jefferson May 12 see the article of Bernard C. 
Steiner, in Am. Hist. Rev., V. 22. Cf. nos. 394, 422, 455, 463, 468, post. For the origins 
of the Annapolis convention see Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution. I. 249 et scq. ; 
McLaughlin, The Confederation and the Constitution, ch. XI. Writing to Adams at almost 
the same time (May 4) Jay remarks that one of the first wishes of his heart was "to see 
the people >of America become one nation in every respect ; for, as to the separate legisla- 
tures, I would have them considered, with relation to the Confederacy, in the same light 
in which counties stand to the State of which they are parts, viz., merely as districts to 
facilitate the purposes of domestic order and good government" (Correspondence of Jay, 
III. 194). 



356 Continental Congress 

389. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 6 May 1786. 
Dear Cerry, 

. . . . 2 Although I informed you in my last that Eight States only 
were represented and it was quite uncertain when a greater number would 
be on the Floor, yet the Fact now is, that north Carolina and Delaware 
have come on, and we number Ten states — Two only from New England 
— and a number of visionary projects already introduced and proposed to 
be adopted by Congress. What we shall do, I know not — this is certain 
that I should feel much happier were the new England states all repre- 
sented. 3 .... 

390. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York, 7th May, 1786. 
Sir, 

We do ourselves the honor to transmit herewith a Copy of a Repre- 
sentation from the Board of Treasury of Congress recommending the 
discharge of the additional Commissioner for liquidating and certifying 
the claims of the Citizens of Pennsylvania against the U. S., and for 
settling the accounts between the Union and that State. 

This representation has not yet been acted upon in Congress, but it is 
likely to be, and probably will be taken up and decided in the course of a 
few days. In the Mean time it would be highly pleasing as well as in- 
structing to us to be favored with the sentiments of your Excellency and 
the Council, on this proposition. We are induced to believe that a con- 
siderable proportion of the Claims of the Citizens of Penns'a yet remain 
unliquidated and that from the want of a general knowledge among the 
Citizens of the time limited for presenting their claims, which expired 
the seventeenth of March last, many hundred of those claimants are now 
left remediless by other means than an application at the Treasury office 
in New York; that considerable time must elapse before Mr. Stelle can 
enter upon the settlement of the State account; and that therefore two 
Commissioners may yet continue to be usefully employed in Penn'a for 
some time to come. 2 

[389T X. V. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 174. 

2 In an omitted passage King mentions transmitting translations of the two 
French arrets and comments upon them. See nos. 366, 376, ante. 

8 The record of attendance May 6 (six states and six individual members) docs not 
include William Samuel Johnson; but Johnson records in his diary, "6th Rain at Con- 
gress late". See nos. 380 (note 3), 387 (note 2), ante Under May 1 and 3 Johnson 
records that he was " at Congress '. 

[390] l Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 106 (signed by Charles IVttit, " i<>r the Delegates "). 
8 An additional commissioner each for Pennsylvania and Virginia for the liquida- 
tion of accounts of individuals with the United States was authorized Feb. 23, 1785. See 
also the Journals, Feb. 28. Mar. 17, 1785, Mar. 10, 24, May 8, 1786. On June 2 a motion 
of Virginia and Pennsylvania for reviving and continuing the powers of commiss 
for adjusting the claims of individuals in the different states was referred to the board of 
treasury, who reported June 13 (Journals, pp. 327 n., 339 n.). The report, dated June 12, 
which is adverse to the motion, is in the Journals, June 15. On Aug. 11 the board reported 



May, 1/86 357 

We have also conceived that it would be proper to obtain an Extension 
of time for Claimants to present their applications, in Penn'a for the 
Reasons before suggested. Congress have been moved to grant such 
Extension in New York, but without success. If Council should be of 
opinion that it ought to be done in Penns'a, we hope to be armed with 
their Instructions for that purpose as early as may be. 3 

We also transmit the Report of a Committee on a proposal of the State 
of Connecticut to cede part of the Claim of that state to Lands lying west- 
ward of Penn'a. If the proposal had been to cede the whole of the claim 
of that state to the Western Territory, there would scarcely have been any 
hesitation in accepting it, without enquireing how far the claim was well 
founded. But an apprehension that the acceptance of a part, as such may 
be construed as an admission of their claim to the Residue creates some 
difficulty. The proposed Deed in order to obviate this objection, is worded 
in such manner as not to express any Reservation. The Delegates of 
Connecticut urge warmly for an acceptance of this cession. Cessions 
somewhat similar have been accepted from New York and Massachusetts 
which are pleaded as precedents. They urge as a special motive for our 
agreeing to it that it will induce the state of Connecticut to discountenance 
the further pretensions of the Delaware and Susquehanna Companies to 
lands in Penns'a and tend to detach the Real settlers at Wyoming from 
the more disorderly Partezans of these Companies. 

Permit us also to mention that an advertisement has appeared in the 
Connecticut papers calling a meeting of those Companies on the 17th of 
this month for certain purposes and amongst others to take measures 
for conteracting the machinations of the State of Penns'a. 

Some debate has already passed on this report of the Committee and 
from the warmth with which an early decision is urged for we imagine 
a decision will be obtained in the course of this week, and from present 
appearances it will probably be in favor of the Report. 4 

391. The Secretary of Congress to Azariah Horton. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

May 10th, 1786. 
Sir, 

Your memorial of the 2d Augt. 1785 praying, "that the depreciation 
of your pay including the extra pay might be made up and such order 

that, in its policy of retrenchment, it had ordered John Story, one of the commissioners 
for Pennsylvania, to close his office. 

Congress was at the same time reducing the number of accounting officers for the five 
great departments. See nos. 348, 369, 383 (note 4), ante. Arthur Lee wrote to an unidenti- 
fied correspondent May 10 : " Congress have at length acceded to the reduction of the 
five Departments for settling Accounts, to two Commissioners (Col. Walker and Mr. 
Burrell) instead of five as formerly. This measure we expect will not only diminish the 
expense, but expedite the close of this important business." Va. Hist. Soc., Lee Papers, 

II. 54- 

3 See no. 355, ante. 

4 See nos. 381, 387, ante, 394, 402, 405-407, post. Franklin's reply, May 10, to this 
part of the delegates' letter is in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 759. 

T39I] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 50. 



358 Continental Congress 

taken respecting the land promised to Officers and soldiers of a certain 
description, as may ascertain your title thereto ", has been duly received 
and communicated to Congress — and after due consideration of all cir- 
cumstances, it is become my duty to inform you, that the United States 
in Congress do not deem it expedient to deviate from, or extend the 
operation of the act of the ioth of April 1780, or the Acts of a prior 
date respecting grants of land. 

I am sorry your case does not come within the purview of those Acts 
But as that is the case, I have a firm confidence that the same spirit which 
conducted you in the faithful discharge of your duty while in the public 
service, will support you under the present disappointment. 2 

392. The Secretary of Congress to Richard Claiborne. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
~. May ioth. 1786. 

Your petition of 5th July 1785, stating "that you served as Deputy 
Q't Master from the 12th Sept. 1778 to the 5th of August 1780 — that 
during near two years service, you reed, in value only 332f4 dollars 
— that at the conclusion of your commission you settled your accounts 
and received the balance in nominal money and passed a rect. in full for 
the same, but hope this will not deprive you of the benefit of a settlement 
by the scale of depreciation ; and praying that a resolution may pass to 
authorise the Commissioner who settles the accounts of the Q't Masters 
department, to revise and liquidate your account, and issue a certificate 
for the balance that may be found due" has been duly reed, and com- 
municated to Congress. And due deliberation having been had thereon, 
it is become my duty to inform you, that the inconveniencies which would 
attend the revisal of accounts which have been closed, are too great to be 
hazarded: and as the Act of the ioth April 1780, which first granted 
depreciation, does not comprehend your claim, the prayer of your petition 
cannot be granted. 2 

393. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
1 William Smallwood). 1 

~. New-York May ioth, 1786. 

Conformably to our Engagements W'c herewith transmit You an 
Abstract of the State of the Treasury for the last Month. - 

2 Horton's memorial was read in Congress Aug. 15, 1785, and a report by the 
committee of the week was made Aug. 17. An almost identical report appears under Oi I 
and the endorsement on the first report states that it was on that date referred to the 
secretary of Congress to take order (see the notes at pp. 635 n., 842 n.). Why the secretary 
should have been so long in taking order does not appear. Cf. no. 392, post. 
[392] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 51. 

2 Claiborne's memorial was of the same character as that of Azariah Horton (see 
no. 301, ante), was dealt with by the same committee, and received the same treatment. 
[393] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., box, 1786 (signed by Hindman and Harrison). 

2 Such an abstract is in the Journals under May 8, but it appears to be the abstract 
for May stead of April. See no. 365, note 3, ante. 



May, 1786 359 

There are at present eleven States represented in Congress, one Member 
from New-Hampshire and one from Rhode Island. 

394. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York May n, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last I have reed, yours of nth Deer, and 27th Jany. last. 2 
until lately we have had so thin a Congress that few acts of consequence 
have pass'd, a very pointed recommendation to those States who have 
hitherto declin'd, to accede to the recommend'n of respecting a revenue 
system only excepted; since which R. Island and Georgia have acceded 
to the impost fully, so that it now depends on New York, who has also 
granted it but under restrictions as to the officers to carry it into effect, 
and Pena. and Delaware who have limited the operation of that part wh. 
respects the impost to the adoption of the other or supplementary funds 
by all the States, having adopted both themselves. 3 I am inclined to 
believe this measure will pass the union in the course of the year, so as to 
be carried into operation, we have now II. States present, and a member 
from the other two. it is expected we shall have the 13. shortly. The 
Commiss'rs for treating with the western and southern Indians have con- 
cluded treaties in both instances with the principal tribes and return'd a 
statement lately of their proceedings to Congress. 4 The object for wh. 
these commissions was instituted seems to be now fully obtain'd, and as 
further management of those tribes so as to regulate the trade and keep 
up a good understanding with them, is to be effected by some permanent 
arrangement, I apprehend these commissions will be annull'd and such 
system adopted. The subject is now before a Committee. 5 In my last 
I mention'd to you that the propriety of the acts of Congress founded 
on the condition of the acts of cession from the States, fixing the limits 
of the States westw'd was question'd. A proposition or rather a report 
is before Congress recommending it to Virga. and Mass. to revise their 
acts as to that condition so as to leave it to the U. S. to make what 
division of the same future circumstances may make necessary, subject 
to this proviso, " that the sd. territory be divided into not less than two 
nor more than five states ". the plan of a temporary gov'nt to be instituted 
by Congress and preserv'd over such district untill they shall be admitted 
into Congress is also reported, the outlines are as follows. Congress 
are to appoint as soon as any of the lands be sold a govr., Council, Judges, 

[394] * Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 125; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, I. 502. 

2 Jefferson's letter of Dec. 11 is in the Library of Congress, Monroe Papers ; press 
copies of both are in the Jefferson Papers. In the first he wrote : " how goes on the 
disposition to confer the regulation of our commerce on Congress? on this side the 
Atlantic we are viewed as objects of commerce only, and as little to be relied on even for 
this purpose while it's regulation is so disjointed." 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 15 ; cf. nos. 374, 381, 383, 384, 388, ante, 401, 403, 407, post. 
Concerning the Rhode Island action see Staples, R.. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 552-560. 

4 See the Journals, Apr. 17; also nos. 361, 366, 371, 375, 384, ante. 

8 See no. 373, ante, and nos. 407, 416, post. 



360 Continental Congress 

secretary to the Council, and some other officers; the govr. and Council 
to have certain powers untill they have a certain number of inhabitants, 
at wh. they are to elect representatives to form a genl. assembly to consist 
of the govr. and council and sd house of representatives. It is in effect 
to be a colonial gov'nt similar to that wh. prevailed in these States pre- 
vious to the revolution, with this remarkable and important difference 
that when such districts shall contain the number of the least numerous 
of the " thirteen original States for the time being " they shall be admitted 
into the confederacy. The most important principles of the act at Annapolis 
are you observe preserv'd in this report. It is generally approv'd of, but 
has not yet been taken up. 8 The treaty with Prussia will be shortly 
ratified and forwarded for exchange. 7 Upon the subject of commerce 
I have nothing new to give you. The plan of a convention at Annapolis 
which I believe will be carried into effect has taken the subject from 
before Congress, as it originated with our State we think it our duty 
to promote its object by all the means in our power. 8 of its success I 
must confess I have some hopes, the investigation of the subject will 
always be of advantage since truth and sound state policy in every instance 
will urge the commiss'n of the power to the US. 9 .... 

395. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

My Dear friend, NbW YorK l * Ma * '^. 

You must know the deranged condition of the confederacy. New York- 
has granted the impost to be paid in paper money, and to be collected by 
officers amenable to and removable by themselves, and under Regulations 
formed by their Legislature, this Grant you see is a mere name — the 
consequencis [sic] is, that Congress not having it in their power to pert 
the impost in Operation, no money will come into the federal Treasury. 2 

You may be assured that our Barbary Negotiations will issue in a fruit- 
less attempt for peace instead of 80,000 Dollars; it turns out that 200,000 

8 See the Journals, May 10; also nos. 315, 373, 388, ante, 396, 407, 416-418, 442, 
483, Post. 

7 Jay reported upon the Prussian treaty Mar. 9 (Journals, Mar. 10), proposed a 
form of ratification Mar. 14, and ratification took place May 17. Congress was first in- 
formed Sept. 20 of the signing of the treaty (letter of Jay Sept. 19, transmitting an extract 
from a letter of W. T. Franklin), and, secondly, on Oct. 4 (through a letter of Dr. Frank- 
lin Sept. 19). Apparently it was not until Feb. 9. 1786, that the COfnmiMiooert' lt-tt 
Oct. 2 and 11 (signed on the first date by Adams, on the second by Jefferson), trans- 
mitting the treaty, was laid before Congress (Journals, p. 61 n.). This letter is in Dip!. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 600. See also the commissioners' report of Aug. 14 (ibid., 
p. 507). and Jefferson to Jay Aug. 14 (ibid., p. 627). Franklin's letter of Sept. 19 is ibid., 
P- 398; Jay's report of Mar. 9 is ibid., p. 598. See no. 407, post. 

8 See no. 388, note 3, ante, and nos. 422. 455, 463, 4'>S. post. 

•William Samuel Johnson's diary for the week ending May 13 records that he 
was "at Congress" rvcry day from Monday to Friday, and that on Saturday (13th) he 
was " at Comm'ee ". Under May 10 he adds, " Land Ord'e ", under May 11 " Conn't Ces- 
sion", and under May 12 "Land Ord'e". 

[3951 1 N- Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers; Life of Kitw, I. 135. 

2 Roger Sherman wrote to William Samuel Johnson May 13, " I send this by my 
Son who is going to New York to see about the business of Surveying the Western Ter- 
ritory " (Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 114). Isaac Sherman was chosen as one 
of the surveyors July 18, 1785. See also the Journals, Dec. 27, 1785, Sept. 14. 25, 1786. 



May, 1786 361 

Guineas will be the least sum necessary to accomplish this object in a 
proper mode — will you tell me where the money can be had? Will the 
merchants lend it, or any part of it ? 3 . . . . 

396. Charles Pettit to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York 14th May 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I am now at a loss to answer your other question as to what 
we are doing in Congress. It has been but a short time that we have had 
a Congress adequate to the important Parts of Business and the greater 
part of the time has been spent in forming opinions on various subjects 
without maturing scarcely anything. The subject of Indian affairs and 
western territory are pressing. Some are for adhering to the ordinance of 
last year in the mode of laying out and selling the land. Others think it 
impracticable and wish it to be radically changed. I am inclined to think 
it will end for this year in an adherence to the general principles of the 
Ordinance with some small amendments. 2 .... The charter of the bank 
I consider as fully at an end; the more the subject is discussed, the more 
the idea of a chartered bank and a democratic government seems to be 
reprobated, and I see no prospect of its gaining permanent ground again 
in Pennsylvania 

397. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Franklin. 1 

New York May 15, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Agreeably to my promise I send you herewith enclosed an extract 
from the contract made at Versailles the 21 Feby 1783, in which "to 
prevent all ambiguity it has been found proper to recapitulate the amount 
of the preceding aids granted by the King to the United States and to 
distinguish them according to their different classes ". The first class is 
composed of funds lent successively by his Majesty amounting in the 
whole to 18 mill, livres. The second comprehends the loan of 5 million 
dutch florins made in Holland in 1781. And the third comprehends the 
aids and subsidies furnished under the title of gratuitous assistance from 
the pure generosity of the King " three millions of which " as is there 
expressed " were granted before the treaty of Feby 1778 and six millions 
in 1 78 1, which aids and subsidies amounting in the whole to nine million 
livres tournois his Majesty there confirms in case of need the gratuitous 
gift to the Congress of the said thirteen United States " 

Mr. Grand credits three millions reed, prior to the treaty of Feby 1778 
but he includes therein the million reed, from the farmers general. 

If as you observed all the money granted by the king was paid to Mr. 
Grand it would appear from the enclosed extract compared with Mr. 

3 See nos. 315, 329, 364, 374, 380, 381, 388, ante. See further nos. 453-458, post. 
[396] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 

2 See no. 394, note 6, ante. 
[397] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, II. 



362 Continental Congress 

Grands accot. that the million paid by the farmers genl. was " a gratuitous 
assistance from the pure generosity of the King " and that the farmers 
genl. are endebted to the U S for the amount of the tobacco remitted 
to them. If this is not the case it will be necessary to explain when and 
to whom the third million was paid. 2 

398. Jambs Manning to Hezekiah Smith. 1 

n . New York, 17th. of May 1786. 

Dear Sir. * ■ ' 

. . . , a My situation here is, indeed, very awkward without a Col- 
league, without money, and in doubt what to resolve on. 8 Our public 
Affairs wear a cloudy Aspect. I hope it is that the Interposition of Heaven 
may be seen in extricating us from difficulty. His former unmerited 
favour to this guilty I -and, encourages me to hope for it, though it should 
almost be against hope. 

The Savages have begun their barbarous depredations on our Western 
frontiers, but probably not without Provocation from some of that law- 
less Banditti which forms the Law of those Settlements. It is expected, 
on investigation, this will be found true. Many of the innocent must, 
doubtless, be involved in ruin in consequence of it. The wretched deranged 
State of the finances of the federal Government, will allow us, it disposed, 
to afford these People but feeble aids.* 

- See nos. 579, 580, post. 
[398]' Brown Univ. Lib., Manning Papers; R. A. Guild, Early History of Brown 
i'n hers itv. including the Life, Times, and Correspondence of President Manning, p. 435. 

-' lor some account of the Rev. Hezekiah Smith, to whom this letter is addre- 
see Guild, Early History of Brown University, passim. For an account of Manning's 
election as a delegate in Congress see Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 543-545, and Guild, 
op. cit., pp. 424-435. In a letter to Rev. Caleb Evans, Apr. 7 (Brown Univ. Lib., auto- 
graph copy; printed in Guild, op. cit., p. 430), Manning wrote: "The appropriation of 
the Edifice to public Uses, during the war was productive of great Damage to it 
reparation of which, as well as for the Rents, the Corporation sent me last year to I 
gress, with the State of our Accts. and Claims with sufficient Vouchers, we obtained a 
hearing before a Committee appointed to report on the Subject of the Petition, and ob- 
tained a favourable report, but lost it before Congress, when the Report was acted upon. 
Our late Professor Howel was then a Member, and had great Influence; but as he had 
effectually opposed some continental Measures, he thinks the Question was lost by that 
means, together with the small number of the States on the floor. By the Articles of the 
Confederation he is not again eligible for three years ; nor could we find any man, prob- 
ably, to be chosen, who would deeply interest himself for the College. This induced me, 
at his earnest importunity, together with his giving the greatest encouragement that a 
grant might be obtained, to accept the unanimous appointment of our Legislature at their 
late Session, as their first Delegate in Congress till next November — An appointment, to 
me, most unexpected, as I had considered politics out of my Province, and on that ground 
had declined a former Nomination to that office. The interests of the College lay near my 
heart ; and the necessities of it call aloud for the Exertions, of all its friends. I thought 
proper to give you these hints, least upon hearing of my being in Copgress you might think 
I meant to assume the political Character, than which, in general, nothing is more remote 
from my Intentions, notwithstanding the great Importunity of many of the Legislature to 
continue jn the Office." See also Manning to Rev. John Rippon, Apr. 7 (ibid., p. 427), to 
Dr. William Gordon, Apr. 13 (ibid., p. 434). and to his brother, Jeremiah Manning. 
Apr. 19 (ibid., p. 426). Concerning the petition referred to see nos. 160, 241, ante. It 
Howell's opposition to " some continental measures " contributed to the defeat of the 
petition, it was DO doobt his op p o si tion to the impost measure; but it is quite possible that 
personal antagonisms which he had aroused during his career in Congress were also a 
factor. See these Letters, vols. VI. and VII. 

8 See nos. 400, 40.^, 404, 415, 423, post. 

* See no. 407, post. 



May, 1786 363 

I am treated with respect by Congress and the Heads of departmts, 
and think the present Congress possess great Integrity, and a good share 
of Abilities, but for want of more States on the floor the public, and 
important Business is from day to day neglected. We are, however, in 
daily expectation of a fuller Delegation. If personal matters could be so 
adjusted that I were not disquieted, I should be very happy in my Situation 
here, for I commonly preach once or twice on Lords Days, either in 
Town, Long, or Statten Island, or in the Jerseys. 

399. Stephen Mix Mitchell to Oliver Wolcott, jr. 1 

New York 18th May 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you sometime since in answer to your's, and have made diligent 
Search for a long time for the paper referr'd to in your's, which was 
deliver'd to the Treasury board and by them mislaid, have not as yet 
seen it altho 'tis found, as I expect soon to return to Connecticut, have 
not time and Oppertun'ty to attempt a Relief of your Embarresment. 

The reason of my writing now is, that 'tis probable a Delegate will 
soon come on from Hartford to supply my place. Tis best to make him 
fully acquainted with your Difficulties and the needful Amendments in 
the Directions of the Commissioner. 

No such Letters as you seem to suspect have ever been rece'd from the 
Commissioner by the Board of Treasury or Comptroller. 'Tis my belief 
that the wish of the treasury board as to the Commissioner and the 
Directions, are similar to your's. 2 

We have made an Attempt to reduce the Salary of the Commissioners 
to one thousand Dol'rs and have lowered it to 1250. Also pressed hard 
that their Appointments should be annual, which if we had obtain'd we 
might have gently eased down a Commissioner once a Year. 

Had Congress been accostomed to make the Appointment themselves, 
without the Approbation of the particular states, tis probable it would 
have been effected, but the Danger that much Time would be lost by 
nominating in Congress and sending to the States for their Approbation, 
prevented the Adoption of this salutary measure. 3 

I sent you per Capt. Barnard the journals of Congress, which I trust 
you duly receiv'd. 

With Congratulations upon the Genl. Election, I am with much Esteem 
and respect 

Your very humb'e Serv. 
Stephen Mix Mitchell 

[399] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, "Oliver Woolcut Jur. Esqr. Hartford Free S. M. Mitchell"). 

2 Without Wolcott's letter the purport of these remarks is obscure, but they evi- 
dently appertain to some problem connected with the settlement of accounts. See no. 350, 
ant?. The commissioner of accounts for Connecticut 'was William Thompson. See, for 
instance, the Journals for 1785, July 12 (p. 531 n.), Aug. 25 (pp. 658-660). 

8 See the Journals, May 17 ; cf. no. 390, ante. For each of the days May 15, 16, and 
17 (Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday) William Samuel Johnson sets down in his diary, 

30 



364 Continental Congress 

400. James Manning to Nathan Miller. 1 

New York 19th May 1786. 
Sir, 

I am continually interrogated by Congress when my Colleague is 
likely to be on the floor. I am tired of telling them that I expect him soon. 
Pray have you not obtained the money necessary? If not are you likely 
to obtain it and when? I wish you to inform me by the first opportunity. 
Some great national matters are now before Congress, and are suspended 
for a fuller Representation. Eleven States are now on the Floor. New 
Hampshire and Rhode Island are the only delinquent States. You see that 
what is called the Southern Interest, has greatly the advantage of the 
Eastern, and, in many cases, we have found the want of these two States. 
But I know you are not delinquent of choice. 

If you are doubtful of your being able to come at all, I should wish 
to know it by the first opportunity, that I may make my Arrangements 
accordingly. 2 I perceive that our State have directly violated the Treaty 
with Great Britain in making the Paper Money a tender in all cases of 
debts contracted before its Emission. You may find this in the 4th article 
of that Treaty. We have just received, through Mr. Adams, the British 
Minister's Answer to the demand to deliver up the western Posts ; and he 
assigns as the principal reasons, the Laws made in Several States, whereby 
British Subjects are deprived of their Property, as they cannot recover 
their Bona fide Debts, as stipulated in the Treaty. Congress have now 
referred to a Committee to report the necessity of repealing all these 
Laws, and sending it forward to obtain, as soon as possible, a repeal of all 
such Laws in the respective States. I am sorry that Rhode Island is now 
to be ranked in the Number of the States, which have violated the Treaty 
aforesaid. 8 .... 



401. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York May 21st, 1786. 
Sir, 

The Packet for France in whose bag I put your letters sailed the 14th 
instant since which finding vessels have arrived from England by whom 
Congress have received letters from Mr. Adams, as late as the beginning 
of March. 2 .... 

" at Congress ". Under the 18th he adds " Con't Cess'n " ; under the 10th he adds " Milit'v 
act", probably meaning military accounts (see the Journals). Under May 20 (Saturday) 
he records, " at Comm'ee Piracy ". The committee was doubtless that appointed May 1 
upon the establishment of a court for the trial of piracies and felonies on the high seas. 
(Journals, p. 224 n.). 
[400] l Brown Univ. Lib., Manning Papers; Providence Sunday Journal, Sept. 6, 1925. 

2 See no. 398, ante, and nos. 403, 404, 415, 423, post. 

8 See nos. 402, 406, 407, 408, Post. 
[401] • Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 See no. 402, note 3, post. 



May, 1786 365 

We have eleven States on the floor sincerely wish New Hampshire 
was here for it appears to me New England should never be unrepresented. 

The act of Assembly of New York passed in consequence of the recom- 
mendation of Congress of the 28th. April 1783 is together with all the 
other acts on the same subjects refer'd to a committee whose report will 
be before Congress in a few days at which time I will do myself the 
honor to inform you how far the several States have complied with said 
recommendation. 8 



402. James Monroe to Richard Henry Lee. 1 

New York, May 24th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I have no excuse for having been so indifferent a correspondent, except 
that I had nothing to communicate to you, and I knew that of this you 
were apprised by yr. brother, and Colo. Lee. 2 Lately however we have 
reed, dispatches from Mr. Adams of a very interesting nature, he pre- 
sented some time abt. november last, a memorial to the ministry, requiring 
a delivery of the posts, and compensation for the infraction of the 
treaty respecting the negroes ; to which he reed, for answer, " that it was 
unquestionably true, that by the 7th article the posts sho'd have been 
evacuated; but that by the 4th and 9th it was also stipulated that there 
sho'd be no legal impediment in the way of the recovery of british debts — 
that these articles had been violated by almost every state in the con- 
federacy. Ld. Carmarthen enumerates all the acts of the several states 
wh. militate ag'nst the treaty, with great precision, and finally states that 
it wo'd be folly for one party to carry its engagements into effect while 
the other neglected theirs — that provided the U S. wo'd comply on their 
part, the King wo'd on his ". 3 this I think is the amt. of the dispatch from 
Mr. Adams from wh. the injunction of secrecy is remov'd, so that you 
may be under no restraint in yr. communications on the subject, we shall 
state it to the Executive, for the information of the Legislature. We 
have lately been much perplex'd by a proposition from Connecticut, for 
ceding her claims to territory westward 120 miles of the Pena. line, by 
wh. she retains a right by implication, to 120 miles, we have been inform'd 
that she and Pena. are on the point of variance with respect to wiomin, 

3 See the Journals, May 12, June 16, July 27, Aug. 9, Oct. 16 ; also nos. 410, 449, 
post ; cf. nos. 374, 381. 383, 384, 388, 394, ante. 

[402] 1 Am. Phil. Soc., Lee Papers, II. 315; Writings, I. 129; Life of R. H. Lee, II. 224. 

2 The printed text has your brother, Colonel Lee , but the manuscript has an 
ampersand between " brother " and " Colonel ", and the reference is of course to Arthur 
Lee, member of the board of treasury, and Henry Lee, the delegate. 

3 Adams's memorial here referred to is dated Nov. 30 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783- 
1789, II. 542) and was presented to Lord Carmarthen Dec. 8 (Adams to Jay Dec. 9, ibid., 
p. 543). Carmarthen replied Feb. 28, 1786, transmitting a " State of the Grievances com- 
plained of by Merchants and other British Subjects ", and Adams transmitted the reply 
to Congress Mar. 4 (ibid., pp. 580-591). Jay's report on the subject, Oct. 13, is ibid., 
pp. 591-648. See also Adams to Jay Jan. 4 (ibid., p. 558), Jay to Adams, May 4, June 6 
(ibid., pp. 562, 657), and Jay's reports of Mar. 30 and May 8 (ibid., pp. 559, 557). The 
report of Mar. 30 is also in the Journals, Mar. 31, those of May 8 and Oct. 13 under their 
dates. See further ibid.. Mar. 21, 1787, and nos. 406, 407, 420, 440, post. 






366 Continental Congress 

and that this land is necessary to satisfy the Susquehannah and Delaware 
companies of Connecticut, who create this mischief, whereby peace will 
be restor'd to the union. We are also assur'd that unless we accept this 
cession, Connecticut will open an office for the whole degree claim'd by 
her to the Mississippi, for sale, a proposition has been made reserving to 
the U S. whatever they have acquir'd under the cession of Virga. and 
negativ'd; and one confirming the decree of Trenton, or rather requiring 
that Connecticut sho'd cede her claim to Pena. as therein decreed, met with 
the same fate ; the latter as connected with the former, wh. being negatived, 
gave a more pointed implication in favor of Connecticut — there it now 
stands, today it will be taken up again, and I suppose it will be pass'd. 4 
When shall we have the pleasure of seeing you here; you have in a very 
high degree the friendship and good wishes of our family — Miss Kort- 
right and Mrs. Monroe desire to be most respectfully remember'd to 
you. I shall always be happy to hear from you, and am sincerely yr. 
friend and servant 

J as. Monroe. 

403. James Manning to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(John Collins). 1 

<-.. New York 26 May 1786. 

Agreeably to the directions of the General Assembly at their Session 
at Greenwich I proceeded to New York and took my seat in Congress, as 
a Delegate, the 2d of this Inst., in full expectation that General Miller 
would follow me in a few Days, with the necessary supply of money, to 
support us; but to my surprise I have not heard from the General since 
my departure from Rhode Island. Destitute of money to defray my 
necessary Expences, and at a loss to conjecture the reasons of the General's 
delay, you must naturally conclude my situation is far from being agree- 
able. I wish to be informed whether the State mean to support a Repre- 
sentation in Congress or not, that I may act accordingly. My private 
purse will not support me here, and you Sir, know the Expence attending 
this Character too well to be informed that money in hand is neces 
for the support of your Delegation. 2 

Congress are highly displeased with the conduct of Rhode Island in 
not sending forward her Delegates. I have made the best apology I could 
for this neglect, but am obliged now to be silent, as I have no advice on 
the subject. I think it my duty to inform you that this honourable b 
is not a little alarmed at the present Crisis ; with an empty Treasury, while 
pressed on all sides for money. The Requisitions not complied with in 
many of the States; the Collection of Taxes postponed; Our trade em- 
barrass'd all most prostrate; the Barbary Powers fitting out more for- 
iiii<l|a]ble armaments than ever sailed out of the Streights. G Britain, 
through our Minister, has absolutely refused the Surrender of the western 

* See the Journals, May 22-26; also nos. 381, 387, ante, 405- . tajf. 

[403] l K. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 39; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 545 ; R. I. Recs., X. 200 ; Guild, Early History of Broivn University, p. 437. 
2 See no. 398, ante, and nos. 404, 415, 423, post. 



May, 1786 367 

Posts, until the United States comply, on their part, with the 4th Article 
of the Treaty, which provides that British Merchants shall be under no 
legal incapacity of recovering, in sterling money, their bona fide debts 
from the Citizens of the United States. 3 Against which Article (since 
the passing the money bill in our State) Nine States in the Confederacy 
have passed Acts; and several of the Indian tribes, as we learn from 
recent dispatches, have already commenced Hosti[li]ties on our western 
frontier. This is our deplorable Situation, and Congress obliged this day 
to adjourn for want of a sufficient Number of States to proceed in the 
necessary and most important business of the Confederacy. In a word, 
Sir, all the old members here look serious, and are alarmed for the safety 
of the Confederacy. A motion is made, and it is proposed to assign a 
day to go into the State of the Nation, in a Committee of the whole house, 
that we may send forward to the States, without loss of time, the danger- 
ous Situation of the federal government, that they may acquit themselves 
of censure, should disastrous events happen through the neglect of the 
States. This motion has only been postponed for a fuller Representation, 
as they were in daily expectation of having both Rhode Island and 
Hampshire on the floor.* I assure you, sir, that the above is not an 
exagerated Account, but done in the words of truth and soberness. 

We have lately been employed in reducing the expence of the civil list, 
which we have done upwards of ten Thousand Dollars ; nor do we mean 
to stop here, but embrace every opportunity to retrench, as much as pos- 
sible, the Expences of the federal Government. 5 I have the pleasure to 
inform you that I think the present Delegation in Congress, Rhode 
Island apart, possess great Patriotism, Ability and unanimity. But the 
want of energy in the federal, and the respective Governments of the 
States, is by every true friend of this Country to be lamented. 

404. Nathan Miller to James Manning. 1 

<-,. Warren May 27th, 1786. 

I have yours of the 19th Inst, now before me, in Answer to which I have 
not received any money or do I Expect to receive any more than the 
Hundred dollars which I mentioned to you before you went forward. I 
weighted on the Assembly and Let them know that I Could not go forward 
without haveing the Cash advanced and Told them you was gone for- 
ward without any money with Expectation of my receiving the Necessary 
and following : and likewise at the same time informed them that I should 
not attend Congress and sacrifice my time and spend my money and re- 
turn and receive their Pay in a depritiated Paper Currency. 2 

3 See no. 402, ante, and no. 405, post ; also the report of the secretary for foreign 
affairs May II. 

4 The allusion is doubtless to Pinckney's motion of May 3. See no. 383, note 2, 
ante, and nos. 407, 434, post. 

5 A committee on the subject of reducing the civil list was appointed Apr. II, 1785, 
was renewed July 20, and again Mar. 16, 1786, July 19, Sept. 18, and Feb. 12, 1787. 

[404] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (endorsed by Miller, "Copy of Letter to 
J. Manning in Congress New York"). 

2 See nos. 400, 403, ante, 415, 423, post. 



368 Continental Congress 

I think i find a Disposition in many of our new faces in the Legisla- 
ture to not send any Members to Congress, but they are small men. 
they Have Heads and so has board Nailes. I want much to be with you 
and if I can muster one Hundred dollars more to put with what is all 
ready in Bank I will Come on so as to be on the flore of Congress time 
Enough to Write the Assembly at theire sessions in June the fourth mondy ; 
that we shall returne as soon as the Money is gone, 

We are Signing the new Emission of Paper and intend it shall Pay 
all Past Present and to Come Both furren and Domestick, what will be 
the End god Only knows, I Expect Serious Consequences. 

am most respectfully your Very Humb'e Servt. 

Nathan Miller 

405. Charles Pettit to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York 27th May 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favour of the 21st now claims my Acknowledgment. Yesterday 
Congress agreed to accept a Cession [from] the State of Connecticut of 
her Right, Claim etc. to Western [territory, lying westward of a Line 
drawn from lat: 41 to lat: 42 2", 120 Miles westward of and parrallel 
to the Western boundary of Pennsylvania, whenever the Delegates of 
Connecticut, duly authorized, shall execute a Deed of Cession for the 
same. This Subject has undergone much Discussion, and has taken up 
more Time in various Manoeuvres than I thought it merited; but the 
various Interests and Views of Parties whetted the Jealousy of each other 
in a high Degree and called forth great Exertions in various Modes of 
Attack and Defence. I was the less exercised on this Occasion, because I 
felt the State of Pennsa. perfectly secured by the Decree of the foederal 
Court against all State Claims on the Part of Connecticut. Some of my 
Colleagues, however, wanted an express Reservation which should cover 
our State from future Molestation, on a supposition that the implied 
Reservation of Connecticut, might weaken our present Security under the 
Decree of the Court. It was thought by others that such a Reservation in 
behalf of Pennsa. would imply [a] Right in Connecticut to the 120 Miles 
not ceded, which Right they ( [the] circumscribed States) [w]ould not will- 
ingly acknowledge. The States who have made Cessions, tho' they disavow 
any Intention to claim by Implication, any strengthening of their Claim 
to Lands not by them ceded, yet are very careful to avoid relinquishing 
the strength that pretence may hereafter give them. From Considera- 
tions of these Kinds you will perceive three or four diffefrent] Interests 
which in their Nature are opposed to each o[ther.] The Delegations of 
Pennsylvania and of your State per[ceiving] this Dilemma, and desil 
of promoting Peace and Har[mony] in the Union, and in order to ob- 
tain a good Understanding betw[een] the two States, agreed to meet 
each other on the ground of reciprocal Confidence and Generosity. It is 
understood that the State of Connecticut will on her part give no farther 

[405 1 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 



May, 1786 369 

Countenance to the Claims of the State or of her Companies within 
Penn[sa.] but on the Contrary use Means to induce these Companies to 
relinquish their Pretensions to such Claims. That Penn[sa.] will take the 
Actual Settlers on the late disputed Territory under protection as Citi- 
zens and treat them with Generosity as well as Justice as to their private 
Rights. That the implied Right of Connecticut to the 120 Miles not ceded 
will not be questioned by Pennsa. and that Connecticut may find Means 
from that Source to quiet her Companies with respect to Western Lands. 
These Objects were not unperceived by Congress and their Desire of pro- 
moting Peace and Harmony induced them to acquiesce in the Views of 
the two States under an Expectation, as I conceive, tha[t] Connecticut, 
paying the Proportion of Expence in purchasing] it from the Indians and 
avoiding any Claim of State Jurisdiction] will enjoy and dispose of the 
soil within the 120 Miles. But these Things being understood rather than 
expressed, may be differently conceived of by different Minds, and there- 
fore I cannot pretend to say what Interpretations may hereafter be given on 
this Subject. In Compromises of this kind it is [fo]und dangerous to go 
too minutely into Explanations. The [cir]cumscribed States do not like 
the Result we have come [t]o, and will keep up their Claim to a Share 
of all the Lands which they suppose remainded in the Disposal of the 
Crown immediatly before the Revolution, especially that Part wch was 
severed from the old Colonies by the Description of the Province of Que- 
bec. But the States which have made Cessions and those which expect 
to make them will, I imagine, acquiesce in the Ideas I have stated if Pru- 
dence be used in pursuing them, and Pennsylvania I am persuaded will 
observe and act upon a liberal Construction of these conciliatory Views. 

You will consider this Letter as purely Confidential. I mean not to 
debar you from making any proper use of the Sentiments it contains ; nor 
from drawing and even communicating such Inferences as you may think 
fairly deducible from what I have said ; but it is intended as a confidential 
Key to open a view to your own Mind of a complex Business in the Light 
in which I view it. Others may view it in a different Light and of course 
may describe it differently. Such Descriptions contrasted may bring on 
unprofitable Discussions, and occasion the Revival of Disputes which ought 
never again to be unveiled. Besides I write on this Occasion with too much 
Haste and Freedom for the Inspection of any Eye but that of a Confidential 
Friend. 2 

The Information from your transatlantic Correspondent] deserves at- 
tention, and it appears to me to depend [entirely] on ourselves whether 
his Apprehensions will be verif[ied or] not. Our political Situation, 
merely from want of [arrangement and Combination of our Strength, is 
indeed wretched — Our Funds exhausted, our Credit lost, our Confidence 

2 Cf. nos. 381, 387, 402, ante, 406, 407 425, 427, post. The significant entries in 
William Samuel Johnson's diary for the week ending May 27 are : " 22d at Con- 
gress Con't Cession . . . . ; 23d No Congress . . . . ; 24th at Congress 

Con't Cession . . . . ; 25th at Congress Do ; 26th at Congress Do. 

end'd . . . . ; 27th No. Congress " From Sunday, the 28th, when he notes, 

" Violent Storm St. Pauls ", Johnson was absent until June 9. 



370 Continental Congress 

in each other and in the federal Government destroyed. Resolutions un- 
executed ; Requisitions but partially complied with in the best of the States, 
in others not at all: Recommenda[tions] as little regarded as the cries of 
an Oysterman. The States separately pursuing their own whimsical 
Schemes of dangerous Experiment, regardless of federal System, and 
destroying their own Strength by intoxicating Draughts of Liberty run 
mad. By attempting to conceal our Imperfections from others, we have but 
deceived ourselves and increased our own Maladies. Instead of supporting 
the respectable Rank which we assumed among Nations, we have exposed 
our Follies to their View — they treat us accordingly, they severally shut 
the Door of commercial Hospitality against us, while ours being open 
they enter and partake with us at their Pleasure. 8 The Mischievou[s] Con- 
sequences of our Folly are now pressing upon us, [they] are felt every 
where, but the Cause is duly perceived as yet by a comparative few only ; 

June 3d.* it must pervade and alarm the great Body of the People in every 
State before they will be in earnest to take the proper Measures to Secure 
their own Strength and Safety. At present even those who are selected 
for the public Service and to whom the political Interests of the Country 
are confided, are not sufficiently awakened to keep a competent Number 
of States represented in Congress. Many Gentlemen really and some 
affectedly accept appointments to this Assembly reluctantly, and it seems 
to be fashionable to make public Duty yield to private Convenience even 
on Occasions comparatively trivial. Monthly Returns are made to the 
Executives of the States of their several Representations in Congress 
daily for the preceeding Month ; by these Returns you may see how faulty 
your State has been in this Respect. I do not suggest this as blaming the 
two Gentlemen who have occasionally attended, but will find that you have 
had at no Time more than two either in this year or the last, and these 
two in each Year never relieved, tho' I presume you have constantly had 
a greater Number in your Delegation. If a State so respectable in point of 
Information and Capacity, and so conveniently situated is thus Negligent 
in federal Affairs, what can we expect of some others? Seven Months of 
this present federal Year have passed away without the attendance of Nine 
States (a bare Quorum for most purposes) for any one Fortnight at a 
Time. The few who attend constantly, become wearied and soured, and 
find themselves unable to pursue any Plan with Effect, bec[ause] negligent 
and desponding. The Comers and Goers who som[etimes] raise us to 
9, 10 or even 1 1 States (which we had for a few [days] ) do not continue 
long enough to get the Information necessary to form a competent Judg- 
ment of the Business before them, and hence the most important Matters 
must remain in Suspence, or be decided upon at Hazard on partial Infor- 
mation. Is it possible that a great political System, however wise[ly] 
formed, can be preserved and well conducted in this Manner [ ?] And yet 
we seem to be as supinely inattentive to our own Dangerous Situation as 

8 Cf. no. 379, ante. 

4 This date is written at the top of the page, the first words on which are " as 
yet ", etc. See the last paragraph of the letter. 



May, 1786 371 

a flock of Sheep in their way to a Slaughter Pen. This is not an exag- 
gerated Description of our internal Disorder, which is hastening our Politi- 
cal Existence to destruction, like a spreading Mortification under the lulling 
Influence of an Opiate. 

Foreigners perceive our lethargic Imbecility — That Respect which they 
were disposed to shew us is held in Suspence. The Barbary Powers, as if 
by Way of Derision, are set on to insult us. Our late Enemies seeking a 
Rupture with us by withholding Military Posts within our Territories 
are teaching the Savages to despise and insult us. They openly charge us 
with a Breach of the Treaty by obstructing the Recovery of british Debts 
by Legislative Acts in some of the States ; in this, however, there is some 
Truth, tho' less than [the]y pretend; but I should suppose that their 
refusal to [pa]y for the Negroes they purloined and which they acknowl- 
edge [t]o be a failure on their Part, might have been a balance for this 
breach of ours, as it was in some Measure the Occasion or at least the 
Pretence for it. 

Such Disorders both within and without cannot fail to bring on a Crisis 
of some kind ere long — What will be the Result, or what Turn it will take, 
is uncertain. However we may dread the Event, it seems to be the only 
chance we have of restoration to political health, and therefore a Convul- 
sion of some kind seems to be desirable. 

When I had finished the first Sheet I was necessarily taken off, intend- 
ing to finish and put my Letter in the Post Office the next Morning, but 
a scouring of the cholera morbus kind incapacitated me for some Days 
and my Nerves are yet unrestored to their proper Tone. 

406. William Grayson to George Washington. 1 

New York May 27th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I should have done myself the honor of writing to you sooner, if any 
thing had occurred at this place worth communicating. There has been a 
great dearth of foreign news, and till within a short time the representa- 
tion has been so thin as to render it impracticable for Congress to under- 
take any matter of importance, although there are many which require their 
serious attention. Of late there has been a tolerably full representation; 
but the time of Congress has been chiefly taken up with an investigation 
of the Connecticut cession of Western territory. 

That State some time ago offered to cede all her claim to Western terri- 
tory within the following limits Beg'g 120 Miles Westw'd of the Pensyl- 
vany line at the beginning of the 42nd degree, extend'g No. as far as two 
minutes of the 43rd West to the Mississippi, the meanders thereof the 
same breadth; East to the beginning, reserving out of this cession the 
120 M's between the ceded lands and the Pensylvany line, with the juris- 
diction of the same, this cession was at first much opposed but Congress 
have at length agreed to accept it whenever the delegates of that State 

[406] x Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 132. 



372 Continental Congress 

shall be authorized to make a proper deed; The consequence of which is; 
I apprehend a clear loss of about six million of acres to the United States 
and which had been already ceded by Virginia and N. York: for the 
Assembly of Connecticut now sitting will unquestionably open a land 
office, and the federal constitution has not given a Court in this instance. 
The advocat[es] for this measure, urged in favor of its adoption that the 
claim of a powerful State although unsupported by right, was under 
present circumstances a disagreeable thing ; and that sacrifices ought to be 
made for the public tranquillity as well as to acquire an undisputable title 
to the residue ; that Connecticut would settle it immediately, with emigrants 
well disposed to the Union, who would form a barrier not only against the 
British but the Indian tribes upon the Wabash and lake Michigan ; That 
the thick settlement they would immediately form, would enhance the 
value of the adjacent country and facilitate emigrations thereto. 2 .... 
Mr. Adams has informed Congress by letters lately received, that 
he has made a demand of the posts, and has been refused ; the Marquis of 
Caermarthen has given, as a reason for the refusal that many of the States 
in the Union have violated the treaty with respect to the debts ; that the 
King of G. B. will comply with his engagements when the States shall 
shew a disposition to perform their part of the contract respecting this 
matter; the States not included in the accusation are N. Hamshire, R. 
Island, Connecticut, N. Jersey and Delawar. I beg leave to inform you 
confidentially that there does not appear at present the most distant pros- 
pect of forming a treaty either with Spain or G. Brittain ; That the treaty 
with Portugal is in a proper train ; that peace can be procured with Tripoli 
and Tunis on reasonable terms, i.e. for 33,000 Guineas each, and probably 
with Morocco and Algiers for double that sum respectively if money can 
be loaned in Holland for that purpose. The late treaty with Algiers cost 
Spain one million three hundred thousand dollars. 8 .... 

407. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 
Dear Sir, 

Your letter has come safely to hand ; and I should have wrote to you 
sooner but could not find anything to communicate worth you[r] accep- 
tance, till lately Congress has been perfectly inactive: for about a fort- 
night past we have had a tolerably full representation ; however Delaware 
has grown uneasy and left us, and Connecticut having prevailed on Con- 
gress to accept her cession moves off to morrow. It is a practice with many 
States in the I nion to come forward and be very assiduous till they have 
carried some State jobb and then decamp with precipitation leaving the 
public business to shift for itself. 

The delegation of our State was very much embarrassed with the Con- 

2 Sec nos. 381, 387, 402, 405, ante, 407, 425, 427, post. See Washington's remarks 
in his reply to Grayson July 26 {Writings, ed. Sparks. IX. 178; ed. Ford, XI. 44 n.). The 
omitted passage is nearly the same as that in the letter to Madison May 28 (no. 407, / 
beginning, " Some alterations ". 
8 Cf. no. 402, note 3, ante. 
[407] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
I. 504; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 16 (extracts). 



May, 1786 373 

necticut business, as it was said it was but neighbor's fare that Connecti- 
cut should be treated, as we had been before with respect to our cession ; 
and that cessions of claims conveyed no right by implication to the terri- 
tory not ceded. We however after some consideration took a hostile posi- 
tion toward her and voted against the acceptance in every stage of it: 
it appeared to the delegation that the only proper claim was already vested 
in Congress by the cession of our State and that their cession was nothing 
but a State juggle contrived by old Roger Sherman to get a side wind con- 
firmation to a thing they had no right to. Some of the States particularly 
Pensylvany, voted for them on the same principle that the powers of 
Europe give money to the Algerines. The advocates for the acceptance 
have however some plausible reasons for their opinion such as the tran- 
quillity, of the Union: the procuring a clear title to the residue of the 
Continental lands : the forming a barrier agt. the Brittish as well as the 
Indians : the appreciating the value of the adjacent territory and facilitat- 
ing the settlement thereof. 2 The Assembly of Connecticut now sitting 
mean immed'y to open a land Office for the 120 ms. Westw'd of the Pen- 
sylvany line which they have reserved : and I don't see what is to prevent 
them from keeping it always, as the foederal constitution does not give a 
Court in this instance, and a war with them would cost more than the six 

million of acres is worth 3 The treaty w'th the King of Prussia 

has been confirmed in Congress, it is in my opinion as far as it respects 
commercial objects, of no great importance. 4 Mr. Monroe I know has 
informed you that a day is assigned for Congress to go into a Comm'ee 
of the whole on the State of the Nation; also for what purposes this is 
intended 5 I am apprehensive this will produce nothing and that Congress 
will never be able to agree on the proper amendments even among them- 
selves, the Eastern people mean nothing more than to carry the com- 
mercial point. There they intend to stop and would not agree if it rested 
with them that Congress should have the power of preventing the States 
from cheating one another as well as their own citizens by means of paper 
money. 

2 Cj. nos. 381, 387, 405, 406, ante, 425, 427, post. Madison remarked in the Fed- 
eral Convention (June 19, 1787) : *' Have we not seen the public land dealt out to Con't to 
bribe her acquiescence in the decree constitutionally awarded agst. her claim on the ter- 
ritory of Pena. ? for no other possible motive can account for the policy of Cong's in that 
measure?" (Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, I. 316; cj. Yates's notes of 
Madison's remarks, ibid., p. 326). Commenting upon Madison's statement Mr. George C. 
Groce, jr., the biographer of William Samuel Johnson, remarks in a letter to this editor, 
" There is no recorded rebuttal by either Ellsworth or Johnson, both of whom were per- 
fectly well posted about whatever ' deal ' existed, and both of whom were members of the 
Convention". See also nos. 405, 406 (note 2), ante. For a summary account of the Con- 
necticut cession see Treat, National Land System, pp. 319-325. 

3 Grayson next discusses the recent communication from Adams relative to the 
British negotiations. See nos. 402, 406, ante. A letter from the Pennsylvania delegates to 
President Franklin May 31, transmitting ("By the permission of Congress") Adams's 
letter of Mar. 4 and its enclosures, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 768. The enclosures are 
ibid., pp. 745-748. Blount transmitted the correspondence to Governor Caswell June 15 
(N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 653). The enclosures are ibid., pp. 549 (Carmarthen's letter 
of Feb. 28), 560-566 (Adams's letter of Mar. 4 and the " State of Grievances "). See further 
nos. 420, 440 (note 2), post. 

4 See the Journals, May 17 ; cf. no. 394, note 7, ante. 

5 See nos. 383, 403, ante, the Journals, June 26, and no. 434, post. 



374 Continental Congress 

Mr. Pinkney who brought forward the motion, will be astounded when 
he meets with a proposition to prevent the States from importing any 
more of the seed of Cain : X York and Pensylvany will feel themselves 
indisposed when they hear it proposed that it shall become a national com- 
pact that the sessions shall always be held in the centre of the Empire; 
how will Delaware R. Island Jersey and some others like to vote (with 
respect to any new powers granted to Congress) according to their real 
and not their supposed importance in the Union? I am of opinion our 
affairs are not arrived at such a crisis as to ensure success to a reforma- 
tion on proper principles ; a partial reformation will be fatal ; things had 
better remain as they are than not to probe them to the bottom, if particu- 
lar States gain their own particular objects, it will place other grievances 
perhaps of equal importance at a greater distance, if all are brought for- 
ward at the same time one object will facilitate the passage of another. 
and by a general compromise perhaps a good government may be pro- 
cured. Under these impressions I cannot say I think it will be for the 
advantage of the Union that the Convention at Annapolis produce any 
thing decisive : as in this event nothing more is to be expected from Massa- 
chusetts etc. etc. etc. The State of Virginia having gone thus far. it is 
matter of great doubt with me whether she had not better go farther and 
propose to the other States to augment the powers of the delegates so as 
to comprehend all the grievances of the Union, and to combine the com- 
mercial arrangements with them, and make them dependant on each other ; 
in this case her own objects ought not to be pretermitted ; among which a 
proper and liberal mode of settling the public accounts ought not to be 
forgotten. 

Some alterations have lately been made in the land Ordinance : the Sur- 
veyors are liberated from all kind of connection with the stars, and are 
now allowed to survey by the magnetic meridian, and are limited to the 
territory lying southward of the East and West line as described in the snid 
Ordinance; The navigable waters and the carrying places between them 
are made common highways forever and free to the citizens of the Atlan- 
tic States as well as those of the new States without any tax or impost 
whatever; An attempt was made to change the system altogether and wafl 
negatived ; indeed the Eastern and some other States are so much attached 
to it that I am satisfied no material alteration can be effected ; the Geogra- 
pher and Surveyors will set out it is supposed immediately to carry the 
Ordinance into execution, provided the Indians will permit them, of which 
however I have very great doubts." I beg leave to inform you confiden- 
tially, that there does not appear at present the most distant prospect of 
forming treaties with Spain or G. Hrittain: That the treaty with Por- 
tugal now carrying on in London is in an apparently proper train, that 
peace can certainly be obtained from Tripoli and Tunis for 33,000 Guineas 
each, and probably from Morocco and Algiers for double that sum respec- 
tively, provided money can be loaned in Holland for that purpose, and 
(which being the only resource) will be attempted 

• See the Journals. May 3. 9, 12, 22, June 1, and no. 406, note 2, ante. 



May, 1/86 375 

The delegation have lately recieved a letter from the Governor stating 
the depredations and murders of the Wabash Indians on the Kentucki 
settlements ; these Indians refused to come to the treaty last year i. e. they 
gave no answer and are now at war with the Citizens of the United States ; 
they have therefore left no alternative to them but hostilities; the dele- 
gation intend to move tomorrow that Colo. Harmar with 400 Continental 
troops and such a number of Kentucki Militia as may be necessary, march 
to their towns and destroy them if they do not make concessions and 
deliver hostages as security for their good behavior in future. They will 
also press for the arrangement of a standing Indian department. In all 
this however they expect opposition, from the circumscribed States who 
being themselves in no danger, will reluctantly yield assistance to those 
who are exposed. 7 .... 

New York May 28th, 1786. 

408. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York May 31, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last a letter has been reed, from Mr. [Jay] to the following 
effect " that difficulties [had taken place] in his [negotiation with Gar- 
doqui] and requesting that a committee be appointed with [power] to 
direct [and controul the said negotiation.] " 2 It was immediately per- 
ceiv'd that the object [was] to relieve him from the [instruction] respect- 
ing the [Mississippi] and to get a committee to cover the measure. That 
this wo'd be thus brought forward I was appriz'd upon my first arrival 
here in the winter and have been acquainted with all the previous arrange- 
ments, which those in fav'r of it found necessary to make, to prepare for 
its reception, his plan is, from evidence conclusive in my own mind, not 
to be simply quiet as to that object but to enter into engagements, at least 
for a certain term, for its [occlusion], and further to enter into a recip- 
rocal [guaranty] of their respective possessions [in America] ; in consid- 
eration for which we are to be admitted reciprocally, they into our ports 

7 Governor Henry's letter to the delegates, May 16, is in Henry, Patrick Henry, 
III. 350 ; his letter to Congress, the same date, is ibid., p. 353 ; and the delegates' reply, 
June 8, is ibid., p. 357, and no. 417, post. Henry's letter to Congress was read May 26, 
assigned May 30 to a committee, who reported June 6. For the report and the action 
upon it see the Journals, June 29, 30. Meanwhile, on June 22, following a motion of 
Grayson June 15 and a report thereon by the secretary at war June 21, Congress 
ordered two companies of troops dispatched to the rapids of the Ohio. See nos. 416-418, 
424, 434, 435, 439, 442, post. 

[408] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 131. 

2 Several passages in this letter are partly written in cipher (such words are 
here enclosed in square brackets), in the translation of which the printed text reveals 
some errors, one such in this passage. Instead of the phrase " with power " the printed 
text has " without instructions ", which gives a precisely contrary meaning to Jay's re- 
quest. In his letter to Congress May 29 Jay suggests the appointment of a committee 
" with power to instruct and direct me on every point and subject relative to the proposed 
treaty with Spain" (Journals, May 31, and Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 202). 
See Gardoqui's letter to Jay May 25 (ibid., p. 199), and cf. nos. 425, 470, 477, post. For 
other instances of erroneous rendering of ciphers see notes 4 and 6, below. 



376 Continental Congress 

here and we into theirs in Europe, upon an equal footing with our citizens 
and subjects respectively, what we are to gain on our part then simply 
is, the aid of this power in favor of the ports and this commercial stipula- 
tion, when the letter was presented Mr. [King] who is associated in this 
business in a long speech in which he took a view of the insidious designs 
of [France in] the late [treaty] especially, and of the little dependence 
to be put on her in future, made a tryal of the pulse of the house on 
the subject. The letter was committed [Pettit, 3 King] and [myself are] of 
the committee as yet the committee have not met, tomorrow they will. 
[Jay] will attend it. From the best investigation that I have been able 
to give the subject I am of opinion that it will be for the benefit of the 
U S. that the [river] sho'd be [opend], that although we may not be in a 
situation nor even think of it for the present, to contest it, yet if we enter'd 
into engagements to the contrary, we separate those people I mean all 
those [westward] of the [mountains] from the federal [Government ] 
and perhaps throw them into the hands eventually of a foreign power — 
that under the direction of Congress the produce of that country will be 
in trade the source of great national wealth and strength to the U S. That 
a reciprocal [guaranty] stipulates an important consideration to them 
without a return. That whether it may not tend to weaken the connection 
between us and [France] is doubtful. That the commerc'l engagements 
will operate upon its own merits only to the disadvantage of the U. S. I 
remember upon a former occasion, unconnected with objects and consid- 
erations of this kind to have remark'd to you — after the publick debt is 
pd. (and if the western land is properly dispos'd of, great part of it will 
be pd. shortly) the situation of these States will be such as to make it 
unnecessary for them to lay such duties on the trade of their citizens as 
the expensive civil and military establishments of the European countries 
will require. The duties of our citizens and their subjects in our respec- 
tive ports will of course be unequal, ours depress'd with the weight of their 
govt, and theirs entitled to all the benefits which arise from our ease and 
happy situation. If we knew precisely the duties impos'd on our trade by 
our citizens in their ports we might put their subjects on equal footing 
here. The indulgence then given to our people in our ports arising from 
the ease of our circumstances, superior to that wh. the subjects of other 
countries can possibly obtain, wo'd be a manifest advantage which might 
enable them to improve their circumstances. [Tobacco] ' I am also in- 
formed, is to be excluded from the benefit (if it can be term'd such) of 
this treaty. I am clearly of opinion that [Spain] is of all the powers of 
[Europe] the most in our hands. That for a guaranty we might obtain 
not only the points in contest but whatever else we wish'd, but such is 
the folly of our councils and the [vice] of those who govern them in 
many instances, that the real blessings of our situation in those few ca 

8 The cipher used is that for " Pit ", hut Pettit is of course meant. As named in 
the Journals (May 31), the committee was King, Pettit, and Monroe. See nos. 41.? 
437. 443. 447. 463-482, post. ' 

4 The printed text has here Great Britain , but the cipher used spells tobo , 
an abbreviation for tobacco. See note 6. below. 



May, 1786 377 

which exist, cannot be turn'd to any publick advantage. [Pettit] who is 
always here and the influencial man from [Pennsylvania] is a speculator 
in certificates, he came forward under the patronage of [Reid] with 
impressions entirely [eastern] and the opposition given the requisition 
last year by the delegation of [Virginia] has given him an opinion that 
she wishes to defraud the publick creditors. The evidence of her payments, 
of passing the requisition upon terms unfavorable to her, of her honest 
and federal attachments, are no proof to him. he always acts under this 
impression and the utmost prudence, good temper (personally) and assur- 
ance on the part of the delegation cannot remove it. his state therefore 
can generally be calculated on in favor of all the measures of [Massa- 
chusets] who is always zealous upon all subjects of old emission money, 
publick securities etc. She always hath some influence with [Delaware.] 
and [Jersey; King] hath [married] a woman of fortune in New York 
so that if he secures a market for [fish] and turns the commerce of the 
Western country down [this river] he obtains his object. 

We have not as yet brought on the claims of the state, we shall do it in a 
few days. I am thoroughly satisfied they will be rejected. All the expences 
of Ld. Dunmore's expedition although precisely on the same footing with 
the first campaign at Boston will be thrown on the State. Yet Mass : hath 
(and did in the close of that campaign) draw money to defray its ex- 
pences. It appears to me as if the State debt wo'd never be settled and if 
it is, upon terms highly disadvantageous to us, that the certificate debt will 
be press'd only untill by the operation of the facility system most of the 
securities are mov'd southw'd, after which it will be given up. we shall 
however bring the subject on shortly, and upon the fairest principles for 
the State, in the event of a decision ag'nst her put her pretensions 
on the journals. Many of these questions you will observe are as impor- 
tant as they are intricate. That to a wise decision as to their expedience, 
the greatest industry and ability in their management will be necessary. 
I must confess I have little hope that they will take a direction agreeably 
to my own impressions of propriety. One great advantage is, that the 
delegations are in genl. in sentiment, and act together, but there are such 
powerful combinations ag'nst us, supported by and founded in considera- 
tions of private interest, that I almost despair. 5 What effect these measures 
may have, especially the instances of the [tobacco] 6 and our acc'ts. upon 
the State I cannot determine. Whether they may extend their influence 
to other objects than those they particularly affect, is incertain ; fully per- 
suaded however I am that they will give arguments to those oppos'd to 
an extension of foederal powers of greater weight than any they have had 
before. I most sincerely wish you may come up and that if you shall 
not be able you will give me yr. sentiments fully on these subjects. 

5 Cf. no. 370, ante. The Virginia delegation does not appear to have stirred the 
question at this time. The subject of state accounts with the United States was again 
brought forward Aug. 9 by a motion of Rufus King. See further the Journals, Sept. 4 
(motion of King), Sept. 5 (motions of King, and the Virginia Delegates, p. 636), Sept. 18, 
Oct. S, 12. 13. See no. 522, post. 

6 The printed text has " British debt ". The cipher is the same as that pointed out 
in note 4, above. 



378 Continental Congress 

409. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

June 1st, 1786. 
Sir, 

Pursuant to order I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency here- 
with enclosed a state of the representation in Congress for the two last 
months, to be communicated to your legislature. 

As your State is at present unrepresented, I have it in charge to press 
your Excellency in the most earnest manner to urge the attendance of the 
Delegates of your State as speedily as possible, and to inform you that 
Subjects of high importance and national concern call for discussion and 
require a full representation of the States in Congress. 

In the course of this or the ensuing week I shall transmit to your Excel- 
lency a continuation of the Journal up to the present time. 

New Hampshire Rhode Island Connecticut Delaware — and to South Caro- 
lina — after unrepresented, in the second paragraph, adding " owing to the 
bad health of one of your Members " 2 

The 1st and 3d paragraph to the other States. 3 

410. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York June 1st, 1786. 
Sir, 

In my letter of the 21st nov. I had the honor of informing your excel- 
lency that when the committees had reported on the import acts as granted 
by the respective States I would advise you thereof but as no report has 
as yet been made and it is uncertain when there will, I beg leave to make the 
following observations on some of the acts — 1st That several of the States 
which have passed acts investing the United States in congress assembled 
with power to levy the duties on imported goods agreeable to the recom- 
mendations of the 18th April (83) have inserted in their acts express 
conditions that the same shall not be in force or begin to operate untill all 
the States in the confederacy have passed acts vesting the United States in 
Congress assembled with power to levy in the several States like duties. 
2d. That the act of the State of New York does not invest the United 
States in congress assembled with power to levy in that State the duties 
therein mentioned but reserves 2 to the State of New York the sole favour 
of levying and collecting the same in the manner directed in and by an act 

[409] ' Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 54. 
2 John Kean. See no. 411, ante. 

» The letter to North Carolina is in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 639. The schedules 
of representation for April and May are ibid., pp. 640, 641, and printed under the List of 
Members, ante. 
[410] l Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 The copy has " revenues " ; " import ", thirteen lines above, and " imports ", four 
lines below, should doubtless be impost and imposts, respectively. 



June, if 8 6 379 

of that State entitled, an act imposing duties on certain goods wares and 
merchandise imported into that State passed the 18 November (84) and 
consequently prevents the operation of the imports : since some States have 
made the exercise of this power by the United States in Congress as- 
sembled an indispensible and express condition of their grants. 3d. That 
the act aforesaid does not make the collector of the said duties amenable 
to and recoverable by the U. S. in C. A. and 4th. That the duties to be 
collected may at the option of the importer be paid either in specie or 
paper money. From these circumstances together with some paragraphs 
which [are] exceptionable in the Pennsylvania and Delaware acts I can- 
not suppose that this System of revenue can be put in operation this year. 3 

411. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

,, , . , New York i June 1786. 

My Dear friend, 

I thank you for your two letters of the 18. and 20. ult. every thing 
here remains in the same situation as when I wrote you last, except that 
then we had eleven states on the Floor, and now we have only Eight, 
Delaware and Connecticut being absent, and our friend Kean so much out 
of health as to prevent his attendance. 

I regret exceedingly that the four eastern states are not all represented. 
Massachusetts is the only one of them in congress. 

If I could speak to you face to face, I should mention a particular, and 
in my Judgment an important, Reason why the New England States ought 
to be here at this Time, perhaps since the peace established, there hath 
not been before Congress a question in the decision of which they wo'ld 
have been more affected. 

I think however I will mention it to you by this or the next post ; pos- 
sibly you and I may think differently concerning it. should that be the 
case I should doubt my own Opinion, although the Office of Foreign affairs 
accords with my sentiments. 2 .... 

412. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell.) 1 

New York June 2d, 1786. 
Sir, 

Mr. Nicholas Romayne of this City yesterday laid before the Commis- 
sioners of the Board of Treasury of the United States Proposals for pur- 
chasing of the Tobacco belonging to the State of North Carolina which I 
presume will by this days Post be forwarded to your Excellency for 
Deliberation. 2 

3 See no. 401, ante, and no. 449, post. 
[4ii] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original); Life of King, I. 175. 

2 See no. 413, post. 
[412] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 642. 

2 Romayne's proposals, together with a letter from him to the board of treasury 
June 1, is in N. C. State Rets., XVIII. 638. See also ibid., pp. 539-542, 567, 576, 578, 579, 
583, 585, 588, 592, 594, 597, 603, 606, 620-623, 624, 627-637, 646-648, 656-658, 672, 673, 
678, 679, 728, 743, 761. 

31 



380 Continental Congress 

This gentleman informs me that he has not the Honor of being Known 
to you and that consequently you must be at a loss as to what Credit should 
be paid to his Proposals and has requested me to give you such Informa- 
tion respecting his Character as I may suppose him to merit, this I the 
more readily do, as the Duty I owe the State demands every Information 
that may respect her. 

Mr. Romayne and his Character have been known to me for four years 
last past, I have ever viewed him as a Man of the most pointed Punctuality 
in all his Contracts and I now consider him as a Man of large Property. 
If further Information respecting the Character of this Gentleman is 
necessary I beg leave to refer you to the Hon'ble Hugh Williamson who 
is perfectly acquainted with him. I have the Honor to be 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient and Humble Servant, 

Wm. Blount. 

413. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

„. ~ „. , New York, June 4, [1786.] 

My Dear Friend, J 

I have long entertained doubts concerning the line of Conduct, which 
Congress ought to pursue relative to the Territory of the U. S. Northwest 
of the Ohio, and am every day more confirmed in the opinion that no 
paper engagements, or stipulations, can be formed which will insure a 
desirable connection between the Atlantic States, and those which will be 
erected to the Northwestward of the Apalachian or Alleghany Mountains, 
provided the Mississippi is immediately opened, the pursuits and interests 
of the people on the two sides, will be so different, and probably so oppo- 
site, that an entire separation must eventually ensue, this consequence 
appears to me so obvious, that I very much doubt whether the U. S. would 
ever receive a penny of revenue, from the Inhabitants who may settle the 
Western Territory, should there be an uninterrupted use of the Mi^ 
sippi at this time by the Citizens of the U. S. I should consider every emi- 
grant to that country from the Atlantic States, as forever lost to the Con- 
federacy. Perhaps, I am in error, but when they have no interest in an 
Union, inconvenient to them in many points, I can discover no principle, 
which will attach them to such a connexion. I know not what advantages 
the inhabitants of the Western Territory would acquire by becoming mem- 
ben [of the Confederacy, they will want no protection, their location |, 
would sufficiently secure them from all foreign hostility; [the] exchange 
of Merchandize, or Commerce, would not be across the Apalachian M< 
tains, but wholly confined to the Mississippi. If these conjectures are 
just, in true policy ought the U. S. to be very assiduous to encourage their 
Citizens to become Settlers of the count[r]y beyond the Apalachian? the 
object of Congress appears hitherto to have been a sale of this country 
for the sinking of the domestic debt ; the immediate extinguishment of this 
debt is certainly a very important consideration, but it has its price ! 
suppose that a treaty could be formed between Spain and the U. S. upon 

[413] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (copy, mutilated: endorsed, "Furnished by 
Robert C. Winthrop, Esqr., original in his possession") ; Life of King, I. 175. 



June, 1786 381 

principles of exact reciprocity. So that the Citizens of the latter, might 
introduce into the European and African dominions of the former; all 
sorts of goods and merchandize upon the same terms on which the sub- 
jects of Spain could introduce the same articles, and on the other hand, 
that the subjects of Spain, might import into any of the U. S. all sorts of 
goods and merchandize, upon the same terms, as the Citizens of the U. S. 
would introduce the same. 

I suppose farther, that the Treaty should stipulate that all the Masts, 
Spars, Timber etc. etc. wanted for the National Marine of Spain, should 
be purchased and paid for in the U. S. with specie ; provided the quality 
of the Materials equalled that of the same articles in other Countries. 

I suppose yet farther that the Philippine Islands] be opened to the 
American Ships and [in] consequence, the gold and silver of Acapul[co 
placed within] their reach. Add to the foregoing an article [torn], not to 
relinquish the right to the free navigation of the Mississippi, but " stipu- 
lating that the U. S. should forbear to use the Navigation of the Missis- 
sippi for 20 or 25 years." Would not such a treaty be of Vast impor- 
tance to the Atlantic States, particularly to the Western division of them ? 
Would not the Fish, Flour and other products of the U.S. acquire thereby 
a manifest superiority in Spain over similar commodities of any other 
country ? Would not the conventional forbearance of the use of the Missis- 
sippi implicate most strongly the right of the U.S. independent of the 
Convention or Treaty? If these queries are answered in the affirmative, 
what objection is there on the part of the U.S. to conclude such a Treaty? 
This question brings into View, the plan of extinguishing the domestic 
debt by the Sale of the Western Territory, the System whereby it is pro- 
posed to govern the people, who shall settle Westward of the Apalachian 
Mountains and within the U.S. and the ability of the U.S., at this time 
to contend with Spain in vindicating their right to the free use and naviga- 
tion of the Mississippi. I am very sensible that the popular opinion 
throughout the U.S. is in favor of the free Navigation of the Mississippi, 
and the reasons must be strong, and important, which [could be offered to] 
oppose this opinion. I am also pretty [well satisfied] that the free naviga- 
tion of that River, will [some day] be of Vast importance to the inhabi- 
tants [within] the Territories of the U.S. yet admitting what will not be 
denied, that Spain will on no condition agree that any people, except those 
of our Nation, shall navigate the Mississippi, are the U.S. in a Condition 
to assert their right? If you answer this question as I should, {believing 
as I do that a War with Spain, France, or England would terminate in 
the loss of the Fisheries, and the restriction of boundaries, perhaps by 
Kennebeck on one part and the Apalachian Mountains on the other) is 
there any substantial objection against an Article in a Treaty with Spain 
relative to the Mississippi such as is alluded to? It is a consent to what we 
cannot alter, considering other benefits to be obtained — it must be wisdom 
then to consent. 

But how will this article affect the Sale of the Western Territory ? The 
answer which the delegates of Virginia (all of whom are probably deeply 
interested in the Ohio and Kentucky lands) would give, is, that the Value 
of the Country West of the Alleghany Mountains depends in a high degree 



382 Continental Congress 

upon the opening of the Mississippi. Admit the fact; it is desired that 
the U.S. [should under these] circumstances open that River to thei[r 
navigation.] If so, the Value placed upon these lands [which] depends 
upon the opening of the Mississippi, is an ideal value, at this time. With 
those therefore who do not wrish to involve the U.S. in a War against 
policy and sound reason, this objection is of little consideration, the 
lands perhaps will not produce so much under the present circumstances of 
the Mississippi as they would if the river was open, but to all persons 
desirous of becoming settlers, they will sell for a reasonable price, and go 
a good way in extinguishing the domestic debt. But how will such an 
article affect the intercourse between the Inhabitants of the Western Ter- 
ritory, and those of the Atlantic States? In my judgment very favorably. 
If the former are cut off for a time, from any connections except with the 
old States, across the Mountains, I should not despair that a government 
might be instituted, so connecting them with the Atlantic States, as would 
be highly [beneficial to them both] and promise a considerable [trade]. 

My dear friend, after all, these are but speculative opinions, and I am 
very doubtful of them, when a variety of influential motives, which stem 
to promise well for my country, authorizes my assent. I alluded to this 
subject in my last letter to you : 2 I wish for your counsel ; I wish the New 
England States were here. I pray you to read these remarks with candor, 
and in confidence. If I had taken time and care to have expressed my 
sentiments on this subject, I would have requested you to have communi- 
cated this paper to your friend Gov. Bowdoin, and prayed through you his 
advice. I shall be brought to a decision on this question. Congress must 
determine. If Spain don't conclude a Treaty with the U.S., 1 think they 
will endeavour to guard against the Evils they fear from us. by an in- 
timate connexion with Great Britain. I am of a committee now in con- 
ference with the Secretary of Foreign Affairs on this subject. 3 Spain 
should form a treaty with us, in preference to any other nation, and there 
is no nation with whom the U.S. could form more beneficial treaties than 
with Spain and Portugal. Spain will not give up the Mississippi. Bui 1 
will not add, I write in great haste and in full confidence. If you are at 
B6ston and can consult Mr. Bowdoin. I should thank you to do it. I in- 
tended to have written to him relative to the Barbary treaties, but have 
not been able to find time. 

Adieu vours affectionately. 

R. Kin 
Inform me of the receipt of this and of my last. 

414. Rufus KING to Elbridge Gerry. 1 
DW Gerry, Sunday Evening 4 June [17 

Mr. Hancock has sent his resignation as President, and tomorrow I 
suppose Mr. Gorham will be elected his successor: you understand the 

* No. 411, ante. Cf. no. 443, p°st- 
8 See the Journals. Mav 31 : cf. no. 408. note 3, ante. 
[414] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers. 



June, 1786 383 

meaning of this Appointment as well as I can explain it; no State is 
here from New England except Massachusetts. 2 

Your friends here are all well and make frequent enquiries concerning 
you. I shall not forget your mention of the situation of your Brother. 

I have nothing to add but an apology for a long and incorrect letter 
written to you this morning upon an interesting subject. 



415. James Manning to Nathan Miller. 1 

New York 7th of June 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I think if for a moment you would figure to yourself my Situation; 
Alone here for more than a Month ; reduced to the very last guinea and 
a trifle of Change (which is the case) ; My lodging, washing, Barber's, 
Hatters, Taylors Bills etc. not paid; without the favour of a single line 
from you advising me whether you mean to come or not ; or sending for- 
ward the 100 Dollars on hand, which you proposed doing from the 
Election, if you was not likely to follow me soon : I say if you would 
but realize my situation you could not but pity me from your heart. I 
wrote you long since and begged an answer from you one way Or another 
that I might know what measures to take. But as I am now situated I 
can neither stay nor go, except to the New City Hall, if my Creditors 
exact it; and strangers have no more compassion on me than the State 
that appointed me. I must intreat you to forward that sum of 100 Dollars 
if no more can be had, by the first opportunity, with a Line advising m'e 
of Yr. real Intentions. Matters highly interesting to this Confederacy; 
and indeed I think the Question whether the federal government shall long 
exist, are now before Congress, and there are not States sufficient to 
transact the necessary Business, as we now have rarely Nine States oh 
the floor. Our Affairs are come very much to a point ; and if the States 
continue to neglect keeping up their Delegation in Congress,' the federal 
Government must ipso facto dissolve. I have written the Governour on 
these subjects and desired his answer whether we should keep up our 
Delegation or not. I shall wait till a reasonable time for an answer from 
you and quit If I do not receive it. Send me by the Post or Packets. 
Frank your Letters by the post. I shall impatiently wait the Event, 2 

2 May 15, on the retirement of David Ramsay, Nathaniel Gorham was elected 
chairman of Congress to serve until the first Monday in June. On June 5 two letters 
from Benjamin Hichborn in behalf of Hancock, May 28 and 20, were read 1 in Congress, 
the latter offering Hancock's resignation. On June 6 Gorham was elected President. In a 
brief note to Gerry June 6 King wrote : " Gorham was this day elected President. Noth- 
ing can be done here because the States will not attend" {Life of King, J. 179). On the 
same day Secretary Thomson sent out a circular letter notifying the states of Hancock's 
resignation and Gorham's election (Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, 
f- 383; ibid., Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 57; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 513. to Con- 
necticut; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 643). See nos. 285, 289-293, 296, 297,, 30S, 326, 330, 
348, ante. 

[41 5] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, "Honourable General N. 
Miller in Warren State of Rhode Island Hon'd by Capt. Warner ") ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 546; Guild, Early History of Brown University, p. 439. . 

2 See nos. 403, 404, ante, and no. 423, post. ' , . 



384 Continental Congress 

416. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

n r New York 8 June 1786. 

Dear Gerry, J ' 

the lawless, and probably unjust, conduct of the inhabitants of Ken- 
tuckey towards the Indians bordering on the Western side of the Ohio. 
has lately occasioned the loss of a number of valuable lives on the Fron- 
tiers of Virginia. Nothing yet exhibited has proved to my mind, any 
association of tribes against the people on this side of the Ohio ; but the 
Murders, which have unfortunately happened have been perpetrated by a 
few vagrant Indians who are without a name or Tribe. 

the Govr: and Delegates of Virginia clamour for war against the 
indian Towns, and have brought the business before Congress — we are 
without nine states, and the question cannot be examined — I am decidedly 
against any such war, as I at present understand the situation and state 
of the Affair. 2 

I suppose you are now at the General Court, Sedgwick joined us here 
a few days since, . . . . 8 I see the approaching storm that awaits the 
federal Government, and shall be happier in private than in public life 

417. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

~. New York June 8th, 1786. 

We have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your letter to the 
Delegation, as well as that to the President of Congress : the latter has 
been delivered, and on motion of the State committed; the report of the 
comm'ee is herewith inclosed : it was under debate yesterday, and a 
decision would have been had. if the number of states on the floor had 
been adequate thereto: 2 when the representation will be sufficient for 
this purpose, we cannot determine as the delegates of several States in 
tin Union have been for some time past very irregular in their attendance, 
and there is no reason to conclude that any alteration will take effect for 
the better in a short time; Indeed when this event takes place, we are 
apprehensive the issue will be extremely doubtful as a considerable opposi- 
tion was made to the report when under consideration; It is perhaps an 
inconvenience in this instance that so few States have extensive frontiers: 
as they with reluctance assent to relieving us from difficulties to which 
they are not themselves likely to be exposed: We can however assure 
you that nothing shall be wanting on our parts to get such measures 
adopted, as will not only promote the views of the State, but contribute to 
the general peace and tranquility of the Union. 

The Organization of the Indian department is an object of the highest 
moment, and we entirely concur in sentiment with your Excy. on this 

[416] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 180. 

2 See no. 407, note 7, ante, and nos. 417, 424, 434, 435, 439, 442, post. 

3 The omitted passages pertain to the question of Sedgwick's retirement and that 
of King's removal to New York. See also King to Gerry July 2, Life of King, I. [86. 

f 4 1 7 ] x Va. State Lib., Kxecutive Papers (signed by Grayson, Monroe, Carrington. and 
Henry Lee, jr.) ; Henry, Patrick- Henry. III. 357. 
2 See nos. 407 (note 7), 416, ante. 



June, 1786 385 

subject as well as to the manner, as to the necessity of expediting it : it 
has been some time in the hands of a Comm'ee, and we hope as soon as 
a sufficient representation can be procured that something salutary may 
take effect. 3 

418. James White to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

~. N. York June 8th, 1786. 

.... I must acknowledge that on my arrival at congress, I reed, 
official papers respecting the indian treaty. It gave me infinite uneasiness 
that nothing in that business, could be done by us to any effect. Every 
thing respecting it was transacted before we arrived. And I am not to 
inform your excellency that these treaties require nothing further than 
to insert them on the journals, without any ratification here : this was 
done before my arrival from philada. where the necessity of providing 
for my subsistence here, had called me. If any thing can be done, at this 
time, to counteract the evil we have to complain of in the indian treaty, 
and you will please to suggest it, our duty will be to comply with it. 2 

As nothing will compel me to leave this but the difficulty of subsisting 
in the way we are supplyed, I flatter myself you will not be averse to 
giving an order for the remainder of my sallary. If it can be paid here, 
that will be a relief demanding my acknowledgments; and, from what I 
understand of a resolution of the legislature in the may sessions 1784, 
that mode will not be inconsistent with their intentions. 3 

3 See nos. 373, 394, 407, 416, ante, 418, 424, 434, 435, 439, 442, post. The movement 
initiated Mar. 21 for the creation of an Indian department was given a special impetus on 
June 6 by the report of the committee on Governor Henry's letter, and a new committee for 
that purpose was appointed that day (see also the Journals, May 17). The committee 
reported an ordinance June 28 (the day before the committee on Governor Henry's letter 
reported), which was considered July 20, 21, 24 (the ordinance revised), 26, and Aug. 4, 
and adopted Aug. 7. 

[418] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin; N. C. 
State Recs., XVIII. 648. 

2 See no. 375, note 3, ante. White and Bloodworth took their seats May 3 (see no. 
384, ante). Caswell's reply to this letter, July 9, is in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 677. 

Respecting the Indian treaties, a passage of a letter from Benjamin Hawkins to Jeffer- 
son, June 14, is of interest in this connection. Hawkins was replying to some queries of 
Jefferson concerning the various tribes of Indians in the South, and he injected the follow- 
ing paragraph into his letter : 

" You will see by the Treaties which I enclose how attentive I have been to the rights 
of these people; and I can assure you there is nothing I have more at heart than the 
preservation of them. It is a melancholy reflection that the rulers of America in render- 
ing an account to Heaven of the aborigines thereof, will have lost everything but the 
name. The interposition of Congress without the co-opperation of the Southern States 
is ineffectual, and Georgia and North Carolina have refused by protesting against their 
authority. The former will not allow that the Indians can be viewed in any other 
light than as members thereof, and the latter allows a right of regulating Trade only 
without the fixing any boundary between the Indians and citizens, as they claim all the 
Land westward according to their bill of rights and that the Indians are only tenants at 
will" (Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; North Carolina Historical Review, XII. 
253). See Caswell to Blount Mar. 1, 1787 (N. C. State Recs., XX. 628) ; also no. 375, ante, 
and nos. 471, 508, post. 

3 In the letter as printed there is a brief postscript (a further remark respecting 
the payment of his salary) which must have been overlooked in making the copy from 
the original. The letter was franked by William Blount and it bears Caswell's en- 
dorsement. 



386 Continental Congress 

419. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

~. New York, 9th June, 1786.* 

Yesterday we had the Honour to receive your Excellency's Letter of 
the 4th Instant. We went to wait on the Governor of this State with the 
Communications committed to us, but His Excellency tho' daily expected, 
is not returned from a Journey northward on which he set out some 
weeks ago. 

The Delegates from Connecticut being absent from Congress, we have 
transmitted to Mr. Mitchell, one of those Delegates (who we understand 
to be also a Member of the Legislature and now at Hartford,) a Copy of 
your Excellency's Letter of the 4th Instant, except the cautionary Part 
respecting the intercepted Letter — also a Copy of Mr. Shaw's Letter to 
your Excellency, leaving out the name of the writer of the intercepted 
Letter, and the name of the Person to whom it was directed. 8 

This morning Dr. Johnson has resumed his Seat in Congress — *We 
have communicated to him the Contents of your Excellency's Letter and 
Inclosures. He expresses great Concern that the Distractions in Penn- 
sylvania are thus Continued, but seems very confident that the State of 
Connecticut will discountenance it's Citizens in all farther pursuit of 
Claims in Pennsylvania other than such as the Laws and Policy of the 
latter shall warrant. He has not lately been at Hartford where the 
Legislature are now sitting, but says he is well informed that the Act of 
Congress respecting their proposed Cession will enable the State to induce 
the Susquehanna Company to transfer their views from Pennsylvania to 
a more western Country. This done the Insurgency in Pensa. will 
probably subside. 8 

[419] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 4. 

2 On June 9 Secretary Thomson transmitted to the states copies of the Prussian 
treaty, which had been ratified May 17. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 57; Pa. Arch., first 
ser., XI. 4, 5-14 (text of treaty) ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 649, 609-620 (treaty). 

8 Franklin's letter of June 4 to the Pennsylvania delegates, which pertained to 
disturbances in the Wyoming country, has not been found, but letters which gave rise to 
it and relate chiefly to a project for forming a new state there are in Pa. Arch., first ser.. 
X. 764-768. They are: William Shaw to the council May 18. William Montgomery to 
the council and to Chief Justice McKean May 20, and Franklin to Shaw and to Mont- 
gomery May 27. A letter from Joseph Hamilton to John Franklin Mar. 24, mentioned in 
the correspondence, is ibid.; p. 751, a letter from William Hooker Smith and othl 
Montgomery May 14 is ibid., p. 760, and one from John Franklin to Joseph Hamilton 
June 8 is ibid., XI. 3. Numerous other documents relating to the affair are in the same 
volume. 

♦Johnson's diary entry for June 9 is "at Congress", for the 10th "at Comm '< 
He does not appear to have been again in attendance until July 3, although his diary shows 
him to have been in New York July I. See no. 433, post. 

5 See no. 427, post. This letter is signed by Pettit and Bayard. St. Clair had 
taken his departure May 26 and appears to have filed at once the following statement of 
account for his services: 

" The State of Pennsylvania to Arthur St. Clair Dr. 

1786 To his Service in Congress from May 15th to the 26th both days included 

12 days at 45 pr. Day £27." 

The account is endorsed: " Ex'd and Settled Jno Nicholson Compt'r 
June 2d 1786". It bears also the endorsement: "No. 2749 Account of His Excell'y 
Arthur St. Clair Esqr. for his Pay as a Delegate in Congress. Read in Council April 
16th 1787 approved and an order drawn. Jas. Trimble for J Armstrong junr. So 



June, 1/86 387 

420. Nathan Dane to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

<-.. New York, June 10th, 1786. 

I do myself the honor to enclose to your Excellency for your private 
information, at the request of Mr. Temple copies of the demand made 
by Mr. Adams of the Western posts 2 and Lord Carmarthen's answer, 
which copies Mr. Temple yesterday handed to me. 

On this occasion permit me to observe, Sir, that a few weeks since, 
Congress received dispatches from Mr. Adams, our minister at the Court 
of London, 3 inclosing copies of his demand of those posts and the answer 
of Lord Carmarthen, with a statement of supposed grievances similar 
to those mentioned in the inclosed papers. 

All the matters to which these papers refer are under the consideration 
of Congress, and in a train of examination. The injunctions of secresy 
relative to them being taken of, the several delegations would probably 
before this time have communicated to their respective States copies of 
those dispatches touching the posts, 4 but on attention to this subject and 
said statement of supposed grievances, it appears proper previously to 
ascertain several facts relative to it. Some doubts arise how far 6 several 
of the laws mentioned in that statement ever had in fact the effect of 
laws, what constructions the courts of justice have put on those laws 
which passed in due form the several branches of the legislatures, 6 and 
how far other laws of the States and various important considerations 
are to be attended to, in order to determine with propriety how far the 
grievancies stated by the British merchants are well founded. 

But Congress cannot come to any determinations on these subjects 'till 
there shall be a fuller representation of the States, and on this occasion 
also, Sir, give me leave to express the anxiety I feel 7 arising from the 
present feeble administration of the federal government owing prin- 
cipally to the want of attendance of the delegates from several of the 
States. 8 It must give peculiar concern to any one who feels for the honor 

[420] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., VI. 97; Beverly Historical Society 
(draft). 

2 In the draft Dane first wrote, " respecting the W. posts ", then substituted " of " 
for " respecting ". 

8 This phrase is not in the draft. In the latter, besides minor variations and 
emendations, the words " the Secret'y of State " preceded " Lord Carmarthen ", but were 
erased. 

4 See nos. 402, 406, 407, ante, and no. 440, Post. Jay transmitted the papers to 
Washington June 27 and made further pertinent comments upon the critical situation of 
the country (Correspondence of Jay, III. 203; Jay, Life of Jav, I. 244). Washington's 
reply is ibid., p. 247, and in Writings (ed. Sparks), IX. 187. See further Jay's circular 
letter of July 6, no. 440, note 2, post. 

5 First written, it may be doubted at present how far ", all of which was erased, 
and " Some doubts arise " substituted. Evidently the erasure of " how far " was inadvertent. 
There are minor variations in this passage between the draft and the finished letter. 

6 The draft has at this point the following clause erased, "has [as?] in what 
States they have considered the treaty as a part of the ". 

7 First written, " express my own anxiety ". 

8 Dane first wrote, " nonattendance and apathy of several of the States ". At this 
point the following sentence is crossed out in the draft, " the powers vested in the Gover't 
by the federal Compact even as it now is seem to be vested in a body where in many in 
stances they are scarcely for the reasons above mentioned ever used ". 



388 Continental Congress 

and welfare of this Confederacy to observe our interesting negotiations 
with foreign powers 9 and important affairs at home impeded and delayed 
for many months together by this inattention ; 10 and at a time when so 
many good and well informed men in the Union are disposed to cement 
the social compact; 11 and with this anxiety I cannot but express my 
ardent wishes that the attention of the several States may be turned to 
the adoption of means for keeping up a full and punctual representation 
in Congress, and to the adoption of those regulations that shall make it 
a duty in the delegates to attend not to be dispensed with, so far as it 
shall be necessary to keep each State represented. 12 But these regulations 
I leave to the wisdom of the States to make, and only beg leave to add, 
that it is with the most sincere satisfaction I see the executive powers of 
the government of which I have the honor to be a member again lodged 
in your hands. 



421. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, ii Jane, 1786. 
Dear Gerry, 

I am sorry to see any mention made in Mr. Bowdoin's speech of the 
payment over from the Treasurer to the War Office of a sum of old 
emission money to complete the payment of Requisitions made antecedent 
to the Act of Cong, of the 18 of March 1780 for making the same. It 
the measure was accomplished, it was sufficient; there existed no neces 
for telling all the world of it : we shall hear of it in Congress. 

Another mistake (unfortunate just at this moment) in committed by 
the Govr. ; he says that Mass : did not grant to Cong. " the power to levy 
the impost ", but agreed to levy it themselves, and grant the product, now 
this is a misrepresentation, examine the act and you will find that it 
grants to Congress " the power to levy" etc. with certain Provisos. New 
York have done just what Gov. Bowdoin says Mass. did; and for that, 
among other reasons, but principally for that Reason, Congress cannot 
accept their Grant. 2 

8 In the draft some lines here, having first received several corrections, were then 
erased. Following is so much as is now legible: "where the prosperity, liberty and prop- 
erty of many of our Citizens are so deeply concerned, where the honor and welfare of these 
are so deeply interested, exceedingly . . . ." The words " and important affairs at home " 
do not appear in the draft. 

10 First written, "by the inattention of several of the Delegations, and he n 
feel the greater anxiety on account of this inattention when he observes that it takes place 
at a period in which all good and well informed men ", etc. 

11 Following the word "compact", the following clause is erased, "and when the 
exertions of federal men ought to be aided by a due adm'n of the powers already vested in 
Congress ". 

12 After some emendation the draft here reads, " so not to be dispensed with as shall 
be necessary to keeping each state represented". 

[421] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers; Life of King, I. 181. 

2 King is referring to Governor Bowdoin's address to both houses of the Massa- 
chusetts legislature on June t (Boston Magazine, II. 251-257). Bowdoin's lanRua^ 
" instead of empowering Congress, they have by an Act of their own laid the recom- 
mended duties: subject to this proviso, conformably to the recommendation, that the Act 
shall not operate until all the United States have passed Acts for imposing the like duties." 



June, 1786 389 

422. Rufus King to Jonathan Jackson. 1 

New York, ii June, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I intended sooner to have replied to yours of the 10th ult. but have 
been disappointed from post to post until this time. I wish, most sincerely, 
that your opinions concerning the manners, and Government of our 
country were more general, than I think they are. The views of indi- 
viduals are so various, and the imaginary interests of the States are so 
opposite, that without the Danger of some Evil that will affect each 
member of the Confederacy, a reasonable Hope cannot be indulged of a 
Reform. 

The situation of the federal Government is now critical; the authority 
of the confederation is found to be inadequate to bring money into the 
common Treasury, and the credit of the States is not sufficient to procure 
loans at home or abroad : indeed if the public credit was better, it could 
not, in my Judgment, be reconciled to the principles of common honesty 
to borrow, without foreseeing the means of Repayment. 

In this condition every inconvenience, which can flow from a violation 
of national engagements, and a loss of national character, might justly 
fall on our Country. 

The embarrassments of commerce are better known to you than me. 
I cannot discover how the merchants of America, can bear a competition 
with Foreigners. No commercial nation will regret our disjointed con- 
dition, or wish the States to unite in any system of commerce. Every 
partizan of France or England residing among us, uses his utmost exer- 
tions to inspire the People of the different States with jealousies of each 
other; and some of them have even sounded the alarm that the liberties 
of the People were endangered by the plan of delegating additional powers 
to congress. 

How long the most valuable, and important, interests of the States, 
will continue to be sacrificed to these unfounded jealousies, cannot exactly 
be determined ; but it is not possible that the public affairs can be in a 
much worse situation, and there is therefore consolation in the reflection 
that they will not long remain as they are. 

I fear that the commercial convention proposed to be held in Maryland 
in September, will go but a little way in effecting those measures essentially 
necessary for the prosperity and safety of the States. Georgia and South 
Carolina have not appointed Delegates ; and their legislatures will not be 
in Session before the winter. Maryland has not appointed ; although the 
convention is to be in that State. The Assembly of North Carolina have 
not elected Delegates, but it is said that the executive of that State has 
nominated persons for the office. 2 It is doubtful what the real sentiments 

[422] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLIX. 85. 

2 Concerning the proposed convention at Annapolis see nos. 388, 394, ante, 455, 465, 
468, post. The Virginia resolutions of Jan. 21 were communicated by Governor Henry 
to the other governors Feb. 23 (letter to the governor of Georgia in Henry, Patrick Henry, 
III. 348; the same to Governor Caswell, with the Virginia resolutions, in AT. C. State 
Recs., XVIII. 542). The Virginia Commissioners were Edmund Randolph, James Madison, 



390 Continental Congress 

of Virginia are on the question of commercial powers. This is certain, 
that the proposition for the Annapolis convention, which originated in 
the Assembly of Virginia, did not come from the persons favorable to a 
commercial system common to all the States, but from those, who in 
opposition to such a general system have advocated the particular regula- 
tions of individual States. The merchants through all the States are of 
one mind, and in favor of a national system. The planters in the Southern 
States are divided in their opinions and it is to be feared that the majority 
is against the only plan, which can insure the prosperity and honor of 

the confederacy 

The monopoly of Tobacco by the Farmers General was the subject of 
the letter written by Mr. Jefferson, to which the Marquis alludes. I have 
taken an Abstract of the letter and will inclose it. It produced no beneficial 
effect; little attention was probably paid to it; the Reform would have 
affected the Farmers General, whose influence has been sufficient hereto- 
fore to shake a minister in his Office. 8 .... 

423. James Manning to Nathan Miller. 1 

Neiw York 12th of June 1786. 
Sir, 

Yours of the 27th ult came to hand two days ago. 2 Am mortified 
exceedingly that you are not come forward nor sent on the money on hand, 
for I am reduced to but a few Shillings and my Bills not paid. My Situ- 
ation, without a Colleague, without money and without any instructions, 
or favourable prospects from Government is painful. Rhode Island has 
not many more strides to make to compleat her disgrace and ruin too; 
but that is not all she is likely to hold a distinguished rank amongst the 
contributors to the ruin of the federal Government. Never, probably, 
was a full delegation of the States more necessary than now, for you may 

Walter Jones, St. George Tucker, Meriwether Smith, David Ross, William Ronald, and 
George Mason. On Feb. 19 Edmund Randolph, notified Governor Caswell of the time 
and place fixed by the Virginia commissioners, namely, the first Monday in September, 
at Annapolis {ibid., p. 535). On June 10 Caswell designated the commissioners for North 
Carolina, namely, Abner Nash, Alfred Moore, Hugh Williamson, John Gray Blount, and 
Philemon Hawkins (ibid., p. 650). On June 21 Caswell notified Henry, Randolph, and 
others of these appointments (ibid., pp. 658-661), and on July 10 he issued commissions to 
Nash, Blount, and Williamson, neither Moore nor Hawkins having responded (ibid., pp. 
681-683, 692). Williamson's response, June 16, is ibid., p. 655. The Pennsylvania act of 
appointment, Mar. 21, is ibid., p. 580 (Vice-President Biddle's letter of transmittal, Apr. 12, 
is ibid., p. 696), that of Massachusetts, Mar. 23, is ibid., p. 584 (Governor Bow<l 
letter of transmittal, Mar. 30, is ibid., p. 587), that of Delaware, June 15 is ibid.. 
(Governor Van Dyke's letter of transmittal, July 12, is ibid., p. 683), and that of Rhode 
Island, "June session", is ibid., p. 688 (Governor Collins's letter of transmittal, July i>. il 
ibid., p. 687). 

• Preceding this passage King had been discussing some questions of French trade, 
particularly in American oil. The allusion is doubtless to Jefferson's report transmitted 
with his letter to Jay Jan. 2 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 683 ct scq.). Jefferson re- 
turned to the subject of the tobacco monopoly in his letters of May 27 and 31. See no. 
456, note 3, post. 

[433] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed. " Honourable Nathan Miller 
at Warren State of Rhode Island Hon'd by Mr. Ward") ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 547 ; Guild, Early History of Broxen University, p. 440. 

2 No. 404, ante. Cf. nos. 308, 400, 403, ante, and no. 429, post. 



June, i/86 391 

rest assured, that in the opinion of every Member of Congress, and in the 
several departments, things are come to a Crisis with the federal Govern- 
ment. You say you think the present house do not want a Congress, they 
may, more than probable, very soon see the Accomplishment of their 
wishes : For without a speedy reform in the Policy of the States, the 
federal Government must be no more. The flagrant violations of the public 
faith solemnly plighted, in the late Emissions of Paper money on the 
Conditions on which it is emitted, is here considerd as the completion of 
our ruin as a Nation ; 3 but I wrote you before on this subject, it is too 
painful to repeat. Pray send me the money on hand, or come and bring 
it yourself without loss of time, at least write me by every vessel. 

424. The Secretary of Congress to the Commissioners for Indian 
Affairs of the Middle and Northern Departments. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

r* ,, Tune 1 6th, 1786. 

Gentlemen, J ' 

The above is a copy of a Motion made this day in Congress, which is 

referred to you to take order. I just beg leave to add for your information 

that the meaning of this reference is that you comply with directions 

contained in the Motion. 2 

425. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

r. «. N. York June 16, 1786. 

Since my last but little hath been done in Congress, we have had 
generally not more than 7 states present — the only time that 9 were their 
time was employ'd upon the subject of the Connecticut cession, which 
ultimately was accepted, whereby she cedes all the land lying westw'd of 

3 Dr. Solomon Drowne of Providence wrote to Manning June 23 : ". . . . the body 
politic labors under a threatening malady, the furor pecuniae nothae. The monstrous pro- 
duction has at length come to light, and we heartily wish it may come to that other light 
spoken of by Longinus. This mock money is forced on some, taken by a few others ; but 
more generally refused in this town and Newport. ... I am sorry your residence in New 
York should be rendered anyway disagreeable to you, as I fear it must from your col- 
league's withholding himself, and also from disappointment with respect to pecuniary sup- 
plies. But these are only a small part of the ills the statesman has to cope with." In a 
further passage Drowne says : " Wishing to make some of your uncongrcssional hours 
agreeable. I would bring you acquainted with M. Otto, Charge dcs Affairs from the Court 
of Versailles. From the intimacy which subsisted between us on board the French Packet, 
I found him a man of good heart, of extensive knowledge, of obliging manners, and there- 
fore a worthy companion" (Guild, op. cit., p. 436). With regard to Manning's subsequent 
difficulties in collecting the pay for his services in Congress see his letter to Rev. Hezekiah 
Smith Jan. 18, 1787 (ibid., p. 444)- See also Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 549 et seq. Cf. 
no. 471, post. An article by John Schoolcraft, " Inflation in Lilliput ", in the Virginia 
Quarterly Review, March, 1936, includes some observations upon this episode. 

[424] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 58. 

2 The motion (by King and Monroe) instructed the commissioners to report upon 
conditions in the Kentucky and Wabash regions. The report is in the Journals, June 21. 
Cf. no. 416, ante. A motion of Symmes, June 30, for an instruction to the Indian com- 
missioners, was similarly referred to the commissioners " to take order ", and Secretary 
Thomson so notified them in like form the same day (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 67). 

[425] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings of Monroe, I. 136; Ban- 
croft, Formation of the Constitution, I. 509. 



392 Continental Congress 

a line drawn westw'd of the Pena. line parellel with the same, our State 
voted against it but were in sentiment for it. it is hop'd it will terminate 
the variance respecting the Wyomin[g] settlement by enabling Connecti- 
cut to give the claimants other land in lieu and thereby establish the 
government of Pena. in the benefit of the decree of Trenton, other reasons 
there are which apply to the geographic position of the land and the 
influence that consideration may have in the councils of Connecticut. fa 
voted ag'nst it under the sentiment, upon wh. our State hath always acted 
of her right to the no. west line from the northern extremity of her 
charter limits, which we suppos'd sho'd be regarded, even after the right 
was given to the US., by the delegation. 2 

What shall finally be done with [Spain] respecting the [Missisipi] 
becomes an interesting question, and one pressing on us for a decision. 
[Gardoqui] has been [long labouring] it's [occlusion with Jay]. For 
sometime I have been perfectly satisfied [the latter required no arguments 
to bring him in to the same sentiment, the proposition is that it be shut 
for thirty years in consideration for which Spain will] admit us into [ her 
ports] upon a [footing with her own subjects we reciprocating]. This 
you may recollect was rejected at Annapolis upon its own merits only. 
It is however magnified here as a great advantage and equivalent to the 
consideration requir'd. [We are also threatned with the project of a 
treaty] between [Spain] (in case this fails) [and Britain] yet I cannot 
comprehend upon what principle it can take effect. [Jay] stated diffi- 
culties in the management of this business [with the minister] and pro- 
pos'd, without bringing any of these circumstances to [view that a com- 
mittee be appointed with power to controul] all circumstances respecting 
[the treaty] with a view of [evading his instructions] and [concluding 
the treaty] before they were known, but as they were known to some 
who had marked the progress of the business each proposition was dis- 
cussed on 3 its own particular merits in the first instance. A committee 
was appointed to report. [Jay] attended it. of this [I] was a member. 
To us he co'd make no communication we did not already know, so that the 
plan fail'd in not carrying a committee in the first instance for the puq>ose. 
This was a fortnight past and as yet we have made no report. 4 

I have given circumstantially the state of this business as it has appear'd 
to me not on evidence absolutely presumptive only 

426. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

„, , „. New York June 18, 1786. 

My dear Sir, ' 

I intended by this post to have sent you a copy of the North Carolina 

law granting the supplementary Funds, but it is very voluminous, and 

2 See nos. 394, 402, 405-407, ante. Bracketed words in the passage following are 
written in cipher. 

• The edge of the manuscript is frayed, so that occasional letters, syllables, or 
small words have become obliterated ("on" here and "as" in the next paragraph). To 
avoid confusion with enciphered words they are not bracketed. 

* See nos. 402, 406-408, ante, 437, 443, 447, 463-482, post ; also the Journals, Jul> 
Aug. 1, 3. 

[426] 1 N". Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers; Life of King, I. 136. 



June, 1/86 393 

the copy is not finished. I fear it will come too late, as I presume your 
Session will be a short one. 

Connecticut and New Jersey have finished their Sessions without attend- 
ing to the situation of the confederacy; the former took into consideration 
the Requisition of last year, and refused a compliance with it — the latter 
in their late Session did not even treat the subject with the attention it 
received in Connecticut. 

You my dear friend, must know our Situation, as fully as I do, who 
am a daily witness of the humiliating condition of the Union. You may 
depend on it, that the Treasury now is literally without a penny, by 
anticipations, and the collections from Virginia, Maryland and this State, 
the Board of Treasury have made provision for the Dutch interest, which 
fell due this month — but there is no Prospect of their being able to 
provide for the payments which will be due in January, the posts on 
the Ohio are not well supplied with military stores, the Secretary at War 
applied a few days since for iooo Dollars for the transportation of the 
necessary Ammunition to these Posts, the Board of Treasury, urgent 
as the occasion of this application is allowed to be, explicitly declare 
their utter inability to make this pitiful advance. What are we to expect? 

I wish I could see you for a few hours ; It is impolitic to write anything 
as information, which cannot be clearly proved, and yet you and I have 
been under the fullest conviction of the views and intentions of men, 
concerning which such clear proof did not exist, be assured that your 
apprehensions of a certain influence in this State are well founded. Nay 
farther, the influence is not confined to this State — those men who have 
hazarded every valueble consideration in the cause of their country, and 
those who are willing to pursue their example, are now held up to the 
People as their Enemies and not their friends, every man who wishes 
to strengthen the federal Government, and confirm the Union, is repre- 
sented as unfriendly to the liberties of the People. 2 .... 

427. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

Wethersfield June 18th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I reed, your's of the 13th Inst, and am sorry to find you did not come 
on to Hartford, altho the Assembly had retired, we all wish to see you. 
I think the people are more fond of you than ever, they had heard your 
performance at the opening of our western Business much celebrated 
before I arrived and seem'd to hold their Manhood cheap, that they were 
not present to hear it. 2 

I am sorry to inform that the Govr. and all publick Men had retired 
some Days before I reed, your Letter; that 1 could expect no Assistance 
in forwarding Supplies to you. when they were together I was not un- 

2 Cf. no. 422, ante, and no. 429, post. On June 13 King wrote Gerry this brief 
note : " Dear Gerry : We have only seven states — the consequences you may very 
well understand, no state from New England except Massachusetts. Farewell." N. Y. 
Hist. Soc., King papers. 

[427] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 117. 

2 See no. 419, ante. 



394 Continental Congress 

mindful of your Situation and made frequent mention of it to Govr. and 
Council, who all seem'd anxious on the Occasion, but took no Steps to 
releive. 

Yesterday I mounted my horse and rode to Hartford determin'd to 
squeeze some Money, out of somebody for you. I found nothing but 
Apathy in every one but our Freind Col. Wadsworth who engaged to 
write you by to-morrow Stage and give you Authority to take Money of 
his, in the hands of Mr. Shaler or Mr. Watson Merch'ts in N'w York ; 
but could not be prevail'd upon, to take the Credit of the State in pledge 
for the money, but would have you responsible personally. 

I advise you to accept his offer, the Executive of the State will exert 
itself to answer all Demands on you for borrowed Money, provided tis 
not known that the Lender is a Subject of this State. Was there any 
Decision here, there would be no want of money for the Delegates. The 
Legislative well directs and the people pay, The blame is justly imputable 
some where else 

An Act has pass'd empowering you to make the Cession agreable to 
the Resolve of 26th May, and I have applied for a Copy but could not 
as yet be furnished, will forward it, as no body will attend to it beside. 
Forgive me D'r Sir the Inelegance of this Line, as tis wrote with a room 
full of Company, talking to and teazing me incessantly, and I pray you 
soon to be at N'w York 8 and to drag with you Mr. Sturgiss. 

428. Richard Henry Lee to the President of Congress 

(Nathaniel Gorham). 1 

~. Chantilly in Virginia June 20, 1786. 

The enclosed papers that I have the honor of transmitting to your 
Excellency for the consideration of Congress I have but now received 
aJtho they are dated in the last year. 

I am perfectly satisfied that this demand of Mr. Schweighauser will 
be found, on due enquiry, to be right; and that this worthy Gentleman 
who has been long injuriously baffled of his honest demand plainly against 
the will of Congress, will now be fully paid by the effectual measures that 
Congress in their wisdom and justice shall direct.* 

429. James Manning to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(John Collins). 1 

... Xkw York, 23d June, 1786. 

Not long since I wrote you and gave the Information which I thought 
it my duty to give, 8 since which, for want of a sufficient number of States 

8 See nos. 402, 405-407, 425, ante, 458, post. 
[428] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 723; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), II. 414. 

8 See the Journals, July 13, Oct. 16; also Jefferson to Jay Aug. EI, with a letter 
of Schweighauser and Dobree [Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 796), and Jay to Jeffer- 
son Oct. 27 (postscript, ibid.) and Dec. 14 (ibid., p. 808). 

[429] l R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 44; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 548; R. I. Coi. Recs., X. 209. 
2 May 26 (no. 403, ante). 



June, 1/86 395 

to transact any business of importance, little has been done; and for 
several Weeks past Congress have been, the greatest part of the time, 
under the necessity of adjourning from day to day, as they could not make 
a Congress, though business of the highest importance to the Union 
demands the decisions of Congress. Those States who keep up their 
Delegation are not a little displeased with the delinquent States ; and it is 
the unanimous voice and opinion of those on the floor of Congress that 
a continuance of this Neglect, will ere long, be attended with the most 
Serious, not to Say the most fatal consequences. On this Head I am 
full of, I think, well founded fears. 

In obedience to the Orders of the General Assembly, at their session 
in February, I, on the 27th of April ult. embarked for New York; and 
immediately took my seat in Congress, in the full expectation that the 
State determined to support a Delegation. But I have not reed, a single 
Dollar to defray the great Expenses attendant upon my present Situ- 
ation. As I was not in Cash of my own, I could not discharge my Bills ; 
and they consequently all remain unpaid, and that to my no small morti- 
fication ; and this must remain to be the case till I experience the assistance 
of the State. Add to this I am without a colleague without whom the 
State cannot have a voice. 

I now solicit explicit directions from the Legislature in reference to my 
future conduct. My present situation is peculiarly disagreeable, and I 
beg your Excellency, as early as possible in the Session to lay my request 
before the house, that I may have their Ultimatum, whether they mean 
to support a delegation or not, that I may conduct myself accordingly. But 
I must presume that that Honourable House will not recall me without 
furnishing me with efficient means to enable me to leave New York, in a 
way which may not wound my feelings nor reflect dishonour on the 
State. Please Sir, to communicate, on this Subject, without Loss of time. 

430. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
June 29th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor to inform you, that tuesday next being the anniversary 
of the declaration of Independence there will be a public Levee at the 
House of His Excellency the President of Congress, from the hours of 
twelve to two to receive the Ordinary Congratulations. You will please 
to communicate this intelligence to the foreign Ministers and others in 
public Characters from foreign Courts within your department and to 
such strangers of distinction as you may Judge convenient and proper. 2 

[430] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 61 (addressed, "John Jay 
Esqr. Secreatary for foreign affairs") ; ibid., Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 307. 

2 See the Journals, June 28. Similar letters (Letter-Book, pp. 61-64) were written 
to sundry other officials, namely, the secretary at war (Henry Knox), the board of treasury 
(Arthur Lee, Walter Livingston, and Samuel Osgood), the commissioners for treating 
with the Indians of the northern and middle departments (Richard Butler and Samuel 

32 



396 Continental Congress 

431. The Secretary of Congress to the Judges of the Court of 

Appeals. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congrk> 
Sir June 29, 1786. 

In my Letter of the 5th July last I informed you that the Committee 
to whom was referred the Letter of the 23d Decnvr 1784 from M< 
Griffin and Lowell two of the Judges of the Court of appeals reported 
as their Opinion that the present Judges of the Court of appeals were 
still in Commission and that it would be necessary that the Court of 
appeals should remain upon its establishment except with respect to the 
salaries of the Judges which should cease from a day to be fixed by 
Congress and that in lieu thereof they should be allowed a certain num- 
ber of dollars per day during the time they should attend the sitting of 
the Court and including the time necessarily employed in " beginning 
travelling to and from the Court " that Congress not coming to a deter- 
mination at that time the report was recommitted and the Resolution 
of the first of July was passed of which I transmitted to you a Copy, 
whereby the salary of the Judges was stopped, their Commission still re- 
maining in force. 

I have now the honor to inform you that in consequence of sundry Me- 
morials and petitions from persons claiming Vessels in the Courts of 
Admiralty in some of the states praying for hearings and rehearings 
before the Court of Appeals the United States in Congress assembled have 
been pleased to pass the Resolutions herewith enclosed, authorising and 
directing the Judges of the Court of appeals to sustain appeals and grant 
rehearing or new trials whereever Justice and right may in their Opinion 
require it; establishing the allowance to be made to the Judges, and direct- 
ing the Court to assemble at the City of New York on the first Monday in 
November next. 

It being given me in charge to take order for publishing these Resolu- 
tions for the information of all persons concerned, I have ordered Copies 
of them to be inserted in the News papers of this City with a request to 
the Printers of the several states to republish them in their papers, but 
lest any of them should fail I have transmitted Copies to the supreme Ex- 
ecutive of the several States and requested that they would be pleased 
to cause them to be published for the information of their respective Citi- 
zens. I shall esteem it as a favor if you will take such further Stepf 
you shall Judge necessary that all persons concerned may have due 
information. 2 



Holden Parsons), the postmaster general (Ebenezer Hazard), the governor of New 
York (George Clinton), the mayor of New York City (James Dtnne), the president 
of the chamber of commerce (John Broome), and the president of the Marine Sc 
(James Farquhar). The letter to Clinton was in N. Y. State Lib., Ginton Papers, no. 
5747. See no. 438, post. 

[431 ] l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 65 (addressed. " The Honorable 
Cyrus Griffin, G. Read, John Lowell, Esqrs. Judges of the Court of Appeal- 

2 See the Journals, May 19, June 27. Thomson's circular letter to the states, 
June 28, is in the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 60, and is printed in N. C. State Rccs.. 
XVIII. 666. See no. 530. t>ost. 



June, 1786 397 

432. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York, 30th June, 1786. 
Sir, 

It is with Regret we find occasion to mention that the discontents which 
arose between Congress and the Executive Council of Pennsylvania in the 
year 1783, are not wholly forgotten. An Application from Mr. John 
Sullivan for pay and commutation as an officer of the Line or Quota of 
Troops of Pennsylvania, which has been pressed on the Commissioner of 
Army Accounts in an unusual Manner, has occasioned a Reference to 
Congress, and of course a revisal of some of the circumstances which 
accompanied those Discontents. The matter we more particularly allude 
to, is a supposed Reluctance in the Executive of Pennsylvania to call to 
account and punish the persons concerned in the Mutiny of the Soldiers in 
1783 which produced consequences not necessary to be now described. 
This Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Carbery were supposed to be promoters of the 
Mutiny, and to have fled the Country in consequence of it. In 1784 Mr. 
Carbery returned to Maryland and was there arrested. Notice, it is said 
was given to the Council of Pennsylvania, where the offence was com- 
mitted, and certain affidavits and other Documents tending to prove the 
guilt of Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Carbery were transmitted to Council and 
still remain in their custody ; but that Mr. Carberry was not demanded, nor 
any legal cognizance of the Affair taken on the Part of Pennsylvania. 
Some time in 1785, it is said, Mr. Sullivan appeared and that he has since 
remained publickly and without disguise in Philadelphia, unquestioned by 
public authority touching the said offence. 

We know of no late Act of Congress as a Body, except the Resolution 
approving the Conduct of the Commissioner in refusing the Demands of 
Mr. Sullivan, on which to ground this communication ; but in the course of 
the Investigation suggestions and Insinuations were used which indicated 
opinions and sentiments less honourable to the Executive Authority of 
Pennsylvania than we could perceive without Pain, tho' we were not suffi- 
ciently informed to oppose them with Success. We are not apprized that 
Congress either desire or expect any Explanations on this Subject, nor 
would we be understood as desirous of reviving Discussions which have 
been heretofore permitted to subside ; but we conceive it to be our Duty to 
advise your Excellency of the existence of some remains of those discon- 
tents which we had hoped would forever have remained in oblivion. Your 
Excellency and the Council will judge whether any and what use to make 
of the Information. 

We do ourselves the Honour to inclose herewith a Copy of a List of 
Papers transmitted to Council by the Secretary of Congress in 1784, which 
List was called for and read on the occasion we have alluded to ; and a copy 
of the Resolution of Congress on the application of Mr. Sullivan. 2 

[432] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 27 (signed by Pettit and Bayard). 

2 The list of papers transmitted by the delegates follows the letter, ibid., pp. 28-29. 
Concerning the transmittal of the papers in May, 1784, see these Letters, vol. VII., p. 531. 
For sundry aspects of the affair see ibid., passim (index, Henry Carbery, and Lieut. John 



398 Continental Congress 

433. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

July 1st, 1786. 
Sir, 

Pursuant to order I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency here- 
with enclosed a State of the representation in Congress for the month of 
June to be communicated to Your Legislature. 

By this and the Statements formerly transmitted Your Excellency and 
the Legislature will perceive that Since the first Monday in Novr. last 
there has only been a representation of 9 States in Congress for 10 days, 
of 10 States for 10 days and of n States for 7 days so that during the 
space of eight months there have only been 27 days in the whole, when 
Congress were in the capacity to consider and transact the great affairs of 
the Confederacy. 

I have the pleasure to observe that there is now a representation of ten 
States which I hope will soon encrease and continue. 2 

434. Charles Pettit to James Wilson. 1 

New York 26. July 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Since the ordering of two Companies to the Rapids of the Ohio, 
the Report on Governor Henry's Letter has been the principal Business of 

Sullivan). A memorial from Sullivan relative to pay claimed to be due him was presented 
to Congress May 23 or 24, 1786, but the reading was stopped before completion (see the 
Journals, p. 307 n.). On June 27 Sullivan's claims were again brought to the attention of 
Congress by John Pierce, commissioner for the settlement of army accounts, who had 
refused Sullivan's application for pay and commutation. Pierce states in his letter (dated 
June 26, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 62, f. 135) that he had addressed Congress on the subject 
the preceding October 26. The Journals contain no reference to that letter, neither has the 
letter been found among the Papers of Congress. What appears however to be a copy of 
the letter, though unsigned and bearing the date Oct. 26, 1786, is in the Pennsylvania 
Archives at Harrisburg, Post-Revolutionary Papers, vol. XXXIII. In that letter, after 
mention of Sullivan's application for pay and commutation, is the following statement : 
" In answer, I have informed him [that it] appeared to me his leaving this country while 

{he] was an Officer must be construed a relinquishment of his appointment, and that there- 
ore he was not in the service at the end of the war, which is made necesttr} , " entitle 
him to the Commutation; but that the arrears that were due to him at the time he left 
the Country being a debt, must be paid, unless some resolve of Congress or Law of this 
Country debars him. At a loss in what manner to conduct myself on this occasion, I do 
myself the honor to apply to your Excellency and Congress for a direction.'' 

For a later episode in Sullivan's career sec no. 723, note 5, post. 

[433] x Copied from the original (to Connecticut; also to Georgia), then in th< 
session of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Library of Congress, SecretaiVs Letter* 
Book, p. 68; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5751 ; N. C. State Rccs.. XVI II. 670. 

2 To the Letter-Book copy is appended the following notation: "To Rhodeisland 
and Delaware instead of ' encrease and continue ' say be encreased by that of your State 
which still continues unrepresented." 

William Samuel Johnson, who appears to have been absent since Sunday, June 11 (see 
no. 419, note 4, <i»i/<'), has the following entries in his diary July 1 to 3: "July 1st 
at State House Exam'g Journals of Congress etc. Took Lodgings in Wall Street No. 60. 
at Van Tyles etc. Bends Bill 12/. Shav'g Box etc. 5/. Exp. 7/; 2d. Hot. Sund'y. St. Pauls. 
Reed. Visits Mr. Stewart. Exps. 4/. Porter 8/ ; 3d. Do. [1. <?., " Hot "] Visits. At Congress. 
Tea Mrs. Smith. Funeral Mrs. C. at Court. Exps. 12/.' 

[434] ' Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, "The Hon'ble James Wiuon Esqr. Philadelphia Free C. Pettit"). 



July, 1786 399 

Congress for three or four Days. After various Manoeuvres the whole 
Report was negatived by a large Majority as being more hostile than 
we conceived existing Circumstances would warrant. A soothing Answer 
however is ordered to be given to the Govr. of Virginia, requesting him 
to hold the Militia of Kentucky in readiness to cooperate with the Troops 
to repel Invasions if necessary. 2 The State of the Nation is yet as loose as 
ever. On Monday last the House went into a Comm'ee of the Whole, but 
it can scarcely be said any Progress was made in the Business. We have 
now ten States, and if no other Order of the Day is pressed for, we may 
go into the Committee again Tomorrow. 3 

435. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, July 3d, 1786. 

Your Excellency's letter of the 16th of May was received in due time 
and communicated to Congress. After mature deliberation thereon I have 
the honor to inform you that the United States in Congress Assembled, 
desirous to give the most ample protection in their power to the Citizens 
of the United States have directed their commandant on the Ohio to detach 
two Companies of Infantry to the rapids of the Ohio; and request that 
you will give orders to the Militia of that district to hold themselves in 
readiness to Unite with the federal Troops in such operations as the 
Officer commanding the Troops of the United States may judge necessary 
for the protection of the frontiers. And further that Congress have now 
under deliberation the Organization of the Indian department for the pur- 
pose of extending to the frontiers regular and certain security against the 
future designs of the Indians. I do myself the honor of transmitting to 
your Excellency herewith enclosed a Copy of the Resolution for detaching 
the two Companies, and of that on which this Letter is grounded. 2 

436. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary for Foreign 

Affairs. 1 
Dear Sir, New York 3 July 1786. 

I am sorry the act of the 2j ult. was not entered in your book previous 
to its appearance in the news papers. It was owing to accident and not 

2 The two companies were ordered despatched to the rapids of the Ohio June 22 
(see also the Journals, June 15, 21). The " soothing Answer " to Virginia was the resolve 
of June 30. See nos. 407, 416, 417, ante, and no. 435, post. 

3 See nos. 403, 407, ante. On July 5 a grand committee was appointed " to report 
such amendments to the Confederation and a draft of such resolutions as it may be neces- 
sary to recommend to the several states for the purpose of obtaining from them such 
powers as will render the federal government adequate to the ends for which it was 
instituted ", and the committee made its report Aug. 7. See nos. 471, 489, 490, 497, 506, 508, 
post. Cf. nos. 455, 463, post. 

[435] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 69; Henry, Patrick Henry, 
III. 361. 

2 See the Journals, May 26, 30, June 6, 16, 22, 29, 30; also nos. 407, 417, 424, 434, 
ante, and no. 439, post. A printed copy of the resolution of July 30 is in Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers. 

[436] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 70. 



400 Continental Congress 

design. And indeed ever since the passing that act the clerks in my office 
have been so hurried and pressed with a variety of applications and busi- 
ness that I can easily account for the omission. I am sorry Mr. Remsen 
has had occasion to remark that such omissions are not un frequent, it 
being my standing order to enter immediately in every book every thing 
which has the least referrence to or which either directly or indirectly affects 
the business of the respective Office or board. However I dare hope that 
in future you will not have occasion to complain of the want of attention 
in this Office. 2 

437. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

„, , „ , New York Julv id. 1786. 

My dear GenL. J J ° ' 

.... Your reasoning on the navigation of the Missisippi is perfectly 
conformable to the prevalent doctrine on that subject in Congress.- We 
are very solicitous to form a treaty with Spain for commercial purpc 
indeed no nation in Europe can give us conditions so advantageous to our 
trade as that Kingdom. The carrying business they are like our selves in. 
and this common source of difficulty in adjusting commercial treut\> 
between other nations does not apply to America and Spain. But My dear 
Genl. I do not think you go far enough. Rather than defer longer the 
benefits of a free liberal system of trade with Spain, why not agree to the 
occlusion of. the Mississippi, this occlusion will not, cannot exist longer 
than the infancy of the western emigrants, therefore to those people what 
is now done, cannot be important ; to the atlantic states it is highly impor- 
tant, for we have no prospect of bringing to conclusion our negotiations 
with the court of Madrid, but by yielding the navigation of the Mississippi. 
Their minister here, is under positive instructions on that point, in all other 
arrangements the Spanish monarch will give to the States testimonys of 
his regard and friendship, and I verily beleive that if the above difficulty 
could be removed we should soon experience the advantages which would 
flow from connexion with Spain 

•The act of June 27 was that pertaining to the Court of Appeals. Following is 
Jay's letter (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 80, vol. III., f. 1) : 

" New York 3d July 1; 
D'r Sir, I found in the Newspapers of this Day an Act of Congress of 27th 11 It : re sp ecting 
the Court of Appeals. As this Act is interesting to Foreigners as well as to Citizens, and 
particularly to Mr. Van Berckel's Case of the Sloop Chester, I expected to find it among 
the Acts of Congress entered in the Book daily sent from this Office to receive such as ma) 
affect the Business of it. It was not however to be found in it, and Mr. Remsen telh 
that though he has often desired your Clerks to be more particular and accurate, yet thai 
such Omissions are not unfrequent. A gentle Hint from you will doubtless pro d uce more 
Attention." 

The case of the sloop Chester had been brought before Congress on Dec. 18, 1783, through 
a note from the minister of the Netherlands, Nov. 23, and occasionally reappeared daring 
the next three years. An act relative to the case was passed July 24, 1780. Scattered 
through the Van Berckel correspondence (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, vol. III.) are 
numerous letters pertaining to the case. 

[437] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings of Washington (cd. Sparks ). 
IX. 173 n. 

* Lee is replying to Washington's letter of June 18 (ihid.. p. 172). Cf. DO*. 40-'. 
408, 425, ante, 443, 447. 457. 45". 4<M- 4<)9. post. 



July, 1/86 401 

438. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

D'r Gerry, 4 ^ 86 ' 

In consequence of an order of congress, instead of a public Dinner a 
public levee was held from 12. to 3. ocl'k at the House of the president, 
at which were present the members of Congress, Officers of the Great 
Departments, Foreign Ministers etc. etc. 2 the Cincinnati are in the high- 
est prosperity, they celebrate the Day with a splendor exceeding any 
thing within the practice of Government — of course draw the Huzzas and 
admiration of the Multitude, the Chapter of these Knights appointed a 
deputation of four members to present the anniversary congratulations to 
the president and members of Congress, they attended the Levee, and I 
was witness to the degredation of Government in seeing them reed. etc. etc. 3 

439. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). 1 

~. New York July 5, 1786. 

We do ourselves the honor to transmit to your Excellency the proceed- 
ings and final decision of Congress upon the subject of your letter respect- 
ing the hostilities of the Indians upon the frontier inhabitants of our State, 
we also transmit to you a copy of the report of the Indian Commissioners 
on the same subject, which became necessary for the information of Con- 
gress, while the report was under consideration. 2 

440. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 6 July 1786. 

The commercial treaty with portugal was signed at London on the 25 of 

Ap. congress are not yet in possession of it, but probably will receive it 

[438] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers; Life of King, I. 186. 

2 See the Journals, June 28 ; also no. 430, ante. William Samuel Johnson enters in 
his diary for July 4, " Comp'y to Presidt. Cincinati Oration. Fire Work." Under July 5 
he records, ". . . . at Congress. Din'd Presidt. Horse Race. Exps. 13/". The 6th and 
7th he was " at Congress ", the 8th he was " at Comm'ee ". 

3 The New York Daily Advertiser of July 3, and again July 4, printed the pro- 
gramme of the celebration arranged by the Common Council. The issue of July 6 contained 
an account of the "Anniversary of American Independence ". 

" The morning was ushered in by the ringing of bells and a discharge of cannon. At 
twelve o'Clock a grand procession [headed by city watchmen and closed by citizens] 
.... to the house of his Excellency the Governor — and from thence to the house of 
his Excellency the President of Congress, where the compliments of the day were first 
paid to his Excellency by the Governor, and afterwards by his Worship the Mayor, in 
behalf of the Citizens of New York. From whence they returned to Corre's tavern, where 
a cold collation was provided by the Corporation. And the Day was closed by the ringing 
of bells and the firing of cannon." 

There follows an account of the meeting of the Cincinnati at Corre's tavern in com- 
memoration of the day, at which suitable orations were delivered by Colonels Hamilton 
and Walker. One of the thirteen toasts was, " May the powers of Congress be adequate 
to preserve the General Union ". 

[439] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson, Monroe, Carrington, and 
Henry Lee). 

2 See no. 435, ante. The report of the Indian commissioners is in the Journals, 
Tune 21. Cf. no. 686, post. 

[440] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc. King Papers; Life of King, I. 186. 



402 Continental Congress 

by the first private American ship from England. You well know the 
regulation formed in Portugal in favor of the Millers of that Country, 
exertions were not wanting on the part of the american ministers to obtain 
a relaxation of this Regulation, and permission to import into that King- 
dom the american Flour, but without any success. The treaty will not 
therefore be so extensively beneficial as could have been wished, but such 
as it is I think will prove the most valueable Treaty congress have yet 
formed regulating commerce. 

The letters from Mr. A. and Mr. F. of Ap'l 2$ are most explicit that 
nothing is to be expected from the disposition of the Court of London. 
The language there is, why should we form a commercial Treaty, when 
we at present pocket all the advantages of the american Commerce with- 
out a Treaty ? 2 



441. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Piney Grove July 8th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I intend to perform a Tour of duty of eight Months in Congress the 
ensuing year provided I have assurance that my salary shall be regularly 
paid me in hard mony at the place where Congress sits agreeable ( I believe) 
to a resolution of the General Assembly passed in the Spring Session of 
1784. If this cannot be done and warrants are sent me by the Bearer 
Reading Blount I shall endeavor to convert the paper into hard Cash at the 
least possible loss. 2 

2 By " Mr. A. and Mr. F." King evidently means Adams and Jefferson, " F " being 
inadvertently written for J. There are two letters from Jefferson dated Apr. 23, the one 
(Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 725) relating principally to the treaty with Portugal 
but in part to the matter of commerce, the other (tbtd., p. 723; Writings, IV. 209) reporting 
private conversations on the subject of commerce, debts, etc. A joint letter from Adams 
and Jefferson Apr. 25, relating to the same subjects, is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., I. 600. Jef- 
ferson remarks that the treaty with Portugal " will be ready for signature the day after 
tomorrow ". Jay's reply to Jefferson, July 14, is ibid., p. 727, and in Correspondence of Jav. 
III. 206. 

A circular letter from the secretary for foreign affairs to the states, July 6, respecting 
Adams's letter of Mar. 4 and enclosures (see nos. 402, note 3, 406, 407, note 3, 420, ante) 
is pertinent here : 

" Sir, I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency for your Information, a Copy 
of a Letter from the Hon'ble Mr. Adams dated the 4th March last and of the Papers 
mentioned to have been enclosed with it. 

" These Papers are under Consideration and will probably give Occasion to such M 
ures as the Subject of them seems to dictate. In the mean Time it would in my Opinion 
not be expedient to let these Papers get into the public Prints. 

" I have just received Intelligence that a Treaty between the United States and Portugal 
was on the Eve of being concluded ; but that our Negotiations with the Barbary States 
have not a very promising Appearance. It is much to be lamented that the continental 
Treasury is not in a State more adequate to our national Exigencies and that Inattention 
to national Supplies will probably create and continue national Evils." Md. Hist. Soc., 
Red Book, IX. 112; N. C. State Rccs., XVIII. 673. 

[44i] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers: N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 674. 

2 Caswell's reply, July 9, is ibid., p. 678. See also his letters to Blount June 7, 21 
(ibid., p. 646, 657). Blount was in Congress on June 15 (see N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 652, 
653, and no. 407, note 3, ante), but he must have taken his departure before June 21, as he 



July, 1/86 403 

442. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress 

July 11, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
an Act of the United States in Congress assembled passed the 7th of the 
present month. Although the inconveniences which would attend the lay- 
ing the western country into Governments of the extent mentioned in the 
resolution of the 10 Oct 1780 are apparent; yet as this is one of the con- 
ditions contained in the Cession of Virginia, Congress are unwilling to 
deviate from that plan until the state shall revise their Act of cession con- 
formably to the recommendation contained in the enclosed Act. 2 I have 
therefore to request that your excellency will be pleased to lay the Act 
before your Legislature and communicate to me the result of their delibera- 
tion thereon. 

With the greatest respect I have the honor to be Your Excellency's 
Most obedient and Most humble Servt. 

Chas. Thomson 

443. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York July 16th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I have not heard from you for several months past ; the last being dated 
some time previous to your removal to London. 2 not knowing you wo'd 
have sta'd so long I have wrote you by every packet to France, we have 
now present 12. States and hope this will be the case for some time. Soon 
after my arrival here in the winter I suggested to you my apprehensions 
that the condition of the act of cession from Virga. which respected the 
extent of the States to be erected over the ceded territory was an impolitick 
one and that it might be proper to recommend it to the State to alter it. 
A proposition to this effect was submitted to Congress which ultimately 
pass'd advising that it be vested in Congress to divide the sd. territory 
into not less than 3. nor more than 5. States ; 8 but the investigation of the 
subject has open'd the eyes of a part of the Union so as to enable them 

is not recorded as voting that day or subsequently. William Samuel Johnson records in 
his diary under July 6 and 7 that he was "at Congress"; under July 8 (Saturday) "at 
Comm'ee ". 

[442] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 71. 

2 See the Journals, July 7; nos. 315, 373, 394, 407, 417, ante, and no. 443, post; 
also Treat, National Land System, pp. 325-340. 

Under July 10 William Samuel Johnson recorded that he was " at Congress. Din'd 
Presidents"; under the nth, "at Do. Mr. Sturgis arriv'd"; on the 12th, 13th, and 14th 
he was "at Congress", on the 15th "at Comm'ee". 

[443] | Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 140; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, II. 371. 

2 Probably the letter of Jan. 27. See no. 394, ante. Concerning Jefferson's re- 
moval to London see his letter to Jay Mar. 12 (Writings, IV. 198). 

3 See the Journals, July 7 ; also no. 442, ante. 



404 Continental Congress 

to view the subject in a different light from what they have heretofore 
done. They have therefore manifested a desire to rescind every thing 
they have heretofore done in it, particularly to increase the number of 
Inhabitants which sho'd entitle such States to admission into [the] * con- 
federacy and to make it depend on their having one 13th part of the 
free inhabitants of the U S. This with some other restrictions they wish 
to impose on them evinces plainly the policy of these men to be to keep 
them out of the confederacy altogether. I consider this as a dangerous and 
very mischievous kind of [policy] and [calculated to throw them into the 
hands of Britain]. I know not with certainty whether they will be able 
to carry this point but if it is press'd and a probability of being carried we 
shall object to the power of the U S to determine the numbers without 
the consent of the State — it having been left open in the act, does by no 
means put it in the power of the U S. to make such restrictions on this 
head as to defeat the condition altogether. If they do not therefore agree 
with the delegation to leave it upon the ground of April 23d 1784, we shall 
propose a subsequent convention between the parties as to that point, and 
deny the right of the U S. to act otherwise in it. s In my last I advis'd you 
of an [intrigue] on foot under the [management of Jay to occlude the 
Mississippi supported by the delegation] of [Massachusetts]. Since my 
last no further measures have been openly taken in the business yet it is 
not relinquish'd. as yet there hath not been a fair tryal of the sense of 
Congress on the subject. 8 I have a conviction in my own mind that [Jay] 
has managed [this negotiation dishonestly], on the other hand I am per- 
suaded that [the minister here] has no [power] on the subject, yet I am 
firmly persuaded that he has conducted himself in such manner in this 
business as to give him and [his court hopes] which [the sense] of [Con- 
gress] nor his [instructions authorise]. Having been on all the foreign 
business laterly, indeed since you left us, I have had an opportunity of 
knowing [him] well and this communication is founded in circumstances 
this opportunity hath given me. The [Massachusetts delegates] except 
[the president] whose talents and merits have been greatly overrated 
(though preferable greatly in the latter instance to his brethern [sic] ) are 
without exception [the most illiberal] I have ever seen from [that State], 
two of these [men] whose names are [Dane and King] are elected for the 
next year which is my motive for making known to you this circumstance. 
It may possibly be of some service to you, as I shall leave Congress, to 
possess information of this kind. The former is I believe [honest] bill 
[the principles] of the latter I doubt. It has been propos'd and suppo: 
by our State to have a Colonial govt, established over the western districts 
and to cease at the time they shall be admitted into the confederacy; we 
are fully persuaded it will be beneficial to the setters and to the U S and 
especially those to whose frontiers such establishment form'd an immediate 
barrier, this hath not been decided on, and hath only been postpon'd in 

* The article " the " was probably written, but the edge of the manuscript has 
become frayed. Other bracketed words are written in cipher. 
8 See nos. 373, 304, 396, 417, ante, 466, 476, 483, post. 
8 See nos. 402, 408, 425, 437, ante, 463, 466, 477, post. 



July, 1/86 405 

consequence of the inordinate schemes of some men above alluded to as 
to the whole policy of the aff'rs 7 of that country. I am not aware of any 
thing else that I can give you new. In October I shall leave this for Virga. 
and shall settle in Fredericksburg for the purpose of commencing the prac- 
tice of the law. I hope by this you have reached Paris ag'n and at home — 
that you have been well pleasd with your trip. Mr. Madison writes me 
today he is at Phila. and intends in a few days a visit here. 8 

444. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

New York, July 17, 1786. 2 
Sir, 

We had the honor to receive your favor of the 5th, on the 15th inst. 
We immediately communicated its contents to Congress but were at a loss 
how to act under it, as we had already received and transmitted to your 
Excellency the decision of Congress upon the report which had been 
founded on your previous letter, and which we are under the necessity of 
considering as the answer you now require. We are the more confirmed 
in this opinion from our having stated to Congress, after the letter was 
read, that we had already transmitted the decision above alluded to, and 
submitted to them whether the late one contained sufficient matter to induce 
a reconsideration of the subject with different views from those which 
had influenced them on the former occasion, without their taking any 
measures in consequence thereof. We thought proper to require of the 
secretary at war information, what measures he had taken to carry into 
effect the ultimate resolve of congress on the subject, for the purpose of 
knowing in what light he held that resolution, and what the powers given 
by it to the commanding officer, and received in answer the enclosure which 
we have the honor to transmit you. 3 We have to request of your Excel- 
lency to make known to us such measures as with a knowledge of these cir- 
cumstances you shall think proper to advise, and to be assured that we 
shall embrace every measure in our power to carry them into effect. 

7 See the Journals, May 10, July 13. Cf. nos. 408, 425, 437, ante, 447, 457, 459, 460, 
463-467, 470-482, post. 

8 See Monroe to Madison July 15 (Writings of Monroe, I. 139). The letter mainly 
pertains to land purchases. In the close Monroe says, "Grayson is ill of the gout. Car- 
rington much indispos'd and the most important business still undecided on or otherwise 
dispos'd of ". In that letter Monroe speaks of receiving Madison's letter " yesterday " 
(the 14th). If the date of this letter is correct, "today" must be an inadvertence. 

[444] 1 Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 371 (signed by Grayson, Monroe, Carrington, and 
Henry Lee). 

2 From July 17 to 21 (Monday to Friday) William Samuel Johnson regularly re- 
cords that he was "at Congress". Under July 21 he adds, "at Comm'ee Sturgis ", and 
under July 22 (Saturday) "hot at Comm'ee". Jonathan Sturges had on July 19 been 
made a member of a committee on a motion for the reduction of the civil list, of which 
committee Johnson was also a member (see the Journals, p. 418 n.). This was a renewal 
of a committee appointed Mar. 16, itself a renewal of a committee appointed July 20, 1785. 
The committee was again renewed Sept. 18, and once more on Feb. 12, 1787. 

3 Governor Henry's letter of July 5 is in Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 362. See also 
Henry to Col. Josiah Harmar July 21 (ibid., p. 368), and Henry to the speaker of the 
House of Delegates Oct. 16 (ibid., p. 377). Concerning the action of Congress on Gov- 
ernor Henry's earlier letter see no. 417, ante. 



406 Continental Congress 

445. William Cumming to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellency sometime ago condescended to inclose me your Cer- 
tificate for Two hundred and fifty six Pounds on the Treasurer which 
was presented to him, and there being no money it remains yet unpaid. On 
Account of the fatal Depreciation attending our Paper Currency, and the 
disadvantage of making Remittance in Country Produce to the Northward, 
which would sink of the Capital at least 50 per Cent, the Sum to be re- 
ceived would by no means answer the Stile and dignity of a Member of 
Congress. You have had a long acquaintance with me and know perfectly 
well my plain manner of expressing myself, and I am necessitated now 
to say that I depend upon your Excellency sending me a Certficate for the 
Ballance allowed by the State, and a sufficient sum for going and com- 
ing, as I shall set off for New York in a very few days, being perfectly 
satisfied that some of the Members are willing to return, who I suppose 
by this time are poor indeed.' 

I have run through a long spell of sickness, bu[t] am now on the 
recovery, Though obliged to make use of another hand in writing this 
Letter 

My Doctors tell me it is necessary I should breathe a Northern air. 
Ill natured People may say, I want the Public Money to reform my consti- 
tution. But be assured if there is a full representation, and if the honorable 
Members of Congress for this State will say they can do without me I 
shall seek a private retirement and live upon my own money 

Edenton 17 July 1786." 

446. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congu 

July 26th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled touching the Claim 
which under the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union, the win tie 
has on its parts to comply with the formation of the Sovereignty, and the 
duty of the States seasonably to send forward their delegates. 

[445] » Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722; N. C. State Recs.. XVIII. 689. 

2 Governor Caswell transmitted to Cumming the warrant for £256 Dec. ,30, 1785 
(N. C. State Recs., XVII. Mfl >. Sec also his letters to James White Feb. 6 and to Charles 
Johnson Feb. 22 (ibid.. XVI II. 522, 538). The council afterward authorized issuing 
warrants for eight months' service, including two months for going and coming. See Cas- 
well's letters to Bloodworth Mar. 22, 30, and to Johnson Apr. 9 (ibid., pp. 581, 

In the end Cumming did not go forward, but offered his resignation (letter of Aug. .?. no. 
451, post) as did also Charles Johnson (letter of Oct. 28, N. C. Sate Recs., XVIII. 773). 

3 July 17 to 20 William Samuel Johnson was "at Congress". Under the 21ft 
Johnson records. ". . . . at Congress .... at Comm'ee Sturgis . . . .". Under the ad, 
" hot at Comm'ee ....". 

[446] l Copied from the original (to Connecticut), then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia ; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 76. 



July, 1/86 407 

I have only to request that your Excellency will be pleased to communi- 
cate it to the Legislature of your State. 2 

447. Rufus King to James Monroe. 1 

Sunday 30 July 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

I called at your house last evening to mention that in a conversation 
with Mr. Pettit on the subject, on which we met Mr. Jay some weeks since 
at Mr. Alsop's, we coincided in Opinion that the committee could do noth- 
ing preferable to reporting that they be discharged, the business referred 
to a committee of the Whole house, and that Mr. Jay be directed to attend. 

I wish your Opinion of the propriety of such a Report, 2 

448. William Samuel Johnson to Richard Jackson. 1 

N York 30th July 1786. 
D'r S'r, 

I some time ago received two Letters from you one recomm[endin]g 
Mr. A(Ansty) 2 to my Attention, the other relating to yr. own and my 
affairs for both which I return you thanks. Mr. A. is a very worthy and 
agreable young Gentleman, and I am happy in the honour of his Acquain- 
t[anc]e. He is now assiduously engaged in the objects of his Mission, 
and I doubt not will do everything that depends on him to accomplish them 

2 This letter was sent to all the states except New Hampshire, Delaware, and 
South Carolina. The letter to New Hampshire (ibid.) contained, as an initial paragraph, 
the following: " Since writing my letter of the 17, I have received from Mr. J. Pearson 
and communicated to Congress the list mentioned in your Excellency's letter of the 7." 
President Sullivan's letter of July 7 was in response to Thomson's letter of Feb. 28 (no. 
338, ante). He transmitted an act of June relative to officers, soldiers, and seamen, and 
referred to a list of invalids on the New Hampshire pension roll. That of Joseph Pearson 
(July 10) was merely to transmit the list of invalids which was to have accompanied 
Sullivan's letter. The letters are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 64, ff. 276, 280. The letter to 
Delaware contained this additional clause, "and just beg leave to observe that your state 
still continues unrepresented" (Letter-Book, p. 77). The letter to South Carolina (ibid.) 
acknowledged the governor's letter of July 1, and also enclosed the act of Congress July 24 
relative to the sloop Chester, requesting its publication in the newspapers of the state. 
Governor Moultrie's letter was particularly in response to Thomson's letter of June I 
respecting representation. The governor presumed that Huger and Parker had meanwhile 
arrived to take their seats and mentioned that John Bull had taken his departure for the 
same purpose. He also transmitted thirteen copies of the laws passed at the last session 
of the legislature. 

The act referred to in the principal paragraph of the secretary's letter was that of 
July 14, which appears to have had its origin in a motion Apr. 17, " To report the power 
which Congress may rightfully exercise to compel the attendance of the members ". A 
report was brought in on June 12 and appears to have been debated and amended during 
the next three clays. See the editorial note in the Journals, p. 338 n. 

[447] l Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
II. 373- 

2 The subject under consideration by the committee was the Mississippi problem. 
See nos. 402, 408, 425, 437, 443, ante. The report to Congress, Aug. 1, was in accord with 
King's suggestion, and the secretary for foreign affairs was ordered to attend Aug. 3. 
Thomson's notification to Jay, Aug. 1, is in Papers Cont. Cong, no. 55, f. 319, and in the 
Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 80. See further the Journals, Aug. 10 ; also nos. 459, 463, 499, 
post. 

[448] x Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers (draft). 

2 "Ansty " is inserted above the line, evidently in explanation of the initial "A," 
but that initial is not erased. Concerning John Anstey see nos. 372, 386, 387, ante. 



408 Continental Congress 

in the most satisfactory and effectual Manner, but I confess it appears to 
me to be an Herculian Labour in which he is engaged and equally difficult 

and dubious in its execution 

As to public affairs we have little worthy yr. Notice. We are Negotiat- 
ing affairs with the Indians to preserve peace on our Borders — making 
Purchass's of them — Surveying our Western Territories and preparing 
to sell the vacant Lands there in satisfaction of our Domestic Debt, 
which we hope to sink chiefly if not entirely in that way. Our foreign 
Debt is attended with more difficulty. The States exhausted by the Ex- 
pences of the War and their Trade being in an Embarrassed state are 
neither so able and not so well disposed as we could wish to make the 
necessary exertions to supply Cong's with the means of Discharging it 
and satisfying the Interest in the mean time. These Difficulties neverthe- 
less we hope to surmount, and by Degrees to place our affairs upon an 
agreeable footing. Some Bickerings have arisen with respect to our East'n 
Bound'y at St. Croix, 8 and we have a 4 dispute with Spain relative to the 
Navig'n of the Missassippi and our South'n Limitts, but we have no doubt 
those matters may be settled amicably as a small extent of country either 
way is of very little conseq[uenc]e to us who perhaps have too much 
already. We have no object but to Cultivate Peace with all Mankind, our 
situation with respect to our North'n Posts you are well acquainted 
with. 5 .... 

449. Charles Pettit to the Vice President of Pennsylvania 

(Charles Biddle). 1 

New York, 2d August, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

The requisition for the year 1786, has this day been passed in Com; 
so nearly in the form and on the princples contained in the printed copy of 
the Draught I sent you some time since, that I shall not now trouble v< >u 
with the mention of the little alterations that have been made, especially 
as we are yet sitting and in debate of other matters. 

I will, however, mention some attempts we made (tho' unsuccessfully 
and with very little support from any other State) to obtain some essential 
alterations in the Estimate, and of course in the sixm to be required For 
this purpose I send you another copy as the shortest mode of explaining 
what I mean. The Requisition is for money for the service of the year 
1786. we therefore moved to strike out the article marked A, as relating 
to a future year, as providing for a second years Int. on the foreign 
Debt, when but one years Int. is provided for on the Domestic Debt, tho" 

8 See no. 460, note 5, tost. 

4 The indefinite article "a" is written above "some", but the latter word is 
not erased. 

6 This letter was written on Sunday, and Johnson as usual attended St. Paul's. 
His diary for the preceding week is : " 23d Hot St. Pauls . . . ; 24th Cool at Congress 
Din'd Presidents . . . .; 25th .... at Congress. ... at ( Srurgis. . . 

.... at Congress. Din'd Presidents . . . . ; 27th ... at Congress . . . : 28th .... at 
Congress . . . . ; 29th .... at Comm'ee . . . 
[449? Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 37. 



August, 1786 400 

the latter was before, one years Provisions behind the former; and be- 
cause it was beginning a Provision for the Payment of the Principal of 
the Foreign Debt, even before it becomes due, without holding out any 
intention of a Provision for any part of the Domestic Debt, which has 
been long due ; and that this (unnecessary at present,) attempt to anticipate 
payments, which we have heretofore rested on the Revenue System, recom- 
mended by the Act of April, 1783, would be considered as contemplat- 
ing the relinquishment of that system on the Establishment, which we sup- 
pose the public credit so much depends, and that this Idea would have a 
great tendency to defeat the Establishment of that system now so nearly 
matured. 

This being denied, we moved to double the article marked B, in order to 
make a Provision for the Domestic Debt, proportioned to that made for 
the Foreign ; this was also denied. We therefore thought it our duty to 
oppose the general question on the Requisition as it stands; but it was 
carried by 9 or 10 States. 

I am streigtened for time and can say no more at the present moment. 
This may serve as information to Council, though it does not go in official 
form. 2 

450. James Manning to Samuel Jones. 1 
Dear sir: New York, 3d of August 1786. 

.... If Business of the highest Consequence were not now pending 
before Congress, Business too, that relates immediately to that good land 
from which you recently came; and Business which I am not at liberty 
to communicate; and business which I am bound to attend, I say if these 
were not facts I should with Pleasure wait on you at Pennepack. But 
situated as I am, I heartily wish to see you at New York on Wednesday 
next if possible. The reason why I wish this is the important business 

2 The requisition for 1786 had its immediate origin, in a report of the board of 
treasury June 22 and a further report of June 29 {Journals, June 27, July 3). The latter 
report was referred back to the board, whose report in consequence, specifically upon the 
Pennsylvania phase of the matter, was taken into consideration July 25 (see also the 
Journals, July 19, p. 420 n.). Meanwhile a committee had been appointed July 6 on the 
board's report of June 29, but had been discharged July 24 {Journals, pp. 389 n., 430 n.). 
On July 27 a committee report on the New York impost act came up (see the Journals, 
May 12, June 16, and the treasury report of June 22 above referred to), whereupon a 
resolve was adopted bearing upon both the Pennsylvania and the New York cases and a 
committee appointed to draft an ordinance on the subject. On the same day the board of 
treasury reported upon a phase of the question involving South Carolina (see also the 
Journals, July 19, Aug. I, 2, Oct. 10). On Aug. 1 Congress resumed consideration of the 
requisition, which, after further efforts by South Carolina and Pennsylvania for amend- 
ment, was adopted Aug. 2. The motion of Pettit and Bayard Aug. 2 (p. 461) is evi- 
dently that here mentioned as " to strike out the articje marked A ". Their second motion, 
" to double the article marked B ", is doubtless that recorded in the Journals under Aug. 1 
(p- 455)- The text of the requisition printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 38-41, does not 
have the marks "A" and " B ". On Aug. 9 the committee of July 27, mentioned above, 
proposed sending a committee of Congress to confer with the legislature of Pennsylvania. 
A resolution to this effect was adopted Aug. 11, and at the same time an earnest recom- 
mendation to New York. See further the Journals, Aug. 14 (pp. 515, 518 n.), 16 (p. 524), 
23 (P- 554) : also nos. 452, 459, 466, 488 (note 3), post. With regard to the New York 
matter see nos. 401, 410, ante, 469, 485, 488, post. 
[450] 1 Brown University Library, Manning Papers. 



410 Continental Congress 

which I referred to, comes on the next day, on Thirsday ; and from what 
I can conjecture, I expect Rhode Island will probably have a casting voice 
on that subject. As you are interested in Kentucky, I wish much to see 
you before that question is decided. Should it not be in your power to 
arrive here by Wednesday afternoon, in the right of the State, I can have 
it postponed one day. 2 .... 

451. William Cumming to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Dear Sir Edenton, 3rd August, 1786. 

By my last of a late date I signified to your Excellency my intention 
of shortly proceeding to New York, but having a Conversation with my 
Physicians they tell me my Constitution is so weak and my nerves too 
debilitated to attempt to undertake that Journey either by land or water. 
which has induced me to desist from the undertaking this year. This 
resolution is greatly Strengthened by the information I received from 
Dr. Williamson that only three Members are to attend at a time, and that 
the Gentlemen who attended in April may Continue till October, so that 
it does not seem of Consequence for me to go. No person more willingly 
dedicated his time to the public Service than myself, but as my attendance 
will be accompanied with great trouble and Expence to me and no Utility 
to the State, I humbly request your Excellency, with great Acknowledg- 
ments to the Public, to accept of my resignation of a Seat in Congress, 
and that you will condescend to take my resignation from this day. 

I have the honor to be, With the greatest Sincerity, D'r Sir, 

Your very Obedient Servant, 

Will. Cumming. 

This is a Copy of a Letter dated the 3rd Inst. The Mail being stolen 
out of the Office is the reason of a Copy. Your Excellency's consideration 
of an Answer will be very Acceptable. W. C. 

452. Charles Pettit to the Governor of Pennsylvania 
(Benjamin Franklin). 1 

<-.. New York 4U1 August 1786. 

In a joint Letter which Col. Bayard and myself did ourselves the honour 
to address to your Excellency the 26th of last Month, 2 we proposed at 

2 The business assigned for consideration on Thursday, Aug. 10, was that per- 
taining to the navigation of the Mississippi. See the Journals, Aug. 1, 3, 10, 17-23, 28-30. 
Cf. nos. 402, 408, 425, 443, 447, ante, 459, 499, post. For some account of the Reverend 
Samuel Jones (1735-1814J, to whom this letter was addressed, see Guild, Early History 
of Brown University, p. 321 and passim. An omitted passage in this letter suggests that 
the "good land" referred to was Kentucky. Subsequent letters from Manning to Jones 
(Aug. 23, Oct. 25) are likewise concerned with Kentucky. See also Guild, op. at., pp. 403, 
405-406, 415. 
UvYN. C. State Recs., XVIII. 707. 
[45a] 1 Chicago Hist. Soc., Gunthcr Coll.; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 41. 

2 The letter of Pettit and Bayard July 26 has not been found. See however no. 449, 
ante. 



August, 1786 411 

a future time to state to your Excellency the Heads of the Arguments 
used in the Debate on the Report of the Board of Treasury recommending 
a Continuation of the Issuing of Indents of Interest in Pennsylvania. 
That Statement I have the Honour to transmit herewith. 3 

Yesterday a Requisition on the States for Supplies for the Year 1786, 
was agreed to in Congress; it is now on the Press and will be officially 
transmitted to the States by the Secretary. 4 

[Following is the statement enclosed, taken from Pa. Arch., first ser., 
XL 42-45 :] 

The Report of the Board of Treasury tendering a Resolve that they " be 
authorized and directed to give Orders for the Continuation of the Issue of 
Indents of Interest in the State of Pennsylvania agreeably to the Requisition 
of the 27th of September last " etc., being read, it was moved that the same 
be referred to the Board to take order. 

This was thought to be the best mode of disposing of the Business, as it 
would restore the matter to the original Footing on which it stood on the first 
act of the Board acknowledging the compliance of the State with the Requisi- 
tion and directing the Payment of Interest accordingly, without placing on the 
Journals any Record of the versatile Conduct which had taken Place. And as 
the Proviso in the proposed Resolution left the Claim of the State, as to the 
86,658 Dollars, undecided upon, and it was thence supposed that little or no 
opposition would be made to the motion, it was thought best not to invite it by 
stating arguments in favour of the motion unless they should be rendered 
necessary in answer to objections. 

The motion was objected to as unreasonable, unjust and impolitic. 

Unreasonable, 1st, Because from the words of the Requisition of the 27 and 
28th of April, 1784, it was plain that the one fourth to be discounted in Cer- 
tificates of Interest related only to one fourth of the Balance then remaining 
unpaid of the four millions, whereas the Discount demanded by the State was 
one fourth of their whole Quota of the four Millions. 2dly, Because no other 
State had made a like Demand. 3dly, Because the present debilitated State of 
the Finances would not admit of such a Deduction from the Specie Claims of 
the United States. 

Unjust, 1st, Because it was well known that the Sums which had been paid 
by the several States on account of the eight million Requisition previous to 
the Statement accompanying the Requisition of 1784, had been consumed in 
the Service of former years, and that three fourths of the Balance remaining 
of the moiety of the eight millions, had been relied upon in Specie, by the 
assent and approbation of all the States, Pennsylvania included. 2dly, That 
opening the Loan office in Pennsylvania would let loose a Flood of Facilities 
to inundate the other States, whereby the Citizens of Pennsylvania would 
derive a Benefit to which they were not intitled till they should have fully 
complied with the Requisition. 

Impolitic — 1st, Because if this Discount were allowed to Pennsylvania, it 
must of course be allowed to other States in the same Proportion, which would 
occasion a Deduction of between three and four hundred thousand dollars 

3 See the report of the board of treasury, in the Journals, July 25, and the motion 
of Petlit and Bayard thereon. 

4 If this letter is correctly dated, " yesterday " is an error. The requisition was 
adopted Aug. 2. It was transmitted to the states by Secretary Thomson Aug. 12 (no. 462, 
post). Cf. nos. 459, 465, post. 

33 



412 Continental Congress 

from the Sum in Specie paid into or demandable by the federal Treasury on 
that Requisition. 

2dly, That the meaning of Congress as to this Point, in the Act of April 

1784, being plain, and not objected to at any Time since, but by Pennsylvania, 
it became Congress to persist in the Measure if it were only to avoid the Charge 
of versatility ; but when it was considered that the yielding of this Point to 
Pennsylvania necessarily involved the admission of the like claim from other 
States, the Circumstances of the Treasury forbid any Relaxation. 

3dly, If the State should now gain her Point in getting her Payments 
acknowledged and entered in the way she was aiming at, it would not be in the 
Power of Congress hereafter to control the adjustment of the Payments under 
the Requisition of 1784 as they ought to be adjusted — That the payment in 
Facilities was a desireable object to the State, and if Congress were firm on 
this Occasion, the State would comply with the Specie Payment in order to 
avail herself of the Payments in Facilities. 

It was answered on the part of Pennsylvania. 

That the claim of the State to have the 86,658 Dols. placed to the account of 
Facilities, was certainly reasonable, because it was founded in the highest 
Equity, and therefore it would be good Policy to admit it. That to reject it 
would in fact be an act of ill policy as well as Injustice : it would be punishing 
the most forward State in the Union in her Payments, merely for her forward- 
ness, and rewarding the more backward States for their Delinquency. 

But that as the Decision of this Point was expressly waved by the pro- 
posed Resolution, it was not necessary now to go into the Argument upon it ; 
but to consider the Purport and Effect of the Resolution in other Respects, 
leaving this Point to be discussed hereafter, and if this resolution should be 
agreed to, the Discussion might probably be made with good Temper and an 
accommodating Disposition ; but if otherwise, Disgust and Sourness might 
take place which might be highly injurious to public measures. That Pennsyl- 
vania had hitherto been among the foremost of the States in acceding to and 
promoting federal Measures, and had decidedly led the way in Contributions 
of Money : it was the wish of her Citizens that she should continue to do so : — 
but they had some knowledge of their Rights, and were not insensible to 
Indignities. They felt the late order for suspending the operations in the Loan 
Office as indelicate as well as unjust. Even admitting that the act of March 
last might be so construed as to fall short of a full compliance with the Requisi- 
tion of September 1785, yet (as was now admitted by the Board of Treasury 
themselves) it might be so construed as to make a full Provision for that 
Requisition ; and having been at first so construed and acted upon, the mode 
taken to bring the State into a Compliance which they deemed unjust, savoured 
too much of Indelicacy and Disrespect to have a conciliatory Effect, but might 
and probably would irritate and offend if not corrected as early as possible. 

That it was evident from every circumstance that the Legislature intended, 
by their Act of March last, a full compliance with the Requisition of Sept'r 

1785, whatever might be their view as to former Requisitions. It was a 
clearly evident that the Deficiency charged on the State related entirely to a 
former Requisition, and ought not to be considered as at all affecting the latter : 
it was therefore by a disingenuous and illiberal Construction of the Act of 
Assembly, that it was declared to be an insufficient compliance with the requisi- 
tion which was its immediate object ; and the insisting on that Construction 
betrayed a Disposition towards the State which her comparative merit as a 
member of the Union was far from deserving. That the Resolution under 
Consideration would leave the Dispute concerning the 86,658 Dollars on fair 



August, 1/86 413 

and Proper Ground for future Discussion without injury to either side of the 
Question If therefore the Proposition should be rejected, on what motive 
could it be accounted for that would not savour more of that narrow vindictive 
Spirit which too often attends the Bickerings of Individuals, than of that 
liberality and candour which should always mark the Conduct of States. 

That the Board of Treasury had, by their Report, manifested a Desire to 
correct the Error they had committed ; but having officially communicated the 
obnoxious measure to Congress, they considered an Order of the House nec- 
essary to enable them to proceed in it. The matter therefore now rested with 
Congress, and how far it would be proper to turn into Coolness and Disgust 
the federal ardor of a State which had been, and might be continued to be, a 
liberally yielding Source of Supplies, and that too on a mere punctilio which 
had been abandoned by the Board who brought it into View, must be sub- 
mitted to their wisdom and Prudence. 

Note. — These arguments were not delivered in the order in which they are 
here arranged, but were brought forth in a course of Answers, Replies, Re- 
joinders, etc., and are now stated from memory in such order as to convey the 
Intention, of the Speakers with tolerable Precision. 

By Mr. Smith's Return there appears to be, of the ths of the new Emis- 
sions, at the Disposal of the United States, vizt. 

At Liberty by the Rect. of old Emissions from the State of "]_ ,- 
Pennsylvania, to the of Augt. 1786 J 5 ^°°/ 49 

Will be at Liberty when the States shall have paid in the Balance loo 
of old Emissions J ' ™ 5 

86,447 
Of which there remains due to the State on acct. of the 390,000! r, ( - 
Dollars exchanged for the State Emissions J ' 



♦Balance remaining at the Disposal of the U. S. 7>8°5 

It is proposed that this 7,805 Dollars shall be immediately at the Disposal 
of the United States, on Condition that they neither claim nor issue any part 
of the above mentioned 78,642 Dollars. 

And as the said sum of 78,642 Dollars has been paid over to the State in 
Bills of the State of 1781 — that the said Bills of 1781 be repaid to the U. States, 
or debited to the State of Pennsa. in the general account at the f option of the 
U. States, they paying to the State of Pennsa. the like Sum of 78,642 Dollars 
in the new Emission money of 1780. 
Notes added since. 

* Note. — This Balance is supposed to arise from some of the warrants not 
being fully paid which were estimated in the 208,000 Dollars supposed to be 
appropriated before the negotiation of the 390,000 Dols. 

f This option was proposed in order to soften Feelings, and was so under- 
stood at the Time. But it was nevertheless expected, and so understood also, 
that the option would be decided according to the Desire of the State. 

453. Pierse Long to John Langdon. 1 

n , ~. Newyork August 6th 1786. 

I do myself the hon'r to enclose you a news paper for your perusal, 
which contains the price current of Merchandize in this City. 

I have always flatter'd myself that we should before this have been at 

[453] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



414 Continental Congress 

peace with the Barbary powers, but to my sorrow I am disappointed. 
Congress have received letters from Mr. Randal, assistant to Mr. Lamb, 
giving an acct. of their return to Spain from Algiers, without effecting 
the purpose of their Mission. 2 the truth is their demands are so extravi- 
gant, and the finances of the United States are so deranged that it cannot 
be obtained in their present condition. I am not certain that Spain has 
concluded a peace with them as yet, and have my doubts whether they 
will or not. The t[r]uce ceased in the spring, and we have news paper 
accts. of depredations being committed on their Trade since that Time. 
We have undoubted advice from England, that the people of that country, 
are in general very unfavourably disposed towards us, and the language 
wch. prevails there is that we have no right neither will they consent to 
form any commercial system with us and boast that they will be our 
carriers, and enjoy all the advantages which would (was a commercial 
treaty concluded on) result to us. 

A treaty of commerce between the United States and Portugal, I hope 
will soon arive to be ratifyed as it was finished on our part in the month 
of April.'' the trade to that country has been favorable to us in former 
times. I hope it will again revive, and that some of our citizens may 
derive such advantages theirby, as will in some measure compensate for 
former losses — (I had forgot the algerines are yet in the way, I should 
be content if no earthly power can remove them that they might be 
removed from the earth, by the powers above). 

I have said we have as yet had no official account of a peace being 
concluded between spain and algeirs, but if it is, in all probability portugal 
and the other nations at war with them will endeavour to conclude one 
also, in which case the United States will be their single object, if so 
what is to hinder their destroying our Trade in the proper season, even 
on our own coast, is their no way that can be found out, to begin a 
navy, however I have got hold of a subject that requires in the execution 
theirof a great deal of what we have none of — I'izt. Cash — therefore 
conclude. 

2 See nos. 315, 329, 364, 374, 380, 381, 388, 395. ™*e, 454-457. 440 (note 2), 460, 
471, post. Secretary Jay transmitted to Congress Aug. 2 several letters, with enclosu 
respecting Barbary affairs. That of May 12 is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. r.n. 
the principal' enclosures at pp. 734-748 (from Barclay, Lamb, and Carmichael) ; that of 
May 23 is ibid., p. 750; that of May 27 is ibid., p. 754; the principal enclosure, namely, the 
letter from Randall May 14. is at p. 755 ; that of May 31 is ibid., p. 703. See also Jefferson 
to Adami May II. July 11 {ibid., pp. 731, 791), and to Jay July 8 (ibid., p. 7(>o, printed 
"April 8") ; also Lamb to Jefferson May 20 (ibid., p. 772), and Barclay to Adams and 
Jefferson May 23 (ibid., p. 771 ). Jay's reply to Jefferson Aug. 18 is ibid., p. 765. Adams 
likewise transmitted, June 6, the several letters pertaining to the Barbary negotiations 
(ibid., II. 666), and Jay replied to this and other letters Aug. 19 (ibid., p. 667). Tha 
letter to Jefferson is also in Correspondence of Jay, III. no. In the letter to Adami 
remarks: "The situation in which the want of an adequate representation had, for many 
months, placed Congress, put it out of their power to decide on several of my rep 
some of which were founded on your litters. These delays oblige me to leave those letters 
unanswered, and to leave you without instructions on points on which I think you should 

be furnished with the sentiments of Congress I am mortified to write yon such 

letters, but that must be the case until Congress enable me to write more particularly and 
satisfactorily. You want answers to many questions, and, though I am not at a In- 
form a judgment what they should be, yet my private sentiments and those of Congress may 
not coincide." Like sentiments were expressed in the letter to Jefferson. 

8 See no. 440, note 2, ante. 



August, 1786 415 

454. Pierse Long to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

New York August 6th, 1786. 
Sir, 

In conformity to your Excell'ys desire I have collected the best 
information in my power on the subject of paper money, which is as 
follows 2 

Mr. Lamb and Mr. Randall are returned from Algiers to Spain Con- 
gress have letters from the latter, as also from their Ministers in Europe 
by which I am sorry to say, that at present their is no prospect of a peace 
being brought about between the United States and these barbarians. Mr. 
Barclay was at Merocco when these despatches left Europe, but whether 
he will be successful is very uncertain. I have no doubt but a General 
peace might be effected with all those powers were our finances not so 
deranged as they are. at this time I have nothing further to add, 3 

455. Theodore Sedgwick to Caleb Strong. 1 

New York 6 August, 1786. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . } Our commissioners are returned from the mediterranian with- 
out effecting anything, no reasonable hope of any other event could have 
been formed. The interest of every commercial and maritime power in 
europe opposes ours as related to this object, and Great Britain, which is 
in strict friendship with the pirates would go great lengths in gratifying 
her malice and jealousy to defeat our purpose, congress have not yet 
come to any ultimate decision on this subject. I have formed my opinion 
as to policy in the object to be persued, but this must not at present be put 
on paper. 3 

No reasonable expectations of advantage can be formed from the com- 
mercial convention. 4 The first proposers designed none, the measure was 
originally brought forward with an intention of defeating the enlarge- 
ment of the powers of Congress. Of this I have the most decisive evidence. 
It well becomes the eastern and middle States, who are in interest one, 
seriously to consider what advantages result to them from their connection 
with the Southern States. They can give us nothing, as an equivalent for 
the protection which they derive from us but a participation in their 
commerce. This they deny to us. Should their conduct continue the same, 
and I think there is not any prospect of an alteration, an attempt to per- 

[454] * N. H. Arch., Revolution, X. 282; Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., 
Council Corr., 1782- 1788. 

2 Long summarizes the courses pursued by Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania, 
North Carolina, and South Carolina with regard to paper money. 

3 Cf. no. 453, note 2, ante. 
[455] x Am. Hist. Rev., IV. 328. 

2 Some remarks respecting the troubles in Massachusetts are here omitted. 

3 See no. 453, note 2, ante. 

* The proposed convention at Annapolis. Cf. nos. 388, 394, 422, ante, 468, 503, 512, 
595> 596, post. See also Stephen Higginson to John Adams, July — , 1786, in Am. Hist. 
Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, vol. I., p. 733. With regard to increasing the powers of 
Congress see no. 434, note 3, ante, and nos. 471, 497, post. 



416 Continental Congress 

petuate our connection with them, which at last too will be found in- 
effectual, will sacrafice everything to a meer chimera. Even the appearance 
of a union cannot in the way we now are long be preserved. It becomes 
us seriously to contemplate a substitute; for if we do not controul events 
we shall be miserably controuled by them. No other substitute can be 
devised than that of contracting the limits of the confederacy to such as 
are natural and reasonable, and within those limits instead of a nominal 
to institute a real, and an efficient government. 

This language will appear to you I am affraid as evidence of pusa- 
lanimity, but I do not think that in politics I am timid. 5 

We have made another requisition which includes such part of the 
principal of the foreign debt as will become payable next year. 6 To this 
measure I gave my assent not from any apprehension that it would pro- 
duce any considerable effect, but because I wish congress may do her 
duty. Several of the States have never passed any acts in persuance of 
the requisition of 84, not half on that of last year and still less is to be 
expected from the present. 

It will be unnecessary to inform you that this letter is wrote with gnat 
haste and in that confidence of your friendship which I have long flattered 
myself I was so happy as to possess. Some matters of very great 
importance but with regard to which secrecy at present is enjoined will 
detain me here a little longer. 7 As soon as these are completed which 1 
hope will be the case in 8 or 10 days I shall again return to the vale of 
private life. There confiding in the wisdom of Doctor Holten that all 
things will be happily adjusted I will seek contentment. Compts. I pray 
you to Mrs. S. 

456. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

£. New York Augt. 7th 1786. 

We herewith transmit You an Account of the Algerine naval Force 
as received by Congress, and are sorry to inform You that the Attempts 
of Congress to negotiate a Peace with the Algerines have proved un- 
successful. 2 

The Tobacco Contract with Mr. Morris and the Papers relative thereto 
were sent You by Colo. Harrison on Friday last. 3 

8 Cf. no. 463, post. 

6 See the Journals, Aug. 2; also nos. 449, 452, ante. Rufus King wrote to (i 
Aug. 5: "Congress on Wednesday passed a requisition for supplies — I enclose a copy; 
it is indeed but a copy of the Requisition of the last year. How far the States can or will 
comply with this requisition God only knows." Life of King, I. 188. 

7 The allusion is to the Mississippi question. See nos 

ante, 457, 459, 460, 463-482, post. Under Aug. 5 (Saturday) William Samoa Johnson re- 
corded in his diary, Hot at Comm'ee Din'd Gardoquis ". Each preceding day <>f the week 
he was " at Congress ", and on Friday, Aug. 4, he was also " at Comm'ee . 

[456] 1 M. Hist. Soc., box, 1786 (signed by Henry, Hindman, Harrison, and Ramsey). 
2 See no. 453, note 2, ante. John Lamb, in his letter to Jefferson May 20 (Dipt. 
Corr. U. S, A., 1783-178Q, I. 772) has a brief note on the Algerine navy, adding that "a 
more particular account is scut " : hut the latter account has not been located. 

8 See no. 422, note 3, ante. The papers here referred to were transmitted by Jeffer- 
son with his letters of May 27 and 31, in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 756-765. The 



August, 1/86 417 

457. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

My dear G'nl, New York ' 7 th Au S ust > 86 " 

.... The Mississippi business is very important and full of difficulty. 
In the debilitated condition of the foederal government, it is unwise to 
wish the offence of any part of the empire, unless to attain great good. 
My mind has no doubt of the extensive good consequences that would 
result to the Union from a commercial connextion with Spain, and I am 
also clear, that in agreeing to the occlusion of the navigation of the 
Mississippi, we give in fact nothing, for the moment our western country 
becomes populous and capable, they will seize by force what may have 
been yeelded by treaty. Till that period, the river cannot be used but by 
permission of Spain, whose exclusive system of policy, never will grant 
such permission. Then to be sure, we only give, what we cannot use. But 
the source of all the evils which press these states is the inefficiency of 
the foederal government. This cannot be altered and remedied but by 
consent of the states. 

Already in every state the amplification of the powers of the Union 
have too many enemys. Should therefore a treaty take place between 
Congress and Spain occluding for a term the navigation of the Mississippi, 
in return for advantages very great, but not so great to the whole as to a 
part, I apprehend it would give such a text for popular declaimers, that 
the great object viz, bracing the foederal government may be thwarted, 
and thus in pursuing a lesser, we loose a greater good. 2 

I forwarded by the last post for public information some intelligence 
lately received from Mr. Jefferson; and I have also sent an extract of a 
letter from Mr. Randall from Algiers. 3 .... 

letter of May 27 is also in Jefferson's Writings, IV. 230. Jay sent these letters and en- 
closures to Congress Aug. 2, together with letters pertaining to the Barbary negotiations 
(see no. 453, note 2, ante), and on Aug. 6 the injunction of secrecy was taken off the 
letter and accompanying papers, so far as they related to the tobacco contract (Journals, 
pp. 467 n., 488 n.). On Aug. 28 Jay transmitted to the states an extract of Jefferson's 
letter of May 27, with copies of the contract between the Farmers General and Robert 
Morris (signed at Paris Jan. 11, 1785, and at Philadelphia Apr. 10, 1785) and a letter 
from Vergennes, May 30, 1786, pertaining thereto. In his circular letter to the states Jay 
remarked : " These papers contain some matters of Information which should be known ; 
but it appears to me that this had better be done without the intervention of the Press, 
for if our Ministers should find that their letters and communications are sometimes pub- 
lished in newspapers when they do not expect it they would naturally observe afterwards, 
a degree of reserve and caution, which would render their Correspondence much less useful, 
than while unconstrained by such apprehensions." N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 722; en- 
closures at pp. 627-634. 

[457] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 137- 

2 Cf. nos. 402, 408, 425, 443, 447, ante, 459, 463-475. 477-482, post. Lee is replying 
to Washington's letter of July 26 (Writings, ed. Sparks, IX. 180). James Madison wrote 
to Ambrose Madison from New York Aug. 7 : " Nothing can bear a worse aspect than 
our federal affairs as viewed from this position. No money comes into the public treasury, 
trade is on a wretched footing, and the States are running mad after paper Money, which 
among other evils disables them from all contributions of specie for paying the public 
debts, particularly the foreign one. In Rhode Island a large sum has been struck and made 
a tender, and a severe penalty imposed on any attempt to discriminate between it and 
coin. The consequence is that provisions are witheld from the Market, the shops shut up — 
a general distress and tumultuous meetings. The prices of produce seem to be lower here 
than in Philada. Tobo. is no exception to this remark." Copied from the original, then in 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

3 See no. 453, note 2, ante. 



418 Continental Congress 

458. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnso- 

Wethersfield, August 9, 1786. 
My Dear Freind, 

.... We hear you have again made out a Requisition upon the States 
and are preparing an Address to accompany it. I conjecture, your hopes 
must far exceed your Faith, or your faith would remove mountains. Pray 
speak plain Language to the states, paint your Situation and your feelings 
without Disguise, and let them know you are or will soon be, the most 
contemptible political Body which ever conven'd. 2 

The States have sufficient Ability to do great things, we are fast recover- 
ing from the fatigue of the Warr, and like a young Man who by sleep 
shakes off his Weariness, we are by two or three years quiet, so far 
recover'd as to run into every kind of Luxury and Extravagance and 
not so much by Credit as formerly. New Buildings are erecting in every 
part of the Country, and no striking Marks of penury appear. 

In constant hopes and Expectations that N'w York and Pensylvania 
will so far discover the Precipice on which the united States as a collective 
body stand, by reason of withholding the necessary Means for the preser- 
vation of our Union, I am the more easy, that the States do not comply 
with y'r Requisitions, pleasing myself with the tho'ts, that such Discovery 
will induce such a compliance with the Resolve of C. of April 1783 as will 
cause the general Impost to operate by next Spring. 8 

The Regulation of Trade is as essential a point to be obtain'd as the 
Impost, the former will eventually include the letter and ought to be 
urged with as much pathos. 

The English Prints inform us that our Countryman Mr. Lamb has 
been unsuccessfull in his Legation and has return'd to Europe.* .... 

I know not whether you have as yet receiv'd the Act of Assembly, 
empowering you to make their Cession to Congress of western Territory. 
I intend this week to apply to Col. Wyllys for Information and forward 
it soon, if it has not been sent on. 8 

I wish to know whether Mr. Sturgiss intends to continue in Congress 
after Octr., tis best the State should not fail of Representation at the 
Beginning of the new Year. 6 .... 

[458] * Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 118. 

2 The requisition was adopted Aug. 2, and the board of treasury wmi instructed to 
prepare an address to the states to accompany it. The board reported an address Aug. 3%, 
and Sept. 4 was assigned for its consideration. For its subsequent history see no. 501, note 
3, post. 

8 See no. 459, note 4, post. 

* See no. 453, note 2, ante. 

8 On May 26 Congress had declared itself ready to accept the Connecticut cession 
" whenever the delegates of Connecticut shall be furnished with full powers, and shall 
execute a deed for that purpose". "A draught of a deed" was presented to Con. 
Sept. 12, a committee appointed upon it, and the deed was executed Sept. 14. Cf. m> 
405-407, 425, 427. a»lc. 

8 Johnson was " at Congress " Aug. 7 to 1 1 ; on the 12th he was " at Comm'ee ". 



August, 1/86 419 

459. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

Dear sir, New YorK Augt - IO [II] ' I786 - 2 

We went into a Committee of the Whole yesterday — the subject 3 was 
discuss'd fully by Pinckney and others and the house ultimately came to 
the resolution and reporting that we sit ag'n. Today being the order for 
the report of the Committee, in part upon subject of the impost in its 
relation to Pena. and New York, the order above alluded [to] of going 
into Committee was postpon'd to take up the sd. report. 4 I consider this 
by no means as evidence that the majority are ag'nst Jays propositions, 
on the contrary we have satisfactory documents to believe the 7. States 
are for it. It depends therefore whether it shall be absolutely defeated 
(wh. will be the case provided they have but six States) upon the arrival 
of Wilson and St. Clair and their being in sentiment ag'nst Jay. If this 
shall be the case, may you not discover it in conversation and send them 
up? 5 It was mov'd as we had expected to repeal the ultimatum in his 
instructions. 6 .... 

460. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 

n „. Boston Augt. 11, 1786. 

After a disagreeable passage of 7 days I arrived here last Sunday. 2 
.... as to the Span, treaty and navigation of the Miss. etc. all the 

men I have conversed with appear to have adopted ideas similar to ours. 3 
Several men in Boston by means of Mr. Adams private letters I believe 

know the terms on which we can have peace probably with the Barbary 

[459] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 143. 

2 The date should be Aug. 11, for it was Aug. 10 that Congress, according to the 
order of the day (see the Journals, p. 484 n., and no. 450, ante), went into committee of the 
whole on the Mississippi question, and it was Aug. 11 that the order of the day was 
postponed for consideration of the report on the Pennsylvania and New York matter. 

3 The subject was the negotiation with Gardoqui concerning the Mississippi. Only a 
day or so earlier Madison had been in New York and had discussed the question with 
Monroe (see no. 457, note 2, ante, and note 5, below). 

4 Concerning the action relative to Pennsylvania and New York see nos. 449, 452, 
458, ante, 466, 469, 473, 477, 485, 488, 489, post. 

5 St. Clair appears to have attended Aug. 17, and on the 18th made one of the 
principal speeches in favor of the treaty (see no. 474, post). Wilson did not again attend 
during 1786. If Madison sought to discover their sentiments on the Mississippi business 
he did not mention it in his letters to Monroe. In a letter which be wrote to Monroe 
on his arrival in Philadelphia, though principally upon private affairs, he evidently alludes 
in one passage to the Mississippi affair : " I had some conversation at Princeton with 
Doc'r Witherspoon on the subject which agitates you so much in Cong's. He sees it in 
the proper light, and when an opportunity offers will not withold his ideas from those to 
whom they may be useful. I shall write again in a few days." This letter (Library of 
Congress, Madison Papers, accession 1081, formerly filed with the letters of 1780) is dated 
" Philada. Aug. 12 Friday morning". The " 12" appears to have been inserted after the 
date-line had been written, but if Friday is correct it was Aug. 11. See nos. 463, 466, post. 

6 See nos. 466, 477, post. 

[460] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of C F. Libbie and Company of 
Boston. 

2 Dane's last recorded attendance in Congress is on July 27, and this statement 
would indicate that he left New York on Monday, July 31. The copy obtained of this 
letter is imperfect at several points, including no doubt the date, which is given as Aug. 17. 
King's reply, Aug. 17 (no. 473, post) gives the date as Aug. 11, and other facts are 
conclusive. 

3 See nos. 402, 408, 425, 437, 443, 447, 457, 459, ante, 463-482, post. 



420 Continental Congress 

powers and they do not appear to me to be opinioned that we ought at 
present to buy peace at so dear a rate of faithless nations. 4 

Mr. Adams in a letter to the Governor mentions he has laid the papers 
respecting our Eastern Boundary before the Br. Ministry whence you will 
infer he has received those dispatches sent by Congress. 8 Mr. Lowell and 
Sullivan seem to be of opinion that as N. Y. first proposed an adjust- 
ment of the controversy between her and our State the agents of Mass. 
ought to propose a meeting etc. and they have done nothing as yet. 6 

.... could the choice of delegates come on now I imagine there would 
be no difficulty about [reelecting?] the old members, as the Delegation of 
the State I believe from what has been said in the G. Court and out of 
it stands very well and high in the opinion of the State. 

I am arranging my affairs so as to be in N. Y. by the middle of Sept. 
if possible but I shall I expect find it diff't to come on. I am not in expecta- 
tion of getting anything from the Treas'y for past or future services and 
it is almost impossible to collect any money of individuals, but I shall 
write to you again or Mr. Sedgwick in a few days 

461. James White to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

$j r New-york nth Augt. 1786. 

In answer to the queries you did me the honor to send respecting the 
paper currency of No. Carolina; it is my regret, that having taken my 
Seat in congress, ere the last emission of the money in question, 1 am, 
therefore not so well informed respecting it. as I could wish. The first 
emission, anno 83, was of iooooo£( doll's 8/) 2 the fund, confiscations. 
It depreciated to about 25 pr. Ct. but by the mere operation of moderate 
taxes recovered to an entire credit, or nearly to par, at the time the last 
Money made its appearance. This came out in the same quantity as the 
former. I believe the last sum has sunk to a lower ebb than the other ever 
did. It is a tender by law, and is received very freely — at least, the first, 1 
know, was. 

Wishing to pay the earliest attention to any of your excellency* com- 
mands, I transmit such information as I am at present master of: \l 
soon as I can be answered from No. Carolina, I shall be happy to send a 
more satisfactory account to any further instructions to 

your Excellency's 3 very obedt. and luimb. Servant 

Jam's WHITE 

4 See nos. 453-457 1 on*e. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 8, 21, Sept. 24, Oct. 13, 1785; also nos. 205, 231, 274, ante. 
Adams's letter to Governor Bowdoin. June 2, is in Adams's Works, VIII. 397. See also 
Adams to Jay July 15 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 670), and the Journals, Sept. 
19 (P- 673 n.). 

6 See nos. 205, 216, 271, 300, 315, ante, 549, 551, 554, post. Cf. the Journals, Apr. 17, 
May 15, Sept. 27. 

[461 j 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722; Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. II 
Recs., Council Corr., 1782-1788. 

2 That is, eight shillings to the dollar. For comment upon the various state issues 
of paper money at this time see Madison's letter to Jefferson Aug. 12 (Writings, II. 257). 

8 The original letter contains DO indication of the person addressed; but the 
existence of the transcript among the New Hampshire records shows that the letter 
addressed to President Sullivan. 



August, i/86 421 

462. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

(Circular) Office of the Secretary of Congress 

<-,. August 1 2th, 1786. 

I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
several Acts lately passed by the United States in Congress Assembled. 

1st. A Requisition for the Year 1786. This you will receive from the 
board of treasury, who have it in charge to prepare a letter to accompany 
it, but as it has been published in the Newspapers, I have judged it not 
improper to transmit to Your Excellency an authenticated copy. 2 

2nd. An Ordinance for the regulation of Indian Affairs. 

3rd. An Act fixing the standard of Gold and Silver, the weight and 
value of the money unit, the money account of the United States, and the 
different species of Coins. 

4th. An Act again presenting to the view of North Carolina, South 
Carolina and Georgia, the recommendation of the 6th Sept. 1780. 3 

5th. An order for transmitting the several States lists of the numbers 
names and owners of the Negroes belonging to the Citizens of Each State 
and carried away by the British. 4 

463. James Monroe to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry). 1 

Dear Sir, _ . New York ' Augt I2 ' I786 ' 

I have wished to communicate for sometime since to you an account of 

a transaction here, for your sentiments respecting it, but have declined 

from the want of a cypher, that of the delegation being we fear lost. 2 

[462] 1 Copied from the original (to Delaware), then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. 
Henkels of Philadelphia; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 82; N. C. State 
Recs., XVIII. 716. 

2 The proposed address to the states failed of adoption. See no. 458, note 2, ante. 

3 This paragraph does not appear in the letter to North Carolina, South Carolina, 
and Georgia. Instead a special letter, Aug. 14 (no. 465, post), was sent to those states. 
In those letters accordingly the 5th paragraph below is numbered 4th. 

4 A motion to this effect by Grayson, June 22, was referred to the secretary for 
foreign affairs to take order. However, in a letter to Congress July 3 (Journals, July 5) 
Jay wrote, " I suspect that Congress were not apprized of the Length of this Account ", 
transmitting the account book with his letter. A committee (Pinckney, Grayson, and 
Bloodworth) to whom Jay's letter was referred made a report July 6, but the report was 
not acted on until Aug. 9, and it was only on Oct. 23 that Jay transmitted the lists to the 
states (N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 770; Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 74). A brief description 
of the Pennsylvania list is ibid., p. 75 n. See no. Ill, ante. 

Aug. 12 Thomson also transmitted to General Schuyler the act of Congress Aug. 9 on 
his memorial of Apr. 14, read in Congress Apr. 18. The board of treasury, to whom 
the memorial was referred, made its report May 6 (Journals, May 8), but no action appears 
to have been taken at that time. On July 10 (Journals, July 17) the board reported in 
favor of extending the same allowance to all the commissioners of Indian affairs in the 
Northern department. Action was taken accordingly Aug. 9, when the first-mentioned 
report reappears in the Journals, but not the second. Thomson's letter to Schuyler is in 
N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 2071, and in the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 83. 

[463] l Writings, I. 144. 

2 The cipher used for some time by the Virginia delegates in their official cor- 
respondence, that is, the reading key, is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. See Am. Hist. 
Rev., XXII. 332. 



422 Continental Congress 

The affr. however has come to such a crisis and is of such high importance 
to the U. S. and ours in particular, that I shall risque the communica- 
tion without that cover. Jay, you know, is intrusted with the negotiation 
with the Spn. resident here for the free navigation of the Mississippi and 
the boundaries between Georgia and the Floridas ; his instructions, altho' 
they authorize by implication the formation of a treaty of commerce, con- 
fine him expressly with respect to those points, and prohibit his entering 
into any engagement whatever wh. shall not stipulate them in our favor. 
Upon my arrival here in Deer, last (having been previously well acquainted 
with Mr. Jay) in conversation with him I found he had agreed with 
Gardoqui to postpone the subject of the Mississippi etc., in the first in- 
stance and to take up that of a commerc. treaty ; that in this they had gone 
so far as that Mr. Jay was possessed of the principles on wh. he wo'd 
agree to make it, upon condition on our part, of a forbearance of the use 
of the Mississippi for 25 or 30 years. I soon found in short that Mr. Jay 
was desirous of occluding the Mississippi and of making what he term'd 
advantageous terms in the treaty of commerce the means of effecting it. 
Whether he suppos'd I was of his opinion or not, or was endeavoring to 
prevail on me to be so, I cannot tell, but as I expressed no^ sentiment on 
the subject he went further and obser'd " that if the affr. was brought to 
the view of Congress they wo'd most probably disagree to it, or if they 
sho'd approve the project, conduct themselves so indiscreetly as to suffer 
it to become known to the French and Engl'h residents here and thus 
defeat it. To avoid this he said it occurr'd to him expedient to propose to 
Congress that a Committee be appointed to controul him in the negotia- 
tion, to stand to him in the room of Congress and he to negotiate under 
the Committee." I then reminded him of the instructions from our State 
respecting the Mississippi to the delegation and of the impossibility of 
their concurring in any measures of the kind. Our communication on 
this subject ended from that time. Upon the arrival of Colo. Grayson I 
communicated to him all these circumstances, with my opinion on them. 
From that time, and I had reason to believe he had begun even before my 
arrival, we have known of his intriguing with the members to carry the 
point. On 27. of May 8 he addressed a letter to Congress precisely in the 
sentiment above, stating difficulties in the negotiations and proposing that 
"a Committee be appointed with full power to direct ami instruct him 
on every point relative to the proposed treaty with Spain." As we knew 
the object was to extricate himself from the instructions respecting tin- 
Mississippi we of course op p os ed it. We found he had engaged the eastern 
states in the intrigue, especially Mass:, that New York, Jersey and 1'ena. 
were in favor of it and either absolutely decided or so much so as to pn 
ise little prospect of change. The Committee propos'd by the Secretary 
was admitted generally to be without the jxwers of Congress. Since 9 
states only can give an instruction for the formation of a treaty, to 
appoint a Committee with the power of 9 states was agreed to be a suh- 

8 Jay's letter, dated May 29, is in the Journals, May 31. See no. 408, note 2, ante ; 
cf. nos. 425, 439. 443. 447. 457, 459, ante, 464-467, 470-475, 477*482, 492, 493. 495*497, 499, 
507, 508, post. 



August, 1786 423 

version of the govt, and therefore improper. The letter however was 
referr'd to a Committee who ultimately agreed to report that the Com- 
mittee be discharged and the subject referred to a Committee of the whole 
and the Sec'ry ordered to attend. He did so and come forward fully with 
the plan of a commerc. treaty condition'd with the forbearance of the use 
of the Mississippi for 25 or 30 years, with a long written speech or report 
in favor of it. The project is in a few words this " 1. That the merchts. 
of America and Spn. shall enjoy the former in the ports of Spn. and the 
Canaries, the latter in those of the U. S. the rights of native merchts. 
reciprocally. 2. That the same tonnage shall be paid on the ships of the 
two parties in the carriage of the productions and the manufactures of 
the 2 countries. 3. That the bona fide manufactures and productions of 
the United States (tobacco only excepted which shall continue under its 
present regulations) may be imported in American or Spanish vessels into 
any of his majesty's ports aforesaid in like manner as if they were the 
productions of Spain. And on the other hand that the bona fide manu- 
factures and productions of his majesty's Dominions may be imported 
into the U. S. in Spn. or American vessels in like manner as if they were 
those of the said States, and further that all such duties and imposts as 
may mutually be thought necessary to lay on them by either party, shall 
be ascertained and regulated on principles of exact reciprocity by a tariff 
to be f orm'd by a convention for the purpose, to be negotiated and made 
within one year after the exchange of the ratification of this treaty and 
in the meantime that they shall severally pay in the ports of each other 
the duties of natives only. 4. Masts and timber shall be bought here for the 
royal navy, provided that upon their carriage to Spain they shall cost no 
more than if they were bought elsewhere. 5. That in consideration of 
these advantages to the U. S. they agree to forbear the use of the Missis- 
sippi for 25 or 30 years, the term for wh. the treaty shall last." This treaty 
independent of the sacrifice, I consider as a very disadvantageous one and 
such as we should not accept, since it in reality gains us nothing and sub- 
jects to very high restrictions, such as exist in none of our other treaties, 
altho' they are in effect bad enough. But they are to be justified especially 
those of France and Holland in the motives which led to them, to bring 
those powers into the war. The subject was referred to a Committee of 
the whole on Thursday last who after debate rose and reported that they 
have come to no dicision and require leave to sit again. The delegation 
of Mass. moved in committee that the ultimatum in his instructions re- 
specting the Mississippi be repealed, in which event he would have unlim- 
ited powers to act at pleasure. This they said might be carried by 7 states. 
We observed that without the ultimatum the instruction would be a new 
one, of course 9 states necessary to it. The subjects will again be taken 
up in a few days. 4 It appears manifest they have 7 states and we 5, Mary- 
land inclusive, with the southern states. Delaware is absent. It also 
appears that they will go on under 7 states in the business and risque 
the preservation of the confederacy on it. We have and shall throw every 

4 See no. 477, note 5, post. 



424 Continental Congress 

possible obstacle in the way of the measure, protest against the right of 7 
either to instruct or ratify, give information of this to Mr. Jay and the 
Spn. resident so that neither may be deceived in the business. This is 
one of the most extraordinary transactions I have ever known, a minister 
negotiating expressly for the purpose of defeating the object of his instruc- 
tions, and by a long train of intrigue and management seducing the rep- 
resentatives of the states to concur in it. It is possible some, or perhaps 
one, (in which case it will be even) member may change his sentiments. 
but as he risqued his reputation upon carrying it, it is to be presumed he 
had engaged them too firmly in the business to have a possibility of their 
forsaking him. This however is not the only subject of consequence I 
have to engage your attention to. Certain it is that committees are held 
in this town of Eastern men and others of this State upon the subject of a 
dismemberment of the States east of the Hudson from the Union and the 
erection of them into a separate govt. To what lengths they have gone I 
know not, but have assurances as to the truth of the above position, with 
this addition to it that the measure is talked of in Mass : familiarly, and is 
supposed to have originated there. The plan of the govt in all its modi- 
fications has even been contemplated by them. I am persuaded these people 
who are in Congress from that State (at the head of the other business) 
mean that as a step toward the carriage of this, as it will so displease some 
of them as to prepare the States for this event. 

I am thoroughly persuaded the govt, is practicable and with a few altera- 
tions the best that can be devised. To manage our affairs to advantage 
under it and remedy these defects, in my opinion, nothing is wanting hut 
common sense and common honesty, in both of which necessary quali- 
fications we are, it is to be lamented, very defective. I wish much your 
sentiments upon these important subjects. You will necessarily consider 
this as under an injunction of secrecy and confide with none in whom the 
most perfect confidence may not be reposed. If any benefit may result from 
it I should have no objection to your presenting it to the view of Council — 
of this you will judge — clearly I am of opinion it will be held connected with 
other objects, and perhaps with that upon which the convention will sit 
at Annapolis. On the part of the Delegation we can give you similar 
information except as to what passed between Mr. Jay and myself — will 
it be necessary? Of one point I have a perfect conviction and upon this 
the rest of the Delegation will perhaps not write you so freely as myself, 
which is this, that the Legislature should be convened at a time sufficiently 
early to elect members to take their seats precisely on the day that those 
of the present Delegation expire — affairs are in too critical a situation 
for the State to be unrepresented a day, eminent disadvantage may result 
from it, they did from this circumstance during the last year. Let me hear 
from you upon these subjects as soon as possible and believe me with great 
respect and esteem your friend and servant 

Jas. Monroe. 

P. S. The object in the occlusion of the Mississippi on the part of these 
people so far as it is extended to the interest of their States (for those 



August, 1786 425 

of a private kind gave birth to it) is to break up so far as this will do it, 
the settlements on the western waters, prevent any in future, and thereby 
keep the States southward as they now are — or if settlements will take 
place, that they shall be on such principles as to make it the interest of the 
people to separate from the Confederacy, so as effectually to exclude any 
new State from it. To throw the weight of population eastward and 
keep it there, to appreciate the vacant lands of New York and Massachu- 
setts. In short, it is a system of policy which has for its object the keep- 
ing the weight of govt, and population in this quarter, and is prepared by 
a set of men so flagitious, unprincipled and determined in their pursuits, 
as to satisfy me beyond a doubt they have extended their views to the dis- 
memberment of the govt, and resolved either, that sooner than fail it shall 
be the case, or being only desirous of that event have adopted this as the 
necessary means of effecting it. In conversations at which I have been 
present, the Eastern people talk of a dismemberment so as to include Pena. 
(in favor of which I believe the present delegation Petit and Bayard who 
are under the influence of eastern politicks would be) and sometimes all 
the states south to the Potomack — Altho a dismemberment should be 
avoided by all the states and the conduct of wise and temperate men should 
have in view to prevent it, yet I do consider it as necessary on our part to 
contemplate it as an event which may possibly happen and for which we 
should be guarded — a dismemberment which would throw too much 
strength into the Eastern Division should be prevented. It should be so 
managed, (if it takes place) either that it should be formed into three divi- 
sions, or if into two, that Pena. if not Jersey should be included, in ours. 
Be assur'd as to all the subjects upon which I have given you information 
above, it hath been founded on authentic documents. I trust these intrigues 
are confined to a few only, but by these men I am assured are not ; what- 
ever anxiety they may give you I am persuaded it cannot be greater than 
that which I have felt. 5 J. M. 



464. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 13 August 1786. 
My Dear friend, 

.... We are now warmly interested in the question, which I some 
Time since communicated to you, and which is considered as very impor- 
tant by the speculators in the western Lands, how congress will deter- 
mine is very uncertain, our Fish, and every article we sell in Spain, is 
sold upon the Footing of the most favored nation in that country — this 
is favor, and not right, should we embarrass ourselves in the attempts of 
imprudent men to navigate the mississippi below the northern boundary 
of Florida, we can expect no favors from the Spanish Government. Eng- 
land is our Rival in the Fisheries, France does not wish us prosperity in 
this branch of commerce, if we embroil ourselves with Spain, what have 

5 Cf. no. 455, ante. 
[464] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 188. 



426 Continental Congress 

we to expect on this subject ? The answer is too obvious and important to 
leave a Doubt of the policy of forming a treaty of commerce between 
the U. S. and Spain. 2 .... 

465. The Secretary of Congress to the Governors of North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 1 

Office of the Secy, of Congress 
August 14th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
an Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, again presenting to 
the view of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia the recommenda- 
tion of the 6th Sept. 1780. As the compliance with this recommendation 
is of great importance to the Union, I have kept this Act separate from 
those transmitted with my letter of the 12th that going singly it may 
become the sole object of attention. But tho it is made the subject of a 
special letter, yet the Act of the 6th Sept. 1780, which is also enclosed, 
states so fully the motives end and reasons of this recommendation, that 
I have only to request, that your Excellency will be pleased to present this 
subject again to the view of your Legislature, and favor me with the 
result of their determination thereon which from their wisdom, justice 
and magnanimity will, I trust, be consonant to the expectations of their 
Sister States, and to the wishes of Congress. 2 

With great respect I have the honor to be Your Excellency's Most 
obedient and most humble servt. 

Chas. Thomson 

466. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York, Augt. 14, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

It has occurr'd to G. and myself to propose to Congress that negotia- 
tions be carried on with Sp'n upon the following principles 1. that exports 

2 See Monroe's taunt on King's interest in the fisheries, letter of May 31 (no. 408, 
ante). Cf. no. 475, post. Otto, the French charge d'affaires, wrote to Vergennes Aug. Mj 
" The sentiments of Mr. King, which I have had the honor to report to you, are shared by 
but a few persons who are interested in the Newfoundland fisheries. In general, 1 bare 
found in the northern states very favorable dispositions toward us and animosity toward 
England. It seems that the ill success of the American commissioners to the Barbary 
powers, the reply of Lord Carmarthen to Mr. Adams, and the repeated acts of hostility of 
the savages, have drawn nearer to us the heads of all governments " (Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, II. 379). In the same letter Otto refers to the coming commercial con- 
vention at Annapolis and quotes at length remarks of Jay to him respecting the need 
of a general plan for the commerce of the continent, and particularly of the relations with 
1 "ranee. 

J465] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
phia (addressed to "His Excellency the Governor of South Carolina"); Library of 
Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 83; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 717. 

2 Governor Caswell's reply. Sep*. 14. is ibid., p. 745- For a brief account of the 
North Carolina cessions see Treat. National Land System, pp. 340-355. 

[466] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 151; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, II. 380 (part). 



August, 1786 427 

be admitted thro' the Missisippi to some free port, perhaps N. Orleans, to 
pay there a toll to Sp'n of abt. 3. pr. cent'm ad valorem and to be car- 
ried thence under the regulations of Congress. 2. that imports shall pass 
into the western country thro the ports of the U. S. only. 3. that this 
sacrifice be given up to obtain in other respects a beneficial treaty. I beg 
of you to give me yr. opinion on it. It is manifest here that Jay and his 
party in congress are determin'd to pursue this business as far as possible, 
either as the means of throwing the western people and territory without 
the govt, of the U. S. and keeping the weight of population and govt, 
here, or of dismembering the govt, itself, for the purpose of a separate 
confideracy. There can be no other object than one of these, and I am from 
such evidence as I have, doubtful which hath the influence. I write in 
Congress and therefore am deprived of the advantage of the cypher, but 
am so desirous of yr. sentiments as to risque mine without that cover. 2 

467. Charles Thomson, Minutes of Proceedings. 1 

Thursday Aug 16, 1786. 2 
Congress went into a Com'ee of the whole 

Mr. Grayson opened the debate with an extemporary speech. He fol- 
lowed the train of Mr. P. laboured to depreciate the advantages to be 
derived from a commercial treaty with Spain and argued that nothing 
was offered by the treaty but what might be enjoyed without it. That the 

2 See no. 463, note 3, ante. Madison replied Aug. 17 {Writings, II. 268). See also 
Madison to Jefferson Aug. 12 {ibid., p. 257). In accordance with the resolution of Aug. 11 
King and Monroe were appointed Aug. 14 to confer with the legislature of Pennsylvania. 
See nos. 449, 452, ante, and no. 469, note 3, post. 

[467] x Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, Misc. 

2 The manuscript of Charles Thomson from which (pp. 13-19) these notes and 
those of Aug. 18, 21, and 22 are taken contains also a copy of the speech of Charles Pinckney 
mentioned in the opening paragraph as having preceded that of Grayson. Pinckney's speech, 
which occupies pages 1-12 and 20-31 of the manuscript, is printed (from that manuscript) 
as an appendix to vol. XXXI. of the Journals (pp. 935-948). It is also printed, from a 
broadside in the Madison Papers, in Am. Hist. Rev., X. 817-827, with an introduction by 
Worthington C. Ford. Another copy of the broadside is in Sparks MSS., IX. 85. See 
William Samuel Johnson's Notes, no. 472, post. On at least two subsequent occasions, 
when the relations with Spain were in agitation, Pinckney made allusions to this speech 
in Congress in 1786. To Washington, Dec. 14, 1789 (he was then governor of South 
Carolina) Pinckney wrote: 

" Upon the conclusion of the peace I believe it was the intention of that court to have 
entered into a treaty of amity and commerce with us, to have been our friends, and to 
have done every thing in their power to have promoted the intercourse — but they mistook 
the means — for instead of forming a treaty upon those terms which would have insured a 
reciprocity of Benefits, they thought the best way to remove every future ground of differ- 
ence, to prevent our becoming dangerous neighbours, and to keep us at a distance was to 
propose the surrender of a right as degrading to the honour as it would have been ulti- 
mately injurious to the interests of the Union. I happened to be in Congress at the time 
the proposal was brought forward through the then secretary Mr. jay — having more 
leisure or having more maturely considered the offer, I was requested by the opponents 
to prepare an answer to the reasons which Mr. Jay offered in support of Mr. Gardoqui's 
proposals, this I did, and being afterwards desired by many of the southern members to 
furnish them with copies, I had a few printed which were confidentially delivered to some 
of my friends, for their information upon a subject which at that time very much engaged 
the attention of the public. I have the honor to enclose you one of the few copies I have 
left" (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings of Washington, ed. Sparks, X. 
73 n., ed. Ford, XL 463). [Note continued on p. 428.] 

34 



428 Continental Congress 

sacrifice to be made to obtain this treaty was great and far more than 
an equivalent, that the occlusion of the river would destroy the hopes of 
the principal men in the S. States in establishing the future fortunes of 
their families, that it would render the western country of no value and 
thereby deprive the U S. of the fund on which they depended to discharge 
the domestic debt, that it would separate the interest of the western In- 
habitants, from that of the rest of the Union and render them hostile to 
it, that it would weaken if not destroy the union by disaffecting the S 
States when they saw their dearest interests sacrificed and given up to 
obtain a trivial commercial advantage for their brethren in the East. That 
Spain knew her own weakness and would not dare to go to war to secure 
her unreasonable demands. That if she did, she would not be supported 
by any of the commercial nations in Europe, that it was their interest 
and wish that the trade of S Am : should be open, that although France 

In a letter to Charles Lester July 8, 1801, Pinckney refers specifically to his speech in 
Congress on this occasion and mentions that it was printed for circulation among his par- 
ticular friends only. He also states in the letter that Madison was in New York at tin- 
time. Madison was in Philadelphia at the time the speech was delivered, although he had 
been in New York a few days before (see no. 457, note 2, ante). It is improbable that 
the speech was printed in advance of delivery, but Madison may very well have seen a 
copy of it as prepared by Pinckney. The pertinent part of the letter, which was at cm- 
time in possession of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York, follows : 

" Charleston 
" Dear Sir, 

As most of the Gentlemen with whom I served in Congress in the year 1786 are now 
not in Congress and as some events which occurred at that time may be unknown to you 
I consider it as proper to state to you, whom I have always viewed as among my par- 
ticular friends and supporters, the facts which occurred at the time of Mr. Gardoquis 
proposing a treaty with spain on the condition of the Mississippi's being shut for 25 or 
30 years. I take the liberty of doing so because it may have been supposed by some Gentle- 
men unacquainted with these circumstances, that I have been sent on a mission with the 
duties or local relations of which I may not be so well acquainted as others who have turned 
their attention more particularly to the subject, whereas the fact is that so long ago as 
1786 it became peculiarly my duty in Congress to investigate and attend to the situation 
of the Western Country, its boundaries and rights, and the differences then existing be- 
tween the United States and spain. In the treaty proposed by Mr. Gardoqui, one article 
of which was to shut up the Mississippi against the Citizens of the Union for 25 years, 
This proposal was strongly supported by Mr. Jay in a written report of great length. Ih 
was then Secretary for foreign affairs. At the request of many of the Southern Members 
I answered this report in writing, and submitted it to Congress and had a very principal 
share in preventing the treaty from being adopted, and in keeping the river open. My 
reasonings were printed and I have now the pleasure of inclosing you a copy confidentially 
and not to be reprinted, for although the thing is over for Sixteen years, and an advan- 
tageous treaty since formed, yet these were only intended for my particular friends. Mr. 
Maddison was not in Congress then but happened to be in New York where 
sat and perfectly remembers it and so do Governor Munro and all the members then in 
Congress. Mr. King and General St. Clair were amongst the most strong and persev 
supporters of Mr. Jay's opinions and in favor of the occlusion. The rejection of this 
measure at that time, alone opened the way to the favorable treaty since made with them. 
The laborious investigation I had occasion to give the proposition has impressed the 
subject of boundaries and intercourse with Spain so strongly on my mind, that I trust with 
the instructions I shall officially receive, I shall be sufficiently able to discharge the duties 
of my appointment 

" 1 am with very great regard and affectionate respect for your many virtues and the 
friendship you have honoured me with for so long a time, Dear Sir 

Yours truly 

Charles Pinckn 
"July 8, 1801 
To [?] Chas Lester" 



August, if 86 429 

was connected with Sp. by the family compact and policy, yet in case of a 
rupture bet. the U S and S. she would only mediate between them but not 
join the latter. But in case she did G. B. would join the U.S. That she 
in particular wished to see Sp divested of her S. Am. colonies and to par- 
ticipate in that trade. The interest and policy of the dutch would lead 
them to the same measures. That the U S had nothing to fear from a war 
with Sp. That Morgan with iooo men could penetrate into the heart of 
Mexico and emancipate all the Sp: provinces— that the inhabitants there 
were ripe for a revolt and only waited for such an event to shake off the 
yoke of Spain. That the true policy of the U S was to stand firm to 
cement and strengthen the Union among themselves and to assert their 
right to the navigation of the Mississippi and he had no doubt but that 
Sp. would finally agree to it. Mr. King spoke next. Having in behalf 
of the delegates for Massa. moved new Instructions to Mr. J. and observed 
that this subject was forced upon us, and not to be put off at our pleasure. 
He proceeded to point out the distressed state of the Eastern States — that 
they had an ungrateful soil and no staple but what they drew from the 
Sea. That the fishery depended on a market the best market was Spain 
and this could not be secured but by treaty. Therefore a treaty with Sp 
was of the utmost consequence to the E States in particular, but the terms 
which were then moved were beneficial to all the states. That the equiva- 
lent to be offered was of no great consequence. It was only an Agreement to 
forbear the use of that which we could not at present enjoy. That the 
Mouth of the river was in the possession of Sp. That she now excluded us 
from the use of the Navigation and would continue to exclude us until we 
were able to assert our right by arms. That if the value of the western 
lands depended upon the free navigation of the river Miss, the forcible 
occlusion by Spain operated as strongly to that effect as a voluntary for- 
bearance for a term of years. That however some gentlemen might de- 
preciate the power of Sp. she was by no means a contemptible enemy. 
That F must favour if not join her — that our hopes of assistance from 
any of the Maritime power of Europe were visionary and ill founded, 
that they all considered us as rivals and looked upon us with a jealous eye 
and though they wished us to be independent they never wished us to be 
powerful. That refusing to treat on the terms proposed is sacrificing the 
interest and happiness of a Million to promote the views of speculating 
landjobbers. That entering into a treaty on conditions to forbear the use 
of the Navigation will give time to the U. S to acquire strength, arrange 
their affairs, and strengthen the Union, so that at the end of the term they 
may be prepared to assert their right, whereas by breaking off the treaty, 
Sp. will be disgusted and will strengthen her post to exclude us from the 
use of the river, the settlers in the W. country buoyed up with the hopes 
of assistance will attempt to force a passage and the U S will be precipi- 
tated into a war before they are prepared. That in case of such an event 
the existence of the Confederation will be endangered. For the States 
whose interests are now neglected if not sacrificed will not be willing to 
incur the expence and danger of a war brought upon them as they will 
think unnecessarily and prematurely, more especially when they considered 



430 Continental Congress 

that by this precipitate step they are deprived of the only advantages which 
they could expect from the Union. In such a case would there be found 
a man east of — where to draw the line he did not know — but would say 
east of Deleware who wd. give his vote for war. 

468. James Monroe to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan) l 

D ~. New York August 16, 1786. 

I was favored with yours a few days since on the subject of paper 
money. 2 Virginia hath emitted no bills of credit nor hath she any medium 
of paper circulating in the state except the indents of the U.S.A. publick 
securities, for the former of which a provision is made by the passage 
of the requisition of the last year and the securities of the State by dif- 
ferent funds ; those to foreigners by the appropriation of confiscated prop- 
erty to an amount nearly commensurate with the debt, and those to the 
citizens by the annual payment of the intrest but as to real paper money 
we have none of it and most earnestly hope we shall have none. It is with 
concern I have been informed it is probable commissioners will not attend 
the convention at Annapolis from your State. I hop[e] this is not the 
case. I have looked forward to that convention as the source of infinite 
blessings to this country, however expedient it may be to extend the 
powers of congress yet recommendations from that body are received with 
such suspicion by the States that their success however proper they may be 
is always to be doubted, recommendations will meet with more attention 
from a body assembled under the particular direction of the States for a 
temporary purpose in whom the lust for power cannot be supposed to exist ; 
I therefore earnestly hope your State and all the Eastern States will send 
representatives to this convention. 8 pardon the liberty I take to make this 
suggestion and be assured of the sincerity with which I am dear Sir, very 
respectfully your very humble Servant 

469. James Monroe to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton). 1 

Dear Sir, NeW YoRK ' Augt l6, I?S6 ' 

I enclose you the draft of the ordinance mention'd to you yesterday. 8 
I suppos'd you had been acquainted with the recommendat'n for con- 
vening the legislature and in that instance that there was an impropi 
in my mentioning the subject to you, otherwise I sho'd have apprize! you 

[468] l Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr., 1782- 1788. 

2 See no. 454, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 388, 394, 422, ante. 
[469! N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5767. 

2 The ordinance referred to was no doubt that which the committee of July 27 
was to draft for carrying into effect the system of impost recommended by Congress 
Apr. 18, 1783. See no. 449, note 2, ante. The New York act (May 4, 1786) relative t 
impost had been laid before Congress May 12 (see nos. 401, 410, ante), and referred to 
a committee, whose report was presented June 16 and appears in the Journals under 
July 27. Meanwhile the Pennsylvania phase of the matter had been under discussion, and, 



August, 1/86 431 

of it. Our delegation were in sentiment ag'nst rejecting the act of New 
York when the report of the Committee was before them to that effect, 
from an opinion it wo'd unnecessarily irritate the state, that the best plan 
was to draft an ordinance which sho'd shew to the legislature it was not 
a system of oppression, but in conformity with the laws and constitution 
of the state itself, and thereby be an inducm't with it to grant powers in 
such conformity with the acts of other states as to enable them to carry 
it into effect, to proceed with temper in this business and rather to con- 
ciliate and gain the confidence of the state and all its citizens hath been my 
earnest wish throughout and by all means to avoid irritation. In the 
recommendation of friday last I consider'd there was a substantial de- 
parture from the system, for it was that the state of N. Y'k grant the 
powers, (not in conformity with the system) but in such conformity with 
the grants of the other States as to enable the U. S. to carry it or rather 
to carry a system of impost into effect. I was therefore of opinion that 
the immediate assembly of the legislature might be the means of a com- 
promise of this difficulty. What will now be done I cannot say; yr. 
letter of today is referr'd to a committee. 3 Some gentlemen suppose the 
rejecting of the grant of New York will be adviseable and that the Com- 
mittee sho'd report so. Certain it is an ordinance cannot be form'd on 
the present act, yet in making this known to the state or in proposing any 
alteration of it I co'd wish it might be in a manner that might give offence 
to none, especially to those who contributed most to bring it about and 
are the best friends of the revolution. I shall be sincerely thankful to you 
for any communications on this subject and am very respectfully your 

friend and servant T ,, 

jas. Monroe 

P. S. I shall have occasion for the ordinance sometime to morrow early 
in the day. 

470. The Virginia Delegates, Motion. 1 

[August 16? 1786.] 2 

Nine States being necessary to instruct a Minister in any negotiations 

respecting the formation of treaties — and certain Instructions having been 

on the day of 1785 given to Mr. Jay Secretary for foreign 

as the Delaware act relating to the impost was likewise unsatisfactory, the resolve of 
July 27 involved all three of these states. The committee made a report Aug. 9 ( Sedgwick 
had taken the place of Dane on the committee Aug. 8), and on Aug. 11 it was resolved to 
send a committee to the Pennsylvania legislature and to make a recommendation to New 
York. See further note 3, below. 

3 Clinton's letter of Aug. 16 (see the Journals, p. 524 n.) was on the same day 
referred to a committee, who reported Aug. 18. Consideration of the report was resumed 
Aug. 22 (it is printed under that date), and again Aug. 23, when the governor of New 
York was again earnestly recommended to convene the legislature for the purpose of 
reconsidering their act relative to the impost. Clinton replied Aug. 26, declining to con- 
vene the legislature (Journals, Aug. 29, p. 596 n.). Cf. nos. 466, 473, 477, 485, 488, 489, post. 
Clinton's letter of Aug. 16 is embodied in a motion of the New York delegates Aug. 23. A 
draft was in N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5766. 

[470] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 105 (in the writing of Roger 
Alden). 

2 This motion, which is without date, has been found only in the writing of Roger 
Alden, assistant secretary of Congress. In his letter to Governor Henry Aug. 12 (no. 463, 



432 Continental Congress 

Affairs for the purpose of negotiating with Mr. Gardoqui, Encargado 
de Negocios of his catholic Majesty, the last clause of which was in 
these words — "And that the following be substituted — That the Sec- 
retary to the U : S for the department of foreign Affairs be and hereby 
is instructed in his plan of a treaty with the Encargado de Negocios of 
his catholic Majesty, particularly to stipulate the right of the U:S to 
their territorial bounds and the navigation of the Mississippi from the 
same to the Ocean established in their treaties with G: Britain, and 
that he neither conclude or sign any treaty, compact or convention with 
the said Encargado de Negocios until he hath previously communicated 
it to Congress, and received their approbation ". And whereas a Motion 
is made to repeal the said recited clause of Mr. Jay's Instructions, leaving 
the other part of the same in full effect, And enabling him to negotiate 
without any respect to the right of navigating the Mississippi, and to 
conclude a treaty without first consulting the U : S in Congress Assemb'd, 
And as the establishment of a precedent enabling seven States to alter 
the Instructions of a Minister on the subject of treaties to which the 
assent of Nine was in the first place necessary would be productive of the 
most serious danger, in destroying the guard which the confederation has 
wisely provided on this important subject, The sense of Congress is 
required on the following proposition — Nine States having assented to 
the said Instructions, and the repeal of the clause above mentioned altering 
the same so materially as to make it a new one, and enable the Secretary 
for foreign Affairs to negotiate upon other and very different principles 
from those contained in the original Instructions — Are seven States com- 
petent to the said partial repeal? 

471. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York, August 16th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

The Ordinance for regulating the Indian Department is now passed, 
and the Secretary will Transmit it to the different States 2 I am happy to 
inform you that after repeated endeavors, we have obliged the Super- 

ante) Monroe remarks relative to the Massachusetts motion to repeal the ultimatum in 
Jay's instructions respecting the Mississippi (see no. 459, ante), " We observed that without 
the ultimatum the instruction would be a new one, and of course 9 states necessary to it " ; 
while in his letter to Jefferson Aug. 19 (no. 477, post) he speaks as if the contention had 
already been definitely put forward : " We deny the right in seven states to alter an in- 
struction so as to make it a new one." Monroe further indicates in the same letter that 
prior to Aug. 18 there followed some days during which no new proposition was offered. 
If this motion then was made in the committee of the whole, as seems most probable, it was 
probably made on the 16th, or thereabouts. Furthermore it probably preceded the 
motion of Aug. 18 (no. 475, post). See further the Virginia motion Aug. 29, Pinckney's 
motion Aug. 30 (Journals; see especially p. 610 n.) ; also nos. 472, 474, 475. 477-482. post. 
While it is assumed that the motion probably emanated from the Virginia delegates, it 
might of course have been sponsored by any of the southern group. 

[471] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy) ; N. C. State Recs.. XVIII. 
718. 

2 The ordinance, adopted Aug. 7, was transmitted by Secretary Thomson Aug. 12 
(no. 462, ante). Cf. nos. 373, 375. 383. 394. 407, 416, ante, 486, 508, post. 



August, 1786 433 

intendant for the Southern District to Act in conjunction with the 
Authority of the State in all matters wherein the Legislative Rights of 
the States may be concerned we have also postponed the Choice of the 
Superintendant for that district, at least for some time when you peruse 
the Ordinance, please to give advice respecting the choice of the Super- 
intendant. I will endeavor to prevent it until I am favored with a line 
from you. 3 the Ordinance for regulating the postage is now under 
Consideration, and hope it will be finished this day, no material alterations 
will take place, except a few cross postes, and the postages to be paid in 
Hard money. 4 The Temporary Government for the Western Country is 
yet under commitment, 5 the treaty with Spain Occasions much debate and 
discontent the particulars I am not at Liberty to mention (as before 
observed), this Subject is in a committee of the whole House and there 
is great Divisions in the Eastern and Southern Delagates and I fear no 
small disquietude will attend the decision Shou'd it terminate against us 
which there is reason to fear, the Western Country will experience the 
disadvantage. 6 The Subject of Acquiring more powers to the Confedera- 
tion, is in the Order of the day, when finished they will be forwarded to 
you, 7 we have at this time twelve States on the floor of Congress, but I 
expect they will with draw as soon as this Grand Subject is fully decided. 
I am exceedingly anxious to hear of Colo. Blount and Family coming 
forward, necessity will press me to return as soon as conveniency will 
admit, the deligates of North Carolina is in a disagreeable Situation for 
want of Suitable provision, Mr. White has not received any thing from 
the State my Naval Stores yet remains unsold, I am very desirous to be 
relieved in time, and hope to provide better for the Next Tower [Tour] 
we are assured of the Friendly disposition of the foreign Courts, except 
the barbary powers with whom we cannot Negociate for want of money, 
this Treaty will cost at least One Million, what measures will be pursued 
on this Occasion is yet unknown, the subject is at present under commit- 
ment. 8 Congress has fixed the alloy of Coin, the Standard is eleven parts 9 

3 See the last paragraph of the ordinance. The salary of the superintendents was 
fixed Aug. 8, and on Aug. 9 Richard Butler was elected superintendent for the Northern 
district. Oct. 6 James White (then; a delegate in Congress) was elected superintendent 
for the Southern district. See also the Journals, Oct. io, II. Cf. nos. 371, 375, ante, 483, 
508, 513, 521, post. See also Caswell's reply Sept 24 (N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 746). 

4 Bloodworth evidently refers, not to the ordinance for the regulation of the post 
office, which had been reported June 15 (see no. 360, ante), but to the measures under 
consideration respecting the transportation of the mails and the establishment of cross 
posts. See the Journals, Aug. 7, 15, 16, 21, Sept. 4; cf. ibid., Oct. 23, 26, 31, Nov. i, 
2, 3. Cf. no. 535, post. 

5 See nos. 373, 394, 396, 417, 425, 443, 466, ante, 483, 488, 490, 497, 506, post. 

6 See no. 463, note 3, ante, and nos. 472-475, 477-482, 492, 493, 495-497, 499, 507, 
508, post ; also Caswell's reply, cited under note 3, above. 

7 See no. 434, note 3, ante. The report of the grand committee on amendments to 
the Articles of Confederation is in the Journals, Aug. 7, and appears to have been assigned 
for consideration Aug. 14. The Journals do not however record its appearance either on 
the 14th or the 16th. Concerning the fate of the measure see nos. 489, 490, 497, 506, 508, 
post. Cf. no. 443, ante. 

8 See no. 453, note 2, ante. 

9 As recorded in the Governor's Letter-Book the reading here is " one eleventh 
part", probably an error of the copyist. On the subject of coinage, etc., see the Journals, 



434 Continental Congress 

fine gold or silver, and one part alloy, the Dollar is made the money Unit 
by which the Decimal Ratio is fixed in the following manner, vis Mills 
the lowest money of account iooo equal to the Money Unit or Dollar, 
Cents the highest Copper piece ioo equal to a dollar, Dimes the lowest 
Silver Coin, 10 equal to a dollar. Dollar the Money Unit by this you will 
perceive that the mode of Keeping accounts, will be altered which I 
confess was against My inclination as it was contrary to the long Usage, 
the Silver Coin are a Dime double Dime, half dollar and Dollar the Gold 
coin are an Eagle and half Eagle, and quarter of an Eagle to be stamped 
with the American Eagle the largest to be equal to ten dollars and so in 
proportion that the mint price of a pound Troy weight of uncoined Gold 
eleven parts fine and one alloy shall be two hundred and Nine Dollars, 
Seven dimes and Seven Cents, the board of treasury have it in Orders 
to draw up an Ordinance for establishing a Mint, when this is Com- 
pleated we shall want nothing but Bullion, when this want will be supplied, 
it is to me unknown. It appears there is some commotions in the 
Massachusetts about the Gentlemen of the longrobe, which order the 
populous wish to destroy they form Committees and are Clamorous, 10 
Rhode Island is also In Convulsions still about the Paper Currency, with 
which they are like to do Nothing some Merchants have moved out of the 
State, they also form Committees to oppose the passage of the Money 
while one party endeavors to enforce the law for that purpose. 11 

472. William Samuel Johnson, Notes of Debates. 1 

[August 16-22, 1 786.]* 
Treaty with Spain 
Amr[mativ]e 

Gardoqui. 29th May 86.* Spain will on no acc[oun]t permit the navi- 
g[atio]n. Good Dispos[itio]n of Spain — Act of Friendship. Spain 
wants and consum[e]s our Products — Pays in Cash. Will Garanty our 
Domin[io]ns. Secure our Trade and Marine. 

Apr. 12, Aug. 8, Sept. 21, Oct. 10, 16, 17; also Bibliographical Notes under Apr. 8, Sept. 
20, Oct. 16. Cf. nos. 182, 203, 217, 227, 315, 462, ante, 473, 477, 487. 506, 519. 528, 543, 
645, 646, post. 

"The allusion is to Shays' rebellion, which involved, among other things, the 
courts — "the Gentlemen of the long robe". 

11 See no. 423, note 3, ante. 
[47a] 1 Library of Congress, W. S. Johnson MSS. These Notes, in their original form, 
are printed in the Journals of the Continental Congress, 1786, Appendix ; but because 
Johnson's cryptic abbreviations are likely to leave the reader puzzled at times, the Notes are 
here reproduced with those abbreviations expanded. Moreover, at a few points the ti- 
the Journals has been found to be incorrect. 

* Apparently Johnson set about summarizing the arguments pro and con as they 
had been presented up to and including Aug. 16; then, at the end of the negative section of 
the nwimrer i p t, he added notes of Grayson's remarks on the 17th. These appear to refer 
to the same speech of Grayson which Thomson records under Aug. 18, yet they may very 
well have been used on both davs, for in the brief notes under Aug. 21 Thomson remarks 
that the arguments on both sides were again repeated. One item at least in these notes 
shows that they were not completed earlier than Aug. 22. See note 10, below. 

8 Gardoqui's letter to Jay is dated May 25 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 
199), but Jay's letter to Congress on the subject is dated May 29 (ibid., p. 202, and the 
Journals, May 31). Gardoqui's letter, together with some earlier comments on the subject, 
is also embodied in the Journals Aug. 3 as a part of Jay's report. 



August, 1786 435 

Jay. 4 Comm[ercia]l Treaty w[it]h Sp[ai]n most benef [icia]l. France 
will give pref[erenc]e to Sp[ain] — Marri[a]ge with Portug[a]l etc. 
Britain will inj[ur]e us with Sp[ain], w[it]h her Rivals etc. etc. Sp[ai]n 
has inf[luenc]e in Moroc[co] and Barb[ar]y will exercise. D[itt]o in 
Italy. In Am [eric] a very Good or 111. Trad[e] very ben[eficia]l but to 
be secur[e]d only by Treaty. Treaty prop[ose]d Recip[roca]l — as 
Natives — all Manuf [acture]s and Prod[uct]s Tobac[co] excepted. Will 
take Nav[al] Stores Masts and Timb[e]r for Navy at eq[ua]l Price — 
In Cash. 

Prohibit[io]n of Tobac[co] now exists — Philip[pine]s — Massissipi 
and Territ[or]y — Will never yield Mass[issipp]i Am [eric] a will have 
it. Ans [we] r, Period distant etc. Forb[idde]n 20 or 25 y[ea]rs. Now 
shut. Will be so. Not Imp[ortan]t for that Per[io]d. Val[u]e of 
W[estern] Land. Will be so. Lessee adm[i]ts Rig[h]t of Less[o]r. — 
Try — no inj[ur]y much Good. Terr[itor]y few acres. Sp[ain] has a 
New Com[mercia]l Treat [y] with Sp[ain]. 5 May hereaft[e]r be In- 
disp[ose]d towards — or unable. Picture of our Circum [ stance] s. Ill — 
Cont[inu]e so till Vig[orou]s Nat[iona]l Goverm[en]t. 

Inst[ructio]n of Feb[ruar]y 15th, 1 781, to desist from claim of Nav[i- 
gatio]n of Massi[ssip]pi below 31st Deg[re]e. 30th Ap[ril] 1782, 
Approb[atio]n of D[itt]o. Repeal Aug[us]t 6th, 1782. 6 Aug[us]t 13th, 
1779, Resolut[ion]s of Instruction] s for Treaty of Peace w[it]h 
G[reat] B[ritain]. 7 8th June 1781. 8 Proposition of Virg[ini]a as to 
North[er]n Bound[ar]y, 14th, 17th Oct[obe]r, 1780. 9 Letter contain- 
[in]g Reasons on the Right of U. S. to Missi[ssip]pi and Bound [arie]s 
claim [e]d. Long and able. 10 

King. 11 Minds settled. Reciprocity, implies all — Commissioner] s to 
regulate. Most fav[ore]d Nation. Do[e]s not extend to speciffick Rights 
purchas'd — Hind[er]s Navig[atio]n of Massi[ssip]pi. Dutch Bottoms — 
Summ[ar]y of the Ben[e]f[it]s from Secret [ar]y of F[oreign] 
A [flairs]. 

Rep[or]t S.F. Affairs on Sp[anish] claims and Fren[ch] Views in 
resp[ec]t to Missasipi. St. Joseph taken by Sp[ain] — Marq[uis] 
Fayet[te] toC[ount] Flor[ida] Blan[ca] Renvalls Paper. 12 

4 The first two paragraphs below are, in the main, a summary of Jay's argument 
presented to Congress Aug. 3. 

5 This statement is of course an inadvertence. What Jay said was, " The late 
War has left her [Spain] new commercial engagements to make, particularly with Britain ". 
Cf. nos. 540, 55 1» 552, post. 

6 The resolution of Aug. 6, 1782, was not a repeal but only a conditional with- 
drawal of instructions. 

7 Actually adopted Aug. 14, 1779. See the Journals, Aug. 13, 14. 

8 The new instructions of that date to the peace commissioners. 

9 See the Journals, Oct. 17, 1780, also these Letters, vol. V., nos. 481, 522. 

10 The reference is evidently to Jay's letter of Aug. 17, which is recorded in the 
Journals as having been read Aug. 22. 

11 Thomson summarizes (no. 467, ante) a speech of King Aug. 16, and mentions a 
further speech Aug. 21 (no. 481, post), but the place of this note suggests that Johnson 
may have been referring to remarks made by King subsequent to the receipt of Jay's 
report of Aug. 17. 

12 See Jay's report of Aug. 17 (Journals, Aug. 22), which includes extracts of a 
correspondence between Lafayette and Floridablanca in February, 1783, and also a 



436 Continental Congress 

King. The fact is you cannot use the River for 20 Y[ear]s all fol- 
l[ow]s from this. 

Negat[iv]e. 

Gray[so~\n. Pand[e]rs Base. 18 

Lee. 1 * Not attainable. Ergo Unnecess[ar]y and Mischi[evou]s. 

Pink[ne~\y. 16 must pres[um]e Jay has found[atio]n. Little Diff[er- 
enc]e betw[ee]n Temp[orar]y and perpet[ua]l Cession — Submits 
Pap[er]s in ans[we]r. 

1st. Examine his Premis[e]s. 

2. The off[er]s of Spain 

3. The Price of the Treaty. 

4. The Policy of ag[reein]g to a Treaty at this Time 

France fav[orabl]e to Sp[ai]n but will not risq[u]e a Cont[es]t 
with Eng[lan]d and U.S. for her. Eng[lan]d Turns her att[entio]n 
toS[outh] A[merica] and w[oul]d interf [er]e for us. Treat[y] w[it]h 
Port[u]g[a]l. Sp[ain] no use to us in Barb[ar]y — Nor in Italy tho the 
K[ing] of Nap[le]s a Son of Sp[ain] — Sp[ain] fears us and our In- 
terf [erencje in S[outh] Am [eric] a — It is the Int[eres]t of Sp[ain] to 
Treat. 

2ly. The offers are reciprocal]. Masts — Can[arie]s — Philip [ pine] s 
cannot be recip[roca]l our Trade Free — theirs enslav[e]d. Dut[ie]s 
high 10 25 p[e]r C[en]t. Wants our Prod[uct]s and will not shut her 
Ports — Masts no Conseq[uenc]e. She will want them, and you will 
want no sale. Their Int[eres]t will open their Ports — Manilla Minis- 
t[eria]l Finess But if real no advant[ag]e. N.E. States benef [itte]d. 
Trade w[it]h Sp[ain] Treat[ie]s w[it]h Spain — Fam[il]y Comp[ac]t. 
N[ew] York and Pen[nsylvani]a may exp[or]t wheat. Jer[sey] out. 
Virg[ini]a not Tobac[co] and most Inj[ure]d. Caro[lina]s and 
Geor[gi]a Rice wants no Treaty or if did not at such exp[enc]e. No 
equiv[alen]t. — The Right admitted. 

4. Ill Policy — Price of W[estern] Lands Depends up[o]n Mass[issipp]i 
if stop[ped] check emig[ratio]n and ruin Sale. While uncert[ai]n not 
relinq[uis]h[ed] b[e]cau[s]e cant maint[ai]n right. Case of the Posts 
compared — Similar. W[estern] Territ[or]y to be secured to us and 
comm[unicate]d with only by that NavigTatio]n. No benef[i]ts to be 
acq[uire]d to one part of the Union at Exp[enc]e of the other — and 
this Meas[ur]e will prev[en]t the acq[uisitio]n of Powers to Cong[res]s. 
S[outhern] States Inj[ure]d Peace no right to Cede. 

No Treat [ie]s sho[ul]d be made at this time for want of Power. 
Wait till that Power obt[aine]d. No precip[itatio]n — Not press [e]d — 
Involve us in contests, prevent acq[uisitio]n of Power etc etc. 

translation of the memoir of Gerard de Rayneval on the subject of western claims, which 
Jay had transmitted to Livingston Nov. 17, 1782. Concerning this memoir see Samuel F. 
Bemis, Diplomacy of t)it American Revolution, pp. 218-222. 

18 In the case of each of these words the interpretation is open to some question. 

14 Thomson records some remarks of Lee Aug. 18 (no. 474, post). 

18 Concerning Pinckney's speech see no. 467, note _\ <m.V. Johnson's notes of Pinck- 
ney's third topic are embodied in his " sly ". 



August, 1786 437 

Monroe} 6 The affors[ai]d Treaty affects, 1. Me[r]ch[an]ts. 2. 
Tonnage or Shiping. 3. Products. Not benef [icia]l. Tariff to be mutually 
agreed. Interfer[e]s w[it]h the Rights of Ind[ividua]l States to Prohibit 
and with form[e]r Treat [ie]s. They may also come in und[e]r the clause 
of Most fav[ore]d Nation giving same equivalents. Will prevent obtain- 
[in]gnecess[ar]y Powers of Congress. 

Augt. 17th. Grayson. 11 Decid[e]s the Exist [enc]e of the Confed- 
eration. Rep [or] t of S.F.A. 1S prep [are] s for new Wars. Feeb[l]e 
Mon[arch]y of Sp[ain] Fam[il]y Comp[ac]t not extend to this case. 
Fr[anc]e noth[in]g to gain by Occlus[io]n of Mississ[ipp]i. Her In- 
t[eres]t to have it open, so of arm[e]d Neut[ralit]y. — Brit[ain] will 
join us ag[ains]t Sp[ain] — But continent] can by Prom[otio]n [?] 19 
upon their Fish[eries] Def [ea]t the obt[ainin]g of Comm[ercia]l Powers 
for Cong[res]s. Prop[ositio]n [?] 20 Imp[ortan]t [to] S[outhern] 
States. The Treaty not benefic[ia]l. 

473. Rufus King to Nathan Dane. 1 

My Dear Sir, NeW YoRK *? ^&- '7 s6 - 

I am exceedingly indebted to you for your friendly letter of the nth 
instant, it is the only letter which I have received for many months that 
contained the valueable political information which we so much wanted. 
I am happy to learn that prudent and discreet men concur with us in 
opinion concerning the Spanish negotiation ; it would appear strange to me 
if a contrary opinion was entertained by any sensible man North of the 
Potomack. this business has made little progress since you left us : however 
it will soon receive a decision — that decision is as uncertain as when you 
left us. 2 

Congress on Friday determined to send a committee of two members 
to confer with the Legislature of Pennsylvania on the subject of their 
connecting the Impost and Supplementary Fund, the Legislature meet 
in a few days and Col. Monroe and myself go as the committee. 3 

The report of the board of Treasury relative to the mint, contained 
on the 6. 7. and 8 Pages of the Printed Report has been agreed to by 

16 Thomson does not record remarks of Monroe, either in the notes of Aug. 16 or 
those of Aug. 18, but he does mention Monroe as one of the speakers Aug. 21 (no. 481, 
post). 

17 The remarks of Grayson here noted correspond closely with those noted by 
Thomson under Aug. 18. 

18 That is, Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 

19 The chief doubt is whether the superior is n ; but the frequent reference to pro- 
motion of the fisheries leads to the belief that, notwithstanding the preposition " upon ", 
promotion is the word intended. 

20 This interpretation of Johnson's abbreviation is questionable, but of several con- 
jectural interpretations it seems best to accord with Grayson's argument as elsewhere re- 
corded. For instance, in the speech reported by Thomson Aug. 16 (no. 467, ante), he says. 
" the occlusion of the river would destroy the hopes of the principal men in the S. States 
in establishing the future fortunes of their families ". 

[473 1 1 Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

2 Dane's letter is no. 460, ante. See also nos. 463-473, ante, 475-482, 492, 493, 495- 
497, 499, 507, 508, post. 

3 See the Journals. Aug. 11. 14; also nos. 458, 459, 466, 469, ante, 477, 485, 488, 489, 
493, 499, 500, post. 



438 Continental Congress 

Congress. This establishes the Standard of the various metals, the money 
of account, and the different Species of coins struck under the federal 
authority. 4 

Nothing of importance, except the preceeding acts, has taken place since 
your departure. The Indian Ordinance I think passed while you was here. 

Sedgwick leaves us in a few days of consequence my Journey to Massa- 
chusetts depends on your Return. My affairs require that I should not 
long delay this Journey; I am therefore confident you will make your 
visit as short as possible. Mrs. King thanks you for your kind remember- 
ance, and joins the President, 5 Mr. Sedgwick and myself in respectful 
compliments 

474. Charles Thomson. Minutes of Proceedings. 1 
Aug. 18. The Com'ee of the whole sat again. 2 

Mr. Grayson spoke. He depreciated the advantages of the trade with 
Sp. and endeavoured to shew that whatever the advantages might be they 
were confined to the E. States — that those employed in the fishery mi^ht 
find a market for the fish, and N Y more speedily settle her waste land but 
that the sacrifice to be made to obtain the advantages was wholly at 
the Expence of the S. States which had no share in them. That the only 
thing wanting to make the U S respectable both at home and abroad was 
enlarging the powers of Congress, granting it a settled revenue and giving 
it the power of regulating trade. That for this purpose deputies from 
the states were soon to meet at Annapolis ; but should the measure pro- 
posed be pursued the S. States would never grant those powers which 
were acknowledged to be essential to the existence of the Union. That 
Spain would never enter into a war with the U. S to maintain her claim. 
She was too sensible of her own weakness and the power of the U S 
to injure her, ever to hazard such a step. That she offered nothing as a 
compensation for the sacrifice. That the agreeing to a forbearance for 
any time was a relinquishment of the right — that the treaty proposed 
was only sowing the seeds of a war — that a tariff would never be settled 
and that the appointmt. of Comrs. to settle the boundaries was unusual 
and agreeing to the appointment of them was the same as giving up to 
S the territory on the E side of the river M. that the power of Congress 
to dismember any of the states without first consulting their constituents 
was doubted — that it was better to risque the consequence of offending 
Sp. by asserting our right, than by treating on the terms proposed to 
endanger the Existence of the Union — that if Sp. wished to obtain such 
a valuable acquisition she ought to offer exclusive priviliges adequate 

4 Sec the Journals, Aug. 8, and the Bibliographical Notes (p. 965) ; also no. 47'. 
note 9, ante. 

6 That is, Nathaniel Gorham. William Samuel Johnson recorded in his diary 
under Aug. 17, " Din'd Presidents ". During the two weeks Aug. 14 to 26 he was " at 
Congress every day except the two Saturdays, 19th and 26th, when he was " at Comm'ee ". 
[474] l Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, Misc. 

2 See no. 467, ante, and no. 481, post. 



August, 1/86 439 

thereto. That it was not unusual for Sp : to grant exclusive Privileges, 
witness the Assiento contract etc. That nothing like this was contained 
in the treaty. That the offer of putting Am and Sp. on the footing of 
natives was chimerical, that it had been tried in the family compact, but 
in a few years was given up as impracticable — that if it could be carried 
into effect the Spaniards would reap the whole advantage. 

Mr. Sedgwick expatiated on the advantage of the treaty in promoting 
the fishery, ship building and the carrying trade etc. 

Mr. Lee would not go into the argument whether the advantages to be 
derived from the treaty were great or small, equal or unequal; but ad- 
mitting them to be as great, as it was contended they were, there were 
other considerations of more weight in his mind. He was sorry to find 
gentlemen talk so lightly of a separation and dissolution of the Con- 
federation; he considered our existence as a nation to depend on our 
Union. He was sensible that to preserve that Union, the powers of Con- 
gress should be enlarged. He saw no prospect of this if this measure was 
pursued farther, If it took place the people west of the moun [tains] 
would be severed from their brethren on the East, and either set up for 
themselves or put themselves under the protection of G B or Sp and in 
either case become formidable enemies to the U S. He therefore thought 
the subject required the utmost deliberation and that we shd. be extremely 
cautious how we advanced one step further. 

Mr. Symmes. Had written his sentiments and read them off. He did 
not deny but that some advantages might be derived from a treaty with 
Sp. but did not view them in so high a light as some others. The true 
policy of the U S was to cultivate their lands and encrease their population. 
The fishery and trade drew off great numbers from more useful employ- 
ments. Such men seldom married and when old were burthensome 
citizens, though some might grow rich by trade he did not consider it of 
any great advantage but rather a disadvantage to the community as they 
introduced luxury and gave a desrelish for cultivating the soil. He was 
not however for going into the extremes with either party in this question. 
He admitted that a forbearance of the. use of the river would lower the 
value of the lands but this might in some measure be compensated by 
Congress setting a less price upon them and shortening the time of for- 
bearance to use the navigation of the M. He was willing to give his 
vote for a treaty with Sp and , a stipulation to forbear navigating the 
river for 12 years but on this express condition that Congress would agree 
to sell the lands in the W Country for 7 dollars an acre, and immediately 
open an office for the disposal of them by indiscriminate location. 

Gen St. Clair was of opinion the treaty was advantageous. We are in 
an agricultural state and stand in need of the manufactures of other 
nations to pay for which we ought to secure a market for our production. 
The treaty proposed will give us a new staple by promoting the fisheries. 
It will encourage shipbuilding and the carrying trade and consequently 
encrease the number of seamen, without which we cannot be secure or 
respectable. It is no objection with him that the immediate benefits will 
be reaped by one part of the Union. He considers it in a national view, 



440 Continental Congress 

and that the benefits reaped by one member will redound to the advantage 
of the whole Union. If one state gains an advantage by foreign com- 
merce that is quickly communicated to the rest by internal intercourse. 
If no treaty is to be made such as will be equally advantageous to all. we 
shall never make a treaty. The objection that no tariff will be agreed to 
is contrary to the terms of the treaty proposed which is to stipulate that 
it shall be formed in one year. If this be not done the treaty is broken 
and we are in the situation we were before it was made. The settling 
boundaries by commissaries is usual and found by experience to have 
been effectual for the purpose. These objections being answered and 
the treaty appearing to be advantageous it is next to be considered what 
is the value of the equivalent to be given. In his opinion it is very small, 
indeed none at all. It is or has been observed forbearing for a tern 
years the use of a right, which we do not now enjoy and which we can- 
not use, and have not power to assert. This will check the settlement of 
the Western country. Admit it does. This he considers as advantageous 
to the Union. Our country is too thin of inhabitants; we have not hands 
sufficient for the cultivation of our lands much less for manufactures 
of the most necessary kind, emigration therefore in our present situation 
is hurtful, and the settlemt. of the western country still more so as 
civilization and government does not advance with the settlers. But 
considered in another view the equivalent if accepted on the terms offered 
is a real advantage and an acquisition to the U S. We contend for a 
common right of navigating the river, Sp. claims the exclusive right 
If Sp. enters into a treaty with us and grants us advantages in trade on 
condition that we forbear for a limited time the exercise of our right, 
She by that yields her exclusive claim and confirms our right. So that 
should she attempt to exclude us and we be obliged to enter into a war 
with her on this acco't, all the world must admit the justice of our Cause : 
and hence the equivalent proposed far from being a sacrifice ought to be 
considered as an advantage gained by the U S. 



475. The Virginia Delegates, Motion. 1 

[August 18, 1786.] 2 
In com'ee of the Whole August 1786 

Motion by the delegates of Virginia 

Whereas difficulties have taken place in the Negotiation between the 
hon'ble Mr. Jay Secretary for foreign Affairs on the part of the I S 
and Don Diego de Gardoqui Encargado de Negocios of Spain upon 

[475] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson (laid in). 

'Monroe remarks in his letter to Jefferson Aug. 19 (no. 477, post) that, on 
Aug. 18, when Congress was in committee of the whole on the Spanish question, "We 
stated however in the close of the day that we would agree that a treaty be formd upon 
the following conditions", and then summarizes these propositions. With .some additional 
clauses they are included in the Virginia motion Aug. 29, when the report of the com- 
mittee of the whole was under debate (Journals, pp. 591-592). According to Thom 
Minutes of Aug. 21 (no. 481, post) the Virginia delegates on that day made a motion that 



August, 1/86 441 

points respecting the navigation of the Mississippi and the boundaries, 
which it is highly for the interest of both countries should be amicably 
settled; and whereas it is the earnest desire of the U S to cultivate the 
friendship of the Catholic King and they are willing, to obtain this 
important end, to make such concessions on their part as the most essential 
interests of the several Members of the confederation and their consti- 
tutional rights admit of ; therefore Resolved That the Charge des Affaires 
at the court of Spain be instructed to assure his Catholic Majesty of the 
high regard the U S entertain for his friendship and of their earnest 
desire to cultivate and preserve always' the best understanding between 
his Majesty and the said U. S. That as an evidence of this disposition 
they are willing upon the subject of the Mississippi that a treaty be formed 
upon the following principles 

i. That New Orleans be made an Entrepot for the reception of the 
bona fide produce of the U S brought down the Mississippi by the Citizens 
of the U S, such produce to be landed at said port for exportation; that 
the said citizens be at liberty to return with their boats empty or with 
passengers only up the Mississippi to the places from whence they came. 

2. That such produce aforesaid shall pay there at the time of the exporta- 
tion a duty not exceeding [blank] per centum ad valorem to the crown 
of Spain. 

3. That such produce aforesaid shall be exported thence in Spanish, 
American or french bottoms; those in the bottoms of Spain under the 
regulations of Spain and those in the bottoms of America and France 
under the regulations of the two countries by treaty or otherwise. 

4. That imports of every kind and country to the said port and up 
the said river in American and french bottoms be prohibited and that 
all vessells engaged in transportation of such exports shall come to the 
said port in balast only. 

5. That the U S be authorised to appoint a consul to reside at New 
Orleans who shall be responsible for any violation of the stipulations by 
the citizens of the U S. 

6. That American factors be permitted to reside at said port for the 
management of the business of exportation only. 

7. That the said treaty shall continue in force for the term of [blank] 
years. 

8. That as to the boundaries they must insist his Majesty will accede 
to those defined in their treaty with G Britain. 

And farther to assure his Majesty that so soon as instructions shall 
be given to his Minister in these states to this effect the U S. will authorise 
their secretary to conclude a treaty in conformity therewith; but that 

a minister or envoy be sent to Spain. The above motion proposes instructions to the 
charge d'affaires at the court of Spain, while in the letter to Jefferson Monroe states 
that it was in the plan not only to transfer the negotiations to Madrid, but to put them into 
the hands of Jefferson and Adams. Cf. Pinckney's motion Aug. 28 (Journals, p. 569) for 
repealing Jay's commission and instructions, and the like proposition in the Virginia 
motion Aug. 29 (p. 593). 



442 Continental Congress 

they cannot enter into any treaty or compact whatsoever with his Catholic 
Majesty on the said subjects upon any other terms or conditions what- 
soever. 8 

8 The principal part of this proposition of the Southern delegates was a few days 
later delivered to the French charge d'affaires and by him transmitted to Vergennes Aug. 
23 (Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 384). Otto's letter otherwise casts such 
light on the situation in Congress that it is here included (see also nos. 496, note 6, 614, note 
8, post) : 

" My Lord: For more than a year Mr. Gardoqui has been negotiating with Mr. Jay 
a commercial treaty, and to-day is no further advanced than on his arrival here. Many 
circumstances conduce to this delay which I think proper to explain. 

" The northern states, which in all the commercial negotiations recognise no other interest 
than that of their fisheries, would be well disposed to conclude with Mr. Gardoqui if the 
delegates from the South did not propose as a condition sine qua non the opening of the 
Mississippi. 

"In consequence of this difference of sentiment and interest, the delegates of the five 
southern states have formed a league to break off completely every negotiation with Mr. 
Gardoqui. They publicly assert that that minister has no powers (to conclude a treaty), 
that this whole affair is in the hands of Mr. de Galvez, and that in general a negotiation 
of this importance ought not to be entered on in America, since the ease with which in a 
republic the dispositions of the sovereign body are ascertained gives great advantages to 
a foreign minister, who on his part conceals with the greatest care the instructions and the 
ultimatum of his court. 

" They fear, moreover, that the indifference of the northern states to the navigation of 
the Mississippi will cause them to urge on the negotiation; and that they will find means 
to secure votes, to the prejudice of the southern states. In open congress they have asserted 
that France alone could succeed in procuring for them a treaty of commerce with Spain, 
and that they should negotiate with that power in vain without the mediation of their 
great ally. 

" In the midst of this fermentation the leaders of this party came to me to explain to me 
the necessity of having recourse to your good offices, and of putting this negotiation into 
the hands of his Majesty. 

" ' The navigation of the Mississippi,' they said to me, ' is perhaps the most important 
object for the United States; the inhabitants of the vast and fertile region* of Kentucky. 
and of the neighboring countries, have no other outlet than New Orleans. If congress is 
unable to procure for them an entrepot in that city, they will regard its protection as 
wholly useless, and we are informed, in the most positive manner, that they are disposed 
to separate from the confederation and to throw themselves into the arms of England, in 
order, through the lakes and the river St. Lawrence, to gain the outlet which is refused 
them on the Mississippi side. 

"'In this case it will be easy for Great Britain to exchange Gibraltar for West Florida, 
and to make the whole interior of America dependent upon her. We earnestly desire to be 
in intimate relations with Spain, but we are at the same time convinced that without the 
support of France we shall never be able to negotiate with success. Some of the northern 
delegates, and especially Mr. Jay, wished to persuade us that France was opposed to the 
opening of the Mississippi ; but we know that peace has brought about a new order of 
affairs, and that the objections which your court made to our pretensions can no longer be 
based upon the same principle. Only the Count Vergennes can procure for us the ad- 
vantages we desire; we have written this to Mr. Jefferson, under an injunction of sec 
and we wish that your court may make our treaty for us, or that no treaty at all be made.' 

"After having declared to me many other motives leading them to wish for this mea 
they communicated to me in writing the following articles, which should serve as a basis 
for the negotiation : 

" 1. All the commodities and productions of interior America to descend the Mississippi 
in flat-boats to New Orleans, which will be entrepot for those commodities, and will serve 
only for exportations. 

" 2. The Americans to pay, on their arrival at New Orleans, a duty of two and a half 
per cent on the value of their goods, which duty will take the place of compensation for 
the favor asked of Spain. 

" 3. An American consul to reside in that city, and to be personally responsible for all 
that may be contraband. 

" 4. The said commodities to be re-exported from New Orleans only in French, Spanish, 
or American bottoms. 



August, 1/86 443 

476. The Secretary of Congress to Walter Livingston and 

Comfort Sands. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

August 19th, 1786. 
Gentlemen, 

I have received a letter from Mr. Gerry in answer to mine of the 2d 
informing him of his being appointed to determine on your claims, and 
am sorry to find that " it is utterly out of his power to attend to the 
business : " For your further information I herewith enclose you a copy 
of his letter. 2 

477. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, Augt. 19, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

My last advis'd you of the [progres of Spanish negotiation until that 
time. The reference of Jays letter to a committee] was I believe the point 
at wh. [it rested] but to enable you to form a satisfactory opinion [of 
the object of that letter I transcribe you only] operative [paragraph] 
in it. 2 " [I take the liberty therefore of] submitting to the [consideration] 
of [Congress whether it might not be advisable to appoint a committee 
with power to instruct and direct me on every point and subject relative 
to the proposed treaty with Spain.]" You are to observe [his only ulti- 

" 5. Importations of every sort to be prohibited, and no boat to ascend the Mississippi 
except flat-boats which have served to transport goods to New Orleans, and these empty, 
or at most carrying only passengers. 

" 6. Spain to permit French and American merchants to reside in New Orleans, to deal 
in the aforesaid commodities. 

" 7. France to share in this commerce because of her mediation. 

" In making these communications to me, my lord, the delegates begged me to transmit 
them to you at once, at the same time enjoining upon me the most profound secrecy to- 
ward Mr. Gardoqui and all persons who might speak to me of this negotiation. Without 
giving them any hope, and conforming to the orders which you thought proper to give me, 
that I should not interfere with the affairs of Spain, I said to them that they might rely 
upon my discretion, and that I would communicate to you the confidential conversation 
which they had held with me. 

" They wish to give powers to Mr. Jefferson to negotiate the treaty at Madrid, but to 
instruct him in the most positive manner to conform entirely to your counsels, and to take 
no step without your consent. They already have seven states on their side, and if they 
can gain two more, which is very likely, Mr. Jefferson will receive his instructions at once. 

" I have had this conference only a few hours before the departure of the packet ; it is 
possible that the passion of the delegates who spoke with me may have led them to exag- 
gerate some details. I shall be careful to animadvert in the future upon any points which 
appear to me susceptible of correction, without losing sight of the reserve and circum- 
spection which you have enjoined upon me." 

[476] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 85. 

2 The letter to Gerry Aug. 2 was nearly identical with the letter to William 
Churchill Houston Dec. 5, 1785. See no. 299, note 2, ante. Gerry's letter to Secretary 
Thomson, dated Aug. II, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 137, vol. III., f. 833. See no. 733, 
post. 

[477] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings I. 153; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, II. 381. 

2 Monroe apparently had in mind his letter pf June 16, as well as that of July 16 
(nos. 425, 443, ante). Cf. nos. 408, 459, 463, 466, ante, 479, 480, 485, post. Words in square 
brackets are written in cipher. Probably Monroe meant to write, "I transcribe for you the 
only operative paragraph in it ". 

35 



444 Continental Congress 

mata were] respecting [the Mississippi and the boundaries : the committee] 
consisting of [a member from Massachusetts Pennsylvania] and myself 
[kept it about two months] and at length two of them [reported that they 
be discharged the letter referd to a committee of the whole and himself 
orderd to attend]. 8 It was agreed to with this alteration that [he attend 
Congress] to explain [the difficulties stated in his letter] and to lay 
[before them a state of negotiation. He accordingly came and being 
aware objections would be made to his entering into debate produced a 
long written speech which he read by virtue of his office] and which 
was [in substance as follows.* France against our right to the navigation 
of the Mississippi and in case of a variance with Spain upon that point 
against us]. Well to be on good terms with [Spain] therefore on that 
acct, as well as to avail ourselves of her [influence in the councils] of 
[Portugal the Italian states] and [the Barbary powers as also] in [those] 
of [France herself] ; that [Great Britain would rejoice] to see [us at 
variance] with [Spain] and therefore wo'd [foment dissentions] bet'n 
us that in case [this treaty failed Spain mortified and disappointed] in 
the eyes of [all Europe] wo'd enter engagements with [Britain] (or in 
resentment) [so as to exclude us from her ports]. For [these reasons] 
and fully to obtain the confidence and good wishes of [that power] as 
also [her] good services in the lines aforesaid he [thought it wise to 
forbear the use] of [the navigation of Mississippi] for [twenty five 
years] or [thirty] if necessary, as a condition to obtain at the same time 
the following [liberal articles] as the [basis] of a [commercial treaty] — 
I. [all commercial regulations shall be reciprocal Spanish merchants] 
in the [ports of America] 8 and [American merchants] in those of 
[Spain] and [the Canaries] to have the [rights of native merchants] 
of [the] two [countrys]. 2. To establish [consuls] in [their respective 
countrys]. 3. [The bona fide manufactures and productions] of both 
parties tob'o 8 excepted to be admitted into the ports aforesaid] in [the 
vessels] of both parties upon the [same footing] as if they were their 
[own manufactures] and [productions] ; and further that all [such 
dutys] and [imposts] as [may mutually] be thought necessary to [lay] 
on them [by either party] shall be regulated on [principles of exact 
reciprocity] by a [tariff] to be formed within one [year from the ratifi- 
cation of this treaty] and in the mean time they shall severally [pay in 
the ports of each other those of natives only.] 4. [Masts] and [timber 
for the navy] to be [bought provided] they be as [cheap] as in [other 
countrys]. This was the amt. of his communications as to [the project] 
which [he urged] our adopting by [all the arguments he could think of] 
such as we [can't obtain the use] and therefore of no consequence — [\\\- 
must now decide] must terminate in accommodation, [war, or disgrace, 

8 Jay's letter, dated May 29, is in the Journals under May 31. It was referred to 
King, Pettit, and Monroe, and it was King and Pettit who proposed the discharge of the 
committee and the reference of the matter to the committee of the whole. See no. 447, ante. 
Cf. nos. 408, 425, 470, ante. 

« Jay's speech is recorded in the Journals under Aug. 3. 

■ There is no cipher for "America ", although clearlv intended. 

• That is, tobacco. 



August, 1786 445 

the last the worst, the second unprepard for the third the preferable 
course] — that we sho'd avail ourselves of [the moment or Britain would] 
therefore no [time to lose], with others of the same kind. This [subject] 
hath since the above [communication engaged the attention of Congress] 
for [ten days past]. The [delegates of Massachusetts] who [are his 
instruments on the floor] movd [in committee] to [repeal his ultimata] 
with a view of suffring [him to proceed at pleasure] and upon this point 
hath [the debate turnd]. T It hath been manifest [they have had through- 
out seven states and we five they to Pennsylvania inclusive] and [Dela- 
ware] being [absent] the [rest against him] ; we deny [the right] in 
[seven states] to [alter] an [instruction] so as to make it [a new one] 8 
but they will proceed [be that] as it may, [the treaty] in that event be 
formed and soon [presented for ratification]. To prevent this we [have 
told them we would] give notice to [the secretary] of the incompetency 
of his [powers] as also [to the resident] of [Spain] to [justify Congress 
in refusing] to [ratify] if they sho'd chuse it. 9 In this state it [remaind] 
without any new [proposition] untill yesterday being friday. [We stated 
however in the close of the day] that [we] would agree that [a treaty] 
be [formd upon the following conditions] : That [exports be admitted 
thro the Mississippi paying at New Orleans a duty] of [two] and [half 
per cent ad valorem to Spain] to be carried thence in [Spanish, American] 
and [French bottoms], that [imports] be [prohibited] in that line. If 
this sho'd be adopted [we propose] to [change the scene of negotiation] 
and to carry it to [Madrid], to take it out of the present and put it into 
[yours] and [Adams's hands]. 10 we fear however, and with too much 
reason, that this will fail — nothing [could have been more unfortunate 
than even the] agitation of this subject [it hath lessend the] ground on 
which we stood and [given Spain] hopes [she had no] reason to calculate 
on what prospects to [the general interest] might be calculated on as 
resulting from the [deliberations of the convention] at [Annapolis] 
must be [diminishd] In short [the measure] strikes me as every way 
[highly injurious]. lam [sorry] to [inform you] that [our affairs] are 
[daily falling into a worse situation] arising more from [the intrigues 
of designing men than any real defect in our system or distress of] our 
[affairs]. The same [party] who [advocate] this business have cer- 
tainly [held] in this [city committees] for [dismembering the con- 
federacy] and throwing [the states eastward the Hudson into] one 
[government]. As yet this business hath [not gone far] but that there 
sho'd be a [party in its] favor and [a man] heretofore [so well respected] 
but in my opinion so little known engag'd in it, [is to me very alarming]. 11 
Congress have ag'n requir'd money for the insuing year, including that 

7 The motion, drawn by Rnfus King, appears to have been made in the committee 
of the whole Aug. 10. See the Journals, p. 510 n., and no. 459, ante. As reported by the 
committee of the whole it is recorded under Aug. 28. 

8 See no. 470, ante ; also Pinckney's motion, in the Journals Aug. 30. 

9 See the Virginia motion, in the Journals Aug. 29. 

10 See no. 475, ante, and no. 481, post. Monroe appears to have submitted the propo- 
sition also to Lambert Cadwalader. See nos. 478, 479, post. Cf. the Journals, Aug. 29. 

11 Cf. nos. 455, 463, ante. The identity of the person alluded to has not been 
determined. 



446 Continental Congress 

part of the principal of the foreign loans that becomes due in that time. 12 
All the States except New York and Pena. have acceded to the impost 
to the acceptation of Congress, the former hath granted the revenues 
accruing from it, but hath not made the collectors so amenable to Congress 
as the system requires and the other states have done, and Pena. hath 
granted the impost but suspended its operation untill all the states shall 
have granted the supplemental funds ; a committee is appointed to attend 
the legislature of Pena. on this subject, and recommendation pass'd to 
the Executive of New York to convene the legislature to take the sd. 
system again into consideration — they meet in the usual term in the fall 
or commencement of the winter. 18 They have pass'd an ordinance regu- 
lating the coin. 14 .... your late communications on the commerc'l 
subject have given great satisfaction to Congress, we hope the monopoly 
Of our tob'o in the hands of the farmers gen'l will ultimately be abolish'd. 
The services of Mon'r La Fayette are acknowledg'd with gratitude by 
Congress. 15 .... 

478. Lambert Cadwalader to James Monroe. 1 

Dear Sir, 

I have considered the proposed Plan with all the attention I am capable 
of, and am happy to find, that a Temperament, so favorable to your View s 
and my own Sentiments, will be adopted by your Delegation; I think, 
however, that a firm, and efficient Stipulation, should be required of Spain, 
in which, she should engage that no Merchandize, or Commodities what- 
soever, should be permitted to be laden in the Return-Boats, as it would 
deprive the Atlantic States of the Benefit they derive, from the Sale of 
Manufactures for the Consumption of the Inhabitants of the western 
Territory, and for the Indian Trade. 

It is a moot Point with me, whether it will be more for our advantage 

to treat in Europe, than America, as the Intelligence to be communicated 

by Mr. Gardoqui to his Court will be the Groundwork of the Treaty on 

their Part. It is from this Source they must draw all their Information — 

without it, in my Opinion, they will not venture to conclude a Treaty 

which they deem of so great Importance to their Possessions on this 

Continent. 8 T ™ c . , 

I am D r Sir sincerely yours — 

Aug. 20. 86. L Cadwalader 

479. James Monroe to George Washington. 1 

Dear General, X,:w V " RK A «#- 2 °« ^ 

May I take the liberty of our former acquaintance to confer with you 

freely upon the following propositions — you seem'd satisfied with those 

12 The requisition was adopted Aug. 2. See nos. 452, 459, 462, 466, ante. 
l * See nos. 459, 469, 473, ante. The committee, appointed Aug. 14, were King and 
Monroe. See further nos. 485, 488, 489, 493, 499, 500, post. 
J * See the Journals, Aug. 8, and nos. 462, 471, ante. 
18 See nos. 422, 456, ante. 
[478] x Library of Congress, Monroe Papers. 

2 See nos. 475, 477 (note 8), ante, 481, 553, post. 
[479] ' Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 



August, 1786 447 

presented to the view of Congress on friday by Colo. Grayson vis. that 
exports be admitted down the Mississippi to N. Orleans as an entrepot — 
to pay there a duty of 2.\ pr. cent'm or more if necessary to the crown 
of Spain ad valorem — to be carried thence in Sp'h, Americand [sic] 
french vessels to other countries — that imports be prohibited — in short 
that any arrangements on this subject be made wh. shall hold up the 
U.S. to those people, our ultra-montane brethren, as the patrons of their 
interest, and not give the sanxtion [sic] of Congress to a measure which 
suspends for a day expressly their just rights — with these objects in view 
we will go as far as those who are the most anxious to obtain a Spanish 
treaty and cultivate the good wishes of that branch of the house of 
Bourbon. The point then upon which I wish particularly to consult you 
is simply this — the puting [sic] the negotiation of this treaty in the 
hands of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Adams, that the former be instructed to 
repair to Madrid under the mediation of France for that purpose in 
character of Envoy extraordinary. This I presume may be done without 
giving offence to the gentn. here, either Mr. Jay or Gardoqui, since it 
is in difficulties of this kind the usage of courts to proceed thus, and this 
line of negotiation must be particularly respectful to the court of Spain 
as it will be the highest evidence of our disposition of it as well from the 
manner as the terms upon which we are willing to make the treaty. With- 
out this believe me I have the most satisfactory evidence nothing will be 
done. Mr. Jay has within my knowledge since Deer, last been negotiating 
with Congress to repeal his instructions (or rather with particular num- 
bers) so as to occlude the Mississippi, and not with Spain to open it. I 
trust you have sufficient knowledge of me to be satisfied I wo'd not make 
this allegation if I had not the most satisfactory evidence in my own mind 
of what I say. This evidence you shall possess whenever you please. I 
therefore calculate with certainty upon losing every thing whilst the 
business is in his hands. 2 If in this free communication, I deviate from 
any of those rules of friendship and respect I have always entertain'd 
for you, and which I mean this as an evidence of, you will attribute it to 
no motive of that kind since I am not influenced by it. I am Dear Sir 
with real esteem and regard yr. very humble servt. 

Jas. Monroe 

480. William Samuel Johnson, Speech in Congress. 1 

[August 21, 1786.] 2 
Xot going into arg[umen]t 3 well discussed. Talent[e]d [?] and 
Temp[e]r[ate] — Impart [ial]. A Barg[ai]n or Cont[rac]t Sp[ain] 
is sup[pose]d to off[er] — Trade for Mass[issippi]. is it a good Bar- 

2 See no. 477, ante. 
[480] a Library of Congress, W. S. Johnson MSS. 

2 It is assumed that this speech was made on Aug. 21 because Thomson's notes 
of that day (no. 481, post) name Johnson as one of the speakers. Moreover, there are in 
the speech two references to St. Clair's speech on the 18th (see no. 474, ante). 

3 As in the case of Johnson's Notes of Debates (no. 472, ante), it has been deemed 
advisable to expand all abbreviations. 



448 Continental Congress 

g[ain]. The Trade admit[te]d Benif [icia]l. It is all we have— all we can 
Hope. Trade benef[icia]l to one part of the Union benef[icia]l to all, 
for we are one Body. The Wealth of Georg[i]a is mine as a mem [be] r 
of the confed[erac]y. It has been shewn how Benef[icia]l This Posi- 
t[io]n clear the Trade of Sp[ai]n benef[icia]l to this Union and 
evferyl Individ[ua]l of it. But the obj[ectio]n here is you will have 
it with[ou]t a Treaty, it is the Int[eres]t of Sp[ain] Perhaps we shall. 
But is it not better to have it of Right than at Will — as found [e]d on 
Cont[rac]t than depend[in]g on Caprice. Surely it is! Thus far then 
the adv[ocate]s for the Treaty seem conclusively to have the argum[en]t 
— and if it was simply proposed no man here would refuse it so far from 
it he would think it a great blessing to this Country. 

But you may buy Gold too Dear. This the stress of the arg[umen]t. 
We must make too great a sacrif [ic]e to obt[ai]n this Boon. We must 
give up the Mass[issipp]i for 20 y[ea]rs. But is it so? Is it y[ou]rs to 
give? That is mine absolutely wh[ic]h I have a right to Use and can I 
Can you say this of the Mass[issipp]i — This has been ably stated at first, 
and I wish I co[ul]d say it has been answ[ere]d. but I think it has not I 
fear it cannot be answ[ere]d. If it cannot it concludes the arg[umen]t. 
If you can't use the Miss[issipp]i for 20 y[ea]rs It is not y[ou]rs to 
give. When you agree to not to use it you sacrif [ic]e noth[in]g. This 
too ans[were]d as was observ[e]d. every arg[umen]t Depr[eciatio]n 
of west[er]n Land Injury to Virg[ini]a etc. etc. They all fall before 
it. you give up then only a Right to go to War for 20 y[ear]s. This is a 
benefit not a loss. The only seem[in]g [ ?] ans[we]r is that Brit[ai]n 
will aid us to open it. But this has been fully ans[were]d by Penfnsyl- 
vani]a.* But with whatever aid we ought not to go into a War for 20 
y[ear]s at least. It will ruin us. But there is anoth[e]r branch of this 
arg[umen]t upon the Right which has been ment[ione]d by the ad[vo- 
catejs for the Treaty but may be carr[ie]d farther than they have pushed 
it — and has not been ans[were]d by their opponents. What part of l\i^ r ht 
is it. The Gen [era] 1 Right in these cases is the ownership of the Land 
on both sides the River. This belongs to Sp[ain]. But we have a Right 
under the Treaty with Brit [ai]n. This all our Tit [le]. But Sp[ain] says 
Brit[ain] would not grant it for 2 Reas[on]s. 1st. It was a partic[ula]r 
grant to her in Xat[ur]e of a personal grant which she co[ul]d not 
transfer. It was not to her and her assigns If so we could take nothing 
by the Brit [is] h grant. But 

2ly. Supp[os]e they will say, That Britt[ai]n once had such a Right 
as was capab[l]e of being grant [e]d, yet we took it from her before the 
end of the War The Floridas were conq[uere]d and all the Rights of 
Britt[ai]n in that Quart[e]r fin[al]ly revested in Spain. This reasoning 
is at least plausible. I do not say it is conclusive, on the cont[rar]y I 
think the right of the U.S. may be established in <>i>i>osit[io]n to it. But 
at best it admits of much dispute. Thus circumstance ]<1 is it not a \ 
desirable obj[ec]t to obtain a confirmation of this Right. Surely it 

* St. Gair's speech Aug. 18, as summarized by Thomson (no. 474, ante), does not 
include a discussion of the possibility of British aid. See note 5, below. 



August, 1786 449 

must! as it must put an end to all fut[u]r[e] altercat[io]n. This the 
prop[ose]d Treaty will effect. For as has been obs[erve]d the accep[t- 
anc]e of Sp[ain] will admit the Right and in fut[u]r[e] estoops 
[estops] her from saying U.S. have none. Pens[ylvani]a then had good 
right to say you do not give up a Right you rather acquire one. 5 

But Ind[ependen]t of all that has been said as the arg[umen]t is 
rested chiefly upon the Injury it will do Virg[ini]a and the S[outher]n 
States, This point sho[ul]d be clearly established which I have not yet 
seen done. If gent[lemen] speak farther upon the subject they will 
apply themselv[e]s to do this. At present I think for 20 years there 
will be little Use for the Miss[issipp]i and I rely upon this that whenever 
it shall be really essential to the well-being of that Peop[l]e wheth[e]r 
befTor]e or after 20 y[ea]rs, Treaty or no Treaty, It will be opened. 
Neith[e]r Sp[ain] nor U.S. can prevent it. The Peop[l]e will no more 
be restrained than those Migh[t]y Waters can be confin[e]d by a Dam. 
I do not there f [or]e see the Dang[e]r of the Treaty. We secure a present 
and immed[iat]e good of no small amount at most at the exp[ens]e of 
remote and possible evils which may never be realized. In such cases 
all 6 sound Politicians decide in fav[o]r of the meas[u]r[e]. This can 
never shake the Union. I rely upon the good sense and jus [tic] e of our 
South [er]n Brethern. Let the matter be fairly stated to them as it is 
here, they will decide as we do, that it is best for the whole, and there- 
f [or]e in a polit[ic]al sense best for every Individ [ua]l. Gen [era] 1 Good 
must be attend [e]d w[it]h part[ia]l evil and Inconvenience. It is so in the 
gov[ernmen]t of the univ[ers]e — a frat[ern]i[ty] If I verily tho[ugh]t 
it would Depreciate in a degree the Connecticut] Lands yet I sho[ul]d 
conceive we ought to sacrif [ic]e the add[itiona]l Profit we might make 
to so benef [icia]l a Treaty, and to the gen [era] 1 good. I hope oth[e]r 
Gent[leme]n will entertain the same Ideas and act upon them. 

The Ramificat[ion]s of the arg[umen]t unnecess[ar]y to be pursued. 
These the great Points on them we shall — I hope We shall decide with 
that candor Imp[artialit]y and Firm[nes]s of sound Polit[ic]s and good 
Patriots. 

481. Charles Thomson, Minutes of Proceedings. 1 

[August 21, 22, 1786.] 
Monday 21 In Com'ee of the whole. 

Delegates of Virga. moved to send a minister or envoy to Sp., to propose 
N. O. to be a free port for produce of upland country etc. — 

The arguments on both sides again repeated by Grayson Monroe and 
Carrington on one side, Johnson Sedgwick and King on the other. A doubt 
started by Mr. Bloodworth of the power of Congress to dismember the 
empire. This gave the argument a new turn. 2 

5 See the conclusion of St. Clair's speech. 

6 The word " all " is blotted, possibly with the intention to delete. 
[481 p Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, Misc. 

2 See nos. 475, 477, 478, ante, and the minutes for Aug. 22. 



450 Continental Congress 

22 Again in Com'ee of the whole. 

The delegates of Virga. forward their motion amended, a long sp: by 
Monroe and Carrington. The delegates of Mass : amended their motion. 
Grayson against the power of Congress. 

482. James Manning to Samuel Jones. 1 

My dear Sir, NeW YoRK 2 3 d Au ^ st - ^ 

Your mortifying favour of the 20th Inst, just now came to hand. 
On Thirsday last I was attacked with a vomiting and purging which for- 
bid my attempting to leave home. Besides a great national Question 
was pending before Congress, from which I could not have been absent, 
if able to sit in the house, which I could scarcely do, without incurring 
the displeasure of more than half this Confederacy. 2 .... 

.... Probably I shall leave this City by this day week and not 
before 

483. The Secretary of Congress to the Inhabitants of the 

Kaskaskias. 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

Gentlemen, **' ** ' 

I have the honor to inform you that the Extracts from your Registers 
dated the 10 Novr. 1784 and 2 June 1786 have been duly rece'd and com- 
municated to the United States in Congress Assembled, and I have it in 
command further to inform you that Congress have under consideration 
the plan of a temporary government for said district of Country where 
you reside and that its adoption will be no longer protracted than the 
importance of the subject and a due regard to your interest may require. 2 

[Addressed :] 

The Inhabitants of Kaskaskies and the neighbouring Villages * 

N B sent to the P Master at Philadelphia to be forwarded by the way of 
Pittsburg. 

[482] l Brown Univ. Lib., Manning Papers. 

2 The Mississippi question was then before the committee of the whole. See nos. 
475. 477 (note 7), 481, ante, 485, 492, 495, post. The principal omission concerns Man- 
ning's desperate efforts to find Mr. Jones, in accordance with an engagement made in his 
letter of Aug. 3 (no. 450, ante). 

On Aug. 23 Secretary Thomson transmitted to the states a continuation of the Journal? 
from June 1 to Aug. 8. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 86; Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 50; 
N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 720. 

[483] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 86. 

2 Between " interest " and " may require " the following is erased : " of the good 
people the Inhabitants of the Kaskaskies and the neighbouring villages ". See the 
Journals, Aug. 23, 24, Sept. 18, 19. 

• Preceding the address is this erasure : " Mons. Langlois Notary and Rep 
To be communicated to the good people ". The notary who had attested the petition of 
the inhabitants of the Kaskaskias was Pierre Langlois. 

Thomson's letter was written in compliance with instructions Aug. 24, consequent upon 
a partial report of a committee of long standing, but prompted by a petition dated June j. 
1786, which was read in Congress Aug. 23. The petition is printed in Illinois Historical 



August, 1/86 451 

484. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

New York 24 Augt., 1786. 
Dear sir, 

This is to acknowledge the rect. of your favours of the 10th 12th and 
14th of Augt. current to which I can at present make no answer for want 
of time : only to say Congress are very ardently engaged in very important 
matters and much divided : so that I fear I shall not get off so soon as I 
intended : and that I shall not be at Dover Court. But I shall be more 
particular in my next. 

485. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

August 24th 1786, New York. 
Dear Sir, 

Congress has been for some time in a Committee of the whole on the 
subject of Instruction to the Secrutary of foreign affairs, in his negoci- 
ation with a foreign Minister, the perticulars is confind to the Cabinet, 
the committee Divided Yesterday on the Question, and seven states 
appear'd for the propos'd Instruction, and five, against it. next Monday 
the subject will com under consideration in Congress, how it will end 
remains Uncertain, it has been Debated with som warmth in the Com- 
mittee, and every argument advanced pro, and con. however all reasoning 
fall prostrate before Interest, nor is Justice and propriety free from the 
attack when supported by Federal Compact, the United force of which, I 
fear will be insufficient to confine in proper limits, this great ruler of 
human Actions, it appears to be the policy of the Eastern States to 
embarrass the Western Country, to prevent emigration. 2 Congress som 
time past recommended to the Governor of New York to convene the 
Assembly for the purpose of altering the impost, which he refus'd. Yester- 
day after the Committee rose, this matter was Debated, and the Impost 

Collections, V. 381-383. Concerning the action of Congress on a memorial of Nov. 10, 
1784, see no. 156, note 5, ante, where it is noted that a committee report of Mar. 14, 1785, 
respecting a temporary government for the inhabitants of the Illinois country, lay dormant 
for a whole year. On Mar. 27, 1786, that report was referred to a committee, with in- 
structions " to consider and report forms of government to be instituted in the Western 
territory of the United States by Congress prior to the institution of temporary govern- 
ment there " under the act of Apr. 23, 1784. Respecting the committee's deliberations see 
no. 373, ante. See also nos. 394, 425, ante. On May 10 the committee reported " The Plan 
of a Temporary Government ", which included certain provisions respecting the Kaskas- 
kias, etc. It was this plan, which is found in the Journals under May 10 and in an amended 
form under July 13, that is referred to by Thomson as under consideration of Congress 
when he wrote this letter. On Sept. 18 the committee on the subject was reconstituted, 
and on the 19th the new committee presented a plan, but it was essentially the same plan 
as that proposed by the predecessor committee, with only a few modifications. The sub- 
ject was further considered Sept. 29 and Oct. 4, but apparently not until fresh troubles 
arose in the spring of 1787 did Congress again give special consideration to the French 
settlements. See nos. 613, 623, 646, 647, 650, post. 

[484] x Library of Congress, New Hampshire Papers, Misc. 

[485] 1 Library of Congress, Personal, Bloodworth; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 720. 
2 See nos. 475, 477 (note 7), 481, 482, ante, the Journals, Aug. 23, 26, 29, 30, 31, 
Sept. 1, also nos. 490, 497. 508, post. 



452 Continental Congress 

of New York was rejected, and the recommendation renew'd, which I 
thought improper as there is not the least probability of his complying, 
deeming the measure unwarrantable by the constitution. 3 Inclos'd you 
have the orders of the Board of Treasury to Mr. Hindman. this Gentle- 
man came to this Town soon after the coppy of the Letters sent by Mr. 
Child, which I lay'd before the Board without los of time, and receive! 
the answare inclos'd. 4 I am extreemly anxious to hear of Coll : Blounts 
coming forward, necessity demands my return as soon as the Interest 
of my Country will admit, hope I shall be relieved by the Last of October 
If not sooner. I remain with the highest Esteem and regard 
Your Excellencies, Most obedient and Very Humble Servant 

Timothy Bloodworth 

486. The Secretary of Congress to the Reverend John Ettwein. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congri t! 

August 26th, 1786. 
Reverend Sir, 

Upon receiving your letter of the 1st I did myself the Honor of 
immediately communicating it to the United States in Congress assembled, 
who have thereupon been pleased to pass a resolution respecting the Indian 
Congregation, a Copy of which is herewith enclosed. 

I most heartily join you in prayer to God that " He may grant these poor 
sufferers a time of peace and rest after so many tribulations, that other 
Heathens may see the great difference of a Civilised Christian life and 
the life of Savages ". 

Please to convey to the Reverend D. Zeisberger my sincere respects and 
the esteem I have for his zeal and perseverance in the good work in which 
he has so long been engaged, I hope he will continue to the end and that 
his labours will be crowned with success. 8 
With great Respect I am Revd. and Dear Sir 

Your obedient Humb'e Sent. 

C. T. 

P. S. Enclosed I also send you an ordinance passed by Congress for the 
regulation of Indian affairs, and beg leave to inform you that Richard 
Butler Esqr. (late Genl.) is appointed superintendant of Indian affairs 
for the Northern district. 8 

8 See nos. 469 (note 3), 477. ante, 489, 575. Post. 

* James Hindman was commissioner of public accounts for North Carolina. See 
the Journals, Sept. 1, 6. Caswell's reply to this letter (Sept. 24), as well as to that of 
Aug. 16 (no. 471, ante) and that of Aug. 28 (no. 400, post), is in N. C. State Recs., XVI II. 
746. 

[486] J Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 89. 

8 Ettwein' s letter of Aug. 1 was read in Congress Aug. 8 and, together with a 
letter from Josiah Harmar July 3, was referred to a committee, who reported Aug. 17. 
The report, with some modifications, was adopted Aug. 24. See nos. 513, 521, 556, post. 

8 See no. 471, ante. The ordinance for the regulation of Indian affairs was adopted 
Aug. 7, and Richard Butler was elected superintendent for the Northern district Aug. 14. 
Ettwein replied Sept. 18: 

" I receiv'd your Favour of Aug. 26th with the enclosed Resolve of Congress of the 
24th Aug : which I could not read without Tears of Joy, at the Kind Providence of God 



August, i j 86 453 

487. Samuel Livermore to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

~ _, New York 26th August 1786. 

Dear Sir, 

In answer to yours of the 14th instant I would first observe that there 
have been for sometime past 12 States in congress the whole Union except 
Delaware State. 

Their attention is taken up partly by hearing and answering petitions 
which in our General Court are pretty numerous, but necessary to ad- 
minister publick justice. Partly by makeing acts or ordinances for the 
publick good. It is not easy for you to conceive the length of time and 
debate ocupied in making an ordinance for Indian affairs. Publick treaty's 
with foreign powers and debates on certain points contained in them take 
up much time, every thing under this head is under the injunction of 
secrecy, until concluded. 

Requisition — mode of taxation — imposts additional articles to the 
confederation, to be recommended to the States for adoption present 
powers of congress in respect to certain objects have taken up much 
time. 

Western Territory — Indian war Indian treaty's coinage — commerce 
etc. etc. 

Our foreign debt or the intrest of it must doubtless be paid in solid 
coin. But that coin will not be sent from this country as I suppose. But 
our produce being sold in foreign countries must raise the cash and that 
cash be negotiated to discharge our debt. Our cash being collected in 
this country may be applied to purchase bills of credit from such american 
merchants as have sent cargoes to Holland France and Spain. Spain is 
doubtless the market for the no[r]thern States to get cash and a treaty — 
but I must be silent. No doubt you easily see an answer to your question 
abt N H or any other State paying their quota in produce — Let the pro- 
duce be sent to market in Holland France or Spain, especially the latter v 
it will raise the cash : that cash will pay the quota. 

You will ask then, shall a state turn merchant ? Perhaps they must in 
some sort. 

As to the plenty of money in this and other States, Wheat brings cash, 
so does any article for exportation. 

Cash is plenty enough for these things Paper and silver go alike here 
owing as it is said to the smallness of the quantity of paper compared to 
the quantity of silver, the goodness of its fund — double morgage — its 
being receivable in all publick payments here etc. Concerning paper in 
other States you know as much as [I do.] 2 I am urged by the no [r] them 

for the needy. I don't know how to express my Thanks to you sufficiently for your 
friendly Disposition and kind Services in the Case. Your kind Remembrance of Mr. David 
Zeisberger, I have communicated to him with the Resolve, of Congress for the Indian 
Congregation. The Indians will undoubtedly sometime next spring or sooner return 
their humble Thanks to Congress for the charitable and seasonable Help provided for 
them " (Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II.). See further no. 513, post. 
[487] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Recs., Council Corr. 1782-1788. 
2 Cf. nos. 454, 468, ante. 



454 Continental Congress 

States to remain here until certain points are obtained in congress even 
although it should defeat my attending our Superior court. I am therefore 
in a very delicate situation between two important points of duty but 
still not without hopes of effecting both. Of these anxieties however I 
perceive the publick intend soon to relieve me as they have very politely 
turned me out of the delegation and I suppose intend to starve me out of 
the office of Ch. J. But please to excuse my troubling you with wrongs 
that only touch myself. 

Your depreciation affairs has been decided against you — but it shall be 
tried once more — I have some hopes yet. Nothing shall be wanting on 
my part to effect a point in my estimation so just. 8 

Charles de la Valley's petition I have not yet presented — I intend to 
offer it but nothing can be more hopeless of success. 

I have a plan for a post rider to be established from Boston to Concord 
Exeter Portsmouth and Bath the same rout once a week which I think 
would be of great publick use, and I hope it will be effected. 

488. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

n , „ New York 26 Aug. 1786. 

L) t berry, 

. . . . 2 Inclosed you have a report which congress agreed to on the 23. 
instant — you will from this observe that we are, as the lawyers say, at 
issue with New York — the Governor it is said will not convene the Legis- 
lature. If he does not, I think I dont hazard much in saying, that he is 
the only one of the thirteen who would under similar circumstances refuse. 
I presume that I shall not be suspected of any great partiality for this State 
when it is known that I have not been the last man in urging the adoption 
of this Measure. My Idea is, that congress should do every think [sic] 
in their power for the public Good, if the misfortunes attending a want 
of national Faith and Honor must fall on our country, let the whole world 
say that congress stand acquitted. 8 

I write you currenti Calento — you will be my apologist as you are un- 
friend 

489. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

,. _, - New York 26 Aug. 1786. 

My Dr Gerry, 

I wrote you a line this morning inclosing the act of congress of the 23 

instant relative to the Grant of the impost by N York — this serves to 

8 This refers to the action July 19 on Sullivan's memorial. See no. 494, post. 
[488] > N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers; Life of King, I. 189. 

2 Omitted parts of this letter relate to the convening of the Massachusetts legis- 
lature to consider the requisition, and to the situation in Rhode Island in consequence of 
the issue of paper currency. 

8 See nos. 469, 485, ante , and the Journals, Aug. 23. On the same day Congress 
adopted resolutions "relative to the issue of Indents to the State of Pennsylvania" (see 
nos. 449, 452, 477, ante; also Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 50, 51). Cf. nos. 489. 493, 499, 500, 
503. 554, post. 

[489] l N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers. 



August, 1786 455 

accompany the Report of a Grand committee upon a very important sub- 
ject — read and examine it. I have just received a copy, and that I transmit 
to you. it may be unnecessary to remark to you that these reports ought 
not to be laid before the public, until they have reed, the approbation of 
congress, but as the subject is highly important, I possess you of a copy and 
request your examination and Remarks. 2 .... 

490. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

n . New York August 28th, 1786. 

Have Enclosed to your Excellency a letter from the Vice Consul of 
France, who Complains of the Tardy payments of our State. 2 

The public Business make slow advances, we have not yet Considered 
the Additional Articles to the Confederation, the Report of the Grand 
Committee on that subject has lain some time on the Table. 3 but the 
Grand subject of treaties has employed our deliberation for Some time 
past, and I expect will this day make its appearance in Congress, 4 am sorry 
it is not in my power to give you the particulars Consistant with the 
Rules of the House, the Eastern Delegates often Mention the Justice of 
Ceding the Western Country to Congress which I believe arises from the 
desire to have it in their power to embarrass the population of that Coun- 
try which they Seem to View with a Zealous [jealous ?] eye and Openly 
declare on the floor of Congress, their desire if possible to prevent emmi- 
gration, it appears to me expressive of that Intention but as it is yet sub- 
ject to alteration the embarrassment may be removed. 5 

•491. John Henry to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

Dear SWj New- York Aug'st 30. 1786. 

Your Excellency will perceive from the enclosed report that an appor- 
tionment of the domestic debt is in contemplation. The subject as yet 
has never been under Debate, so that it is difficult to determine what will 
be the opinion of Congress. From the Sentiments of some Gentlemen 
out of doors, the measure if not acceded to, will be at least countenanced. 2 

The operation of this system will raise the price of all public securities, 

2 The report of the grand committee referred to is doubtless that presented Aug. 7 
on amendment of the articles of Confederation. Cf. nos. 434, 471, ante, 490, 497, 506, post. 
See also Bibliographical Notes (Journals, p. 065). 

[490] * N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy) ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 
721. 

2 This letter from Petry, the vice consul of France, July 17, is ibid., p. 688. See 
also ibid., pp. 575, 587, 598, 600, 693, 740, 746, 748, 771. Cf. no. 146, note 4, ante; also no. 
615, note 8, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 471, 489, ante, 497, 506, post. 

4 The report of the committee of the whole, submitted Aug. 23, was taken into 
consideration on Monday, Aug. 28. Cf. no. 485, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Aug. 9 ; cf. nos. 443, 455, 463, 477, ante. 
UgipMd. Hist. Soc, box, 1786. 

2 This was the first of two reports by the same committee, Aug. 16, on a motion 
by Pinckney Aug. 14. Cf. the report by another committee Aug. 22. The report of Aug. 16 



45G Continental Congress 

which will in some measure defeat the object of our legislature. If it is 
possible by any means, to procure a Sum of Money, it appears to me, that 
there is no mode in which it could be so advantageously laid out, as in 
purchasing our quota of the domestic debt. The State of Pennsylvania 
has already in her hands more than her proportion, some other States are 
nearly in the same condition, all will aim at the same thing, and thereby 
produce an instantaneous rise on the value of the debt, such a one as will 
probably require double the Sum that is now requisite to secure the whole 
of our share of the debt. This is a subject of serious concern to us. I will 
therefore take the liberty of suggesting an Idea that has occurred to me, 
and upon which I have spoke confidentially to a Gentleman in this City. 
It is his opinion and also my own that by Contract, the greater part if not 
the whole of our debt, may be obtained at this Time at a very moderate 
rate. The Credit of the state is good, and if authority was given and 
confidence reposed in some individual for this purpose the most bene- 
ficial effects would be derived from it. Tobacco would be received instead 
of Money which would greatly ease our people. I expect the full plan from 
the Gentleman to whom I allude which when received shall be laid before 
your Excellency. 

Be so obliging as to let me hear from you upon this subject. 

492. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

Dear Sir, N ™ V '" <K Augt ' ,0 ' '^ 

Since my last we have been from day to day upon the business wh. 
engag'd us when you were here, they carried the repeal by 7. States in 
the Committee of the whole and afterward in the house, we mov'd to 
postpone to take into consideration the plan in conformity with the Idea 
I suggested to you, in which we enter'd into long reasoning upon the 
secry's project, proving if we were well founded, its futility, and disad- 
vantages in many instances, proposing to take the negotiation out of his 
hands, as to the Mississippi and the boundaries, commit them to our 
charge at Madrid, to agree on principles there the treaty to be concluded 
here — that 2 Com'rs be added to him to enter into the treaty and the three 
authoriz'd to form also a commerc'l treaty, to be incorporated together, 
for wh. five States voted, their repeal was afterwards carried by 7. States 
only — today, additional instructions being added to their proposition for 
repeal respecting the boundaries, form'd with the view of taking in 
Georgia, were also only carried by 7. States. The president reported today 
[from] the Chair upon the propositions altogether that the question \ 
lost, so that it now remains will Mr. Jay proceed? and I apprehend he will 
not. 2 I have avail'd myself of a few moments to drop you this and to 
assure you of my friendship and esteem. 

was printed as a broadside with that date (see Bibliographical Notes, Journals, p. 966). 
A copy (with the date torn off) is with Henry's letter in Md. Hist. Soc. See nos. 499, 
post. 

[492] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 158; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, II. 387. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 23-31, Sept. 1. Cf. nos. 459, 463, 466, 477, 479, ante, 493, 
post. 



September, 1786 457 

493. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York Sepr. 1, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Some time since I was appointed of the Committee to attend the Pena. 
Assembly, contrary to my wishes, and not being able to extricate myself 
(having apoligiz'd in the first instance upon Mrs. Monroe's indisposition 
which was not admitted in expectation of her better health) am now under 
the necessity of attending. 2 The question was not as I suppos'd taken upon 
the whole report of the Committee of the whole, but upon the subsequent 
instruction as to the boundaries only, the President stated it from the 
chair to be upon the whole, but the next day qualified it as meaning the 
whole then before the house, the other part being (as to the repeal) decided 
the day before, we suppos'd the question, having been taken upon the 
several amendments, had been, as stated above, afterwards taken on the 
whole. 3 It is enter'd in the journals as carried in the affirmative as to the 
repeal — a motion was made, is the question carried ? and laid aside by the 
previous question. It has since been made an order that we shall not move 
in form or substance any proposition which has been set aside by the pre- 
vious question, unless the same number of States are present — the State 
of R. Island, being abt. to leave the floor which their delegation accord- 
ingly did immediately. I shall set out for Phila. on Monday next, will you 
be there on my arrival ? 

494. Charles Thomson to John Sullivan. 1 

New York Sept. 2, 1786. 2 
Dear Sir, 

I have the pleasure to inform you that yesterday Congress passed a 
resolution recommending to the State of Newhampshire to pay you the 
sum of 4300 dollars in Compensation for the extraordinary expences to 
which you were exposed in the separate commands and expeditions on 
which you were employed at sundry times while in the service of the United 
States. I herewith enclose you a copy of the Act for your private 
satisfaction. 3 

[493] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 159. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 11, 14, and nos. 459, 466, 469, 473, 477, 485, 488, 489, ante. 
See further nos. 499, 500, 503, 554, post. 

3 Monroe is here alluding to a remark in his letter of Aug. 30 (no. 492, ante). 
See the Journals, Sept. 1. The order relative to the previous question was moved by 
Rufus King Aug. 31 and adopted Sept. 1. Cf. nos. 496, 499, post. 

[494] * Library of Congress, New Hampshire Papers, Misc.; ibid., Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 90. 

2 For the week ending Sept. 2 William Samuel Johnson's diary shows that he was 
"at Congress" every day except Saturday, the 2d, when he was "at Comm'ee". Aug. 31 
he "Din'd Presidents". 

3 Sullivan's memorial, Dec. 24, 1785, was read in Congress Jan. 9 and referred to a 
committee, who reported in his favor Feb. 7. At this or some other time some general 
resolutions applicable to Sullivan's case were offered, but they do not appear to have 
been acted on (see the Journals, pp. 53 n., 54 n.). On July 19 the report of Feb. 7 was 
again brought forward, was "debated and lost". See no. 487, note 3, ante. On Aug. 31 
(not "yesterday", Sept. 1) a resolution for an allowance to Sullivan was adopted. (In 
the index to the Journals the items pertaining to Gen. John Sullivan and those to Lieut. 
John Sullivan, connected with the Pennsylvania mutiny, are included under one entry.) 



458 Continental Congress 

In my public letter which accompanies this I have enclosed a copy to be 
communicated to the Legislature 4 

495. Rufus King to Jonathan Jackson. 1 
Dear Sir, New York, 3 Sep: 1786. 

Mr. Cabot's information relative to the Spanish commercial regulations 
is very satisfactory ; I find it corresponds with the best accounts I have been 
able to collect on the subject, and Mr. Gardoqui himself confirms it. 

A Treaty with Spain is at this time a desirable Event; If the present 
situation is preferable to a rupture with Spain a Treaty between us must 
not be long delayed. The boundaries of their and our territories, remain to 
be ascertained ; they claim extensive tracts of country within the limits of 
the United States as fixed by the Treaty of Peace and Friendship with 
Great Britain; we insist on the right of freely navigating the Missisippi 
from its source to the Ocean, they deny this right and refuse us the navi- 
gation where both banks are in the possession of Spain. The rapid settle- 
ment of the western country, more particularly on the Ohio and that part 
of Georgia, which is adjacent to the Mississippi, urges a decision of these 
interfering claims and Pretensions. As Time is more favorable to young 
than old nations, policy would warrant delay — but these western adven- 
turers will not suffer it. They at this time hold a bold language, are yearly 
making almost incredible accessions of strength, and their own particular 
interest is to them as to all others the active principle of their conduct. If 
therefore our disputes with Spain are not settled, we shall be obliged 
either wholly to give up the western Settlers or join them in an issue of 
Force with the Catholic King : the latter we are in no condition to think 
of, the former would be impolitic for many reasons, and cannot with 
safety be now admitted, although very few men who have examined the 
subject will refuse their assent to the opinion that every Citizen of the 
Atlantic States, who emigrates to the westward of the Allegany is a total 
loss to our confederacy. 2 

Nature has severed the two countries by a vast and extensive chain of 
mountains, interest and convenience will keep them separate, and the feeble 
policy of our disjointed Government will not be able to unite them. For 
these reasons I have ever been opposed to encouragements of western emi- 
grants. The States situated on the Atlantic are not sufficiently populous, 
and loosing our men, is loosing our greatest Source of Wealth. 

But what is wealth in Governments imperfect as ours are? Inch 
my Dear Sir, your opinions on this subject are but too well founded, and 
you may be assured that the ablest and most discerning men in these states, 
are anxiously affected with the Difficulties which you so feelingly and 
properly describe. What can be done is the question. The answer is vari- 
ous. Some say, and the opinion is extensive infuse a new portion of 

4 The "public letter", also dated Sept. 2 (Letter-Book, p. 90), was merely to 
transmit the act of Aug. '31 to Sullivan as president of New Hampshire. 
[495] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Proceedings, XLIX. 87. 
2 Cf. no. 490, ante. 



September, 1786 459 

strength into the confederation and all will be well. But it should be re- 
membered that the pressure of a common Calamity which induced the 
present confederation is now removed, that the individual States are gov- 
erned by their particular interests. These stand, or are supposed to stand, 
in opposition to each other, and, so long as the idea obtains, will prevent 
Unanimity in any opinion concerning the corroboration of the Federal 
Constitution. 

Others, and by no means the least respectable, answer, that nothing can 
be done in our present form ; that the Error lies in the original plan. Di- 
minish say they the number of States, let those which are to be established 
be nearly equal, reform their Constitutions, give their Governments more 
energy, the Laws more stability, the magistrates greater authority and 
responsibility, let the State Governments be confined to concerns merely 
internal : and let there be a federal Government with a vigorous Executive, 
wise Legislative, and independent Judicial. They tell you that a league or 
confederation between so many small, and unequal, Sovereignties never 
did, or can, answer the views of its Patrons. They illustrate, by affirming 
that the Greek Republics were finally melted down, and united, under one 
Head — that in France and Spain, which were formerly each divided into 
as many independent States or Sovereignties as they now contain Prov- 
inces, the People did not find their happiness in these small divisions, but 
sought it under their present form — that the Heptarchy, or seven Saxon 
Kingdoms, of England were finally united by Egbert, and that peace and 
happiness then succeeded to treasons, insurrections, and wars, which made 
up the history of that famed Confederacy. 

It must not be understood that these remarks authorize an opinion that 
a monarchy would promote the happiness of the people of America — far, 
very far from it. 3 But they show this ; if wise and prudent men discerning 
the imperfections of the present Governments, do not in season and with- 
out fear, propose suitable remedies, the causes which changed the Gov- 
ernments alluded to may, and probably will, change those of America. 
Since a convention must assemble at Annapolis I am glad that Delegates 
will attend from Massachusetts. I hope extraordinary as the measure is, 
that it may issue more favorably than I have ever expected. 4 

8 King's remark is one among many indications that the idea of establishing a mon- 
archy in America was in circulation at that time, although perhaps only in whispers. For a 
resume of the subject see the article by Dr. Richard Krauel in Am. Hist. Rev., XVII. 445-51. 
That article quotes a letter from Prince Henry to Steuben, undated but evidently written 
in the early part of 1787, and definitely replying to a letter from Steuben dated Nov. 2, 
1786 (see no. 539, note 4, post). With his letter, according to a persistent story, Steuben 
transmitted a letter from Nathaniel Gorham, whose presidency of Congress was then 
within a few days of expiring, inviting Prince Henry to become king of the American 
states. See also Louise B. Dunbar, A study of " Monarchical " Tendencies in the United 
States from 1776 to 1801, ch. IV., and citations. Jay wrote to Washington Jan. 7, 1787 : 
"Shall we have a king? Not in my opinion while other experiments remain untried" 
(Correspondence of Jay, III. 226). See also nos. 595, 597, post. General John M. Palmer, 
whose life of Steuben is expected shortly to appear, has called the editor's attention to 
a letter from Steuben to Major William North Aug. 12, 1786, in which he mentions that 
he had received a letter from Prince Henry. This letter from the prince does not appear 
to have been discovered by Dr. Krauel. See Kapp. Life of Steuben, p. 697. 

4 See no. 455, ante. 

36 



460 Continental Congress 

Neither Chancellor Livingston nor Mr. Duane will attend; they are 
very little concerned in the politics of the present times. Mr. Madison of 
Virginia has been here for some time past, he will attend the convention. 
He does not discover or propose any other plan than that of investing 
congress with full powers for the regulation of commerce foreign and 
domestic. But this power will run deep into the authorities of the indi- 
vidual States, and can never be well exercised without a federal Judicial. 
The reform must necessarily be extensive. 

I will not add on these subjects — we must wait events. I hoped long 
before this to have been in Boston with Mrs. King. But we are yet to be 
delayed. Mr. Sedgwick left us a few days since on account of his health. 
I can not break up the representation of the State, which would be the case 
in my absence. I wait the return of Mr. Dane. Be pleased to present my 
repectful compliments to Mrs. Jackson, and be assured that I am with high 
Respect, Dear Sir, your obt. and very humble servt. 

Rufus King. 

496. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

_. ^. Niw York Sept. 3, 1786. 

Dear Sir, 

In my last I advis'd you of the point to wh. seven States had brought 
the business — after repealing the instruction in part, entering the repeal 
affirmatively, setting aside a motion requiring the sense of Congress 
whether the repeal was valid so as to give a new instruction by 7. States, 
by the previous question, and passing an order to prevent our moving it 
again untill they sho'd have the same number of States on the floor, on 
their part the thing was complete. I inform'd you also of our propositions 
and the number of States for them — it was on friday last that they clos'd 
the business. 2 It has been propos'd by some of the gent'n on ours to 
notify Mr. Jay of the opinion of the 5. States but I think we shall not do 
this, he is possessed of some of our sentiments in the official way ; to com- 
municate them otherwise than thro the journals might have an intemperate 
and factious appearance, we have as yet done nothing but under the consti- 
tution and almost in all cases the rules of the house, nor shall we I appre- 
hend. 8 some gent'n on their side hinted their determination to withdraw 

[496] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 160; Bancroft, Formation of 
the Constitution, II. 338; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 24. 

2 See nos. 492, 493, ante. 

8 The following draft of a letter, in an unidentified writing found among the 
Madison Papers (vol. VII., end of 1786), is doubtless an outcome of the tentative plan 
here suggested. Beneath the date-line it carries this, memorandum in Madison's writing : 
" to be addressed to Mr. Jay, Secy, of For. Aff 'rs ". 

" New York 1786. 
" Sir, we are to inform you that we consider the resolutions of the 20 July and 25 August 
1785 as still in force and that you are bound to adhere to the restriction and limitation 
therein contained as the partial repeal of the restraining clause being carried by only » 
states, we do not conceive the Question ought to have been considered in any other light 
than that of having been lost — nine states being necessary under the confederation to 
authorize the entering into treaties, the same are certainly necessary to alter, amend or 
enlarge the powers of the negotiator, and as the repeal of the restraining clause in your 
instructions had a tendency to enlarge and alter your powers; so we suppose your own 
good sense will dictate to you the impropriety as well as danger of proceeding upon any 



September, 1786 4G1 

if the question sho'd be brought on as to the validity of the repeal, whether 
we shall take any other step is undecided. I doubt the propriety of so doing 
further than moving for permission to transmit copies of the Journals to 
the states for their information and to obt'n instructions to their delega- 
tions. I sho'd suppose the Secry. wo'd not proceed untill he finds himself 
supported by the States to whom the 7. delegations belong. 4 upon Jersey 
and Pena. then it rests — to engage their leading men is now the object, 
most probably he has already consulted them but his consultations and 
those of his party I doubt not have been founded on partial representations, 
to remove their impression a view of the Journals may be necessary. I 
consider the party especially Jay and the principal advocates as having 
gone too far to retreat. They must either carry the measure or be dis- 
grac'd (as the principal already hath been by the vote of 5. States), and 
sooner than suffer this they will labour to break the Union. I therefore 
suspect they have been already (and indeed have too much reason for my 
suspicions) intriguing with the principal men in these States to effect that 
end in the last resort. They have even sought a dismemberm't to the 
Potowmack and those of the party here have been sounding those in office 
thus far. 5 to defeat the measure therefore completely we must follow their 
movements and counteract them every where, advise the leading men of 
their designs, the purposes they are meant to serve etc. and in event of the 
worst extremity prepare them for an union with the Southern States. I 
fear some of those in Pen'a will have a contrary affection. But it must be 
remov'd if possible. A knowledge that she was on our side wo'd blow 
this whole intrigue in the air. To bring this abt. therefore is an important 
object to the Southern interest. If a dismemberm't takes place that State 
must not be added to the eastern scale. It were as well to use force to pre- 
vent it as to defend ourselves afterwards. I consider the convention of 
Annapolis as a most important era in our aff'rs. The Eastern men be 
assur'd mean it as leading further than the object originally comprehended. 
If they do not obtain that things shall be arrang'd to suit them in every 
respect, their intrigues will extend to the objects I have suggested above. 
Pen'a is their object. Upon succeeding or failing with her will they gain 
or lose confidence. I doubt not the emissaries of foreign countries will 
be on the ground. In short I do consider this convention as requiring your 
utmost exertions, in the change things will infallibly take, as well to obtain 
good as to prevent mischief. 6 .... 

other principles than those of stipulating the free navigation of the Mississippi and the 
fixing the territorial limits agreeable to the treaty with Great Britain. As the repeal how- 
ever may be transmitted you without intelligence of the manner and authority by which it 
was carried we conceive it our duty to give you this information and to say that if you 
proceed we shall consider you as proceeding upon powers incompetent and unconstitutional 
and that we shall not hold the states we represent bound to ratify or attend to any 
treaty you may form upon the supposed Opinion of having been released from the restric- 
tions abovementioned by the partial repeal of seven states." Cf. the Journals, Aug. 30, 31. 

4 See the Journals, Sept. 28; also nos. 507, 508, 519, post. Concerning an effort 
to bring New Jersey and Pennsylvania into the Southern camp see nos. 499, 512, 553, post. 

5 Cf. nos. 455, 463, 466, 477, ante, and no. 595, post. 

6 Monroe's letter is endorsed, " Design of the Eastern States in certain con- 
tingencies, to dismember the union, by the line of the Potomac ". Madison replied briefly • 
Sept. 11 to Monroe's two letters of Sept. 1 and 3 (Writings, II. 270). In a letter to 



462 Continental Congress 

[P. S.] I have always considered the regulation of trade in the hands 
of the U. S. as necessary to preserve the Union. Without it, it will infalli- 
bly tumble to pieces. But I earnestly wish the admission of a few addi- 
tional States into the Confederacy in the Southern scale. 

497. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

P Monday Morning New York September 4th, 1786. 

The publick Business make slow advances, owing principally to an un- 
happy divition between the Eastern and Southern Delegates on a treaty 
with Spain, the perticulars are confind to the Cabinet. I am exceeding 
anxcious to have your opinion on the subject, and shall endeavor to obtain 
leave for that purpose, the opposition is like to becom serious, boath 
appear firm and immovable, and seven States seem determined to carry 
on the business, whitest the five southern States oppose with a Uniform 
exertion, how the matter will terminate is quite uncertain, two st 
have left Congress. Rhode Island, and New Hamshire. all other Business 
seem to be out of View at present. - 

prior to this unhappy Dispute, the additional powers to the confedera- 
tion was reported by the Grand committee, which now appear out of View, 
and som Gentlemen Urge the measure will be Useles, if the present plan 
is carried into execution, as it will introduce a necessity for a different 
Government, if seven States can carry on a treaty, or in other words will 
persist in the measure, it follows of course, that the Confederated compact 
is no more than a rope of sand, and if a more efficient Government is not 
obtained a disolution of the Union must take place. 8 we have also had 
under Consideration a Collonial Government for the western country, 
which remains Unfinished, the perticulars if I mistake not were Men- 
tioned in a former letter.* 

I am sorry to hear oure paper Money has Depreciated, the cuirencj 
New York is yet equal to silver, how Long it will continue in that state 
is uncertain, the Jersay currency is also good within the limits of the state 
but in this Citty the[y] make a Discount of 15 per : cent for that currency. 
Rhod Island yet remains in the utmost confusion about their paper Money. 
the Merchantile Interests will not suffer it to pass, notwithstanding the 
heavy penalties inflicted by the act. we have had a very moderate summer, 
and the people in general are healthy. It gives me pain to mention t<> 
Youre Kxcellincy my personal Disadvantages, the navel stores which I 
brought with me remain unsold, nor do I see the least probabi[li ]t\ 

Vergennes Sept. 10 Otto, the French charge, recounts circumstantially the OOOtCtt be- 
tween the two factions and proceeds to give his own opinion of the underlying mo( 
which actuated the Southern states (Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution. II. 1&9). 
[497] X N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. Stoic Ras.. \\ III. 724 XX11 
992. 

2 C/. nos. 471. 485, 492, 493. 496, ante, 499. 508, 519, post. 

8 See no. 471, note 5. ante. Bloodworth's remark is one of the numerous e v i de n ce! 
that the controvert over the Mississippi question gave an especial stimulus to the move- 
ment for a new constitution. 

♦The letter of Aug. 16 (no. 471, ante). Cf. no. 490. ante. 



September, 1786 463 

disposing of it for money, a method here prevails of bartering for that 
article, which does not answare my purpose. 6 have been exceeding 
anxcious for the return of Coll. Blount, at which period I was desirous to 
return, as the State would be represented, my colliege and self have not 
been absent one houre, at any one time since we took oure seats in Congress, 
hope Youre Excellency will suffer me to return this fall, that I may have 
it in my Power to make better preparation against the ensuing Spring. 6 

498. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

My dear Qenl., 

.... The period seems to be fast approaching when the people of 
these U. States must determine to establish a permanent capable govern- 
ment or submit to the horrors of anarchy and licentiousness. How wise 
would it be, how happy for us all, if this change could be made in friend- 
ship, and conducted by reason. But such is the tardiness of the virtuous 
and worthy part of society in matters of this importance, and such the 
concert and zeal of the vicious, that it is to be apprehended that wicked- 
ness and audacity will triumph over honor and honesty, the enclosed 
proclamation just come to hand will shew you the temper of the eastern 
people 2 — it is not confined to one state or to one part of a state, but 
pervades the whole. The decay of their commerce leaves the lower order 
unemployed, idleness in this body, and the intrigueing exertions of another 
class whose desperate fortunes are remediable only by the ruin of society 
produce schemes portending the dissolution of order and good govern- 
ment. Weak and feeble governments are not adequate to resist such high 
handed offences — Is it not then strange that the sober part of mankind 
will continue to prefer this incertitude and precariousness, because their 
jealousy s are alarmed and their envy excited when they see the officers of 
the nation possessing that power which is indispensably necessary to 
chastise vice and reward virtue. But thus it is, and thus it has been, and 
from hence it follows that almost every nation we read off, have drank 
deep of the miserys which flow from despotism or licentiousness — the 
happy medium is difficult in practice 

New York Septr. 8th, 1786. 3 

5 See no. 471, ante. 

6 See Caswell to Bloodworth Sept. 24 and to Blount Oct. & A\ C. State Recs., 
XVIII. 746, 759. Cf. no. 441, ante, and no. 508, note 6, post. Bloodworth's colleague, James 
White, has also left evidence of the difficulties they were encountering in securing the 
means of subsistence. White wrote to John Gray Blount a brief letter dated " New York 
7 ber 14th [1786] ", principally to say: " Your kind attention to making the earliest and 
best advantage of the warrants deserves my thanks. I seem to be unfortunate in not being 
able to get any money immediately ; but, on the other hand, I congratulate myself in the 
friendly assistance that is likely to turn the unpromising business to its present expecta- 
tion." N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

[498] x Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The proclamation of Governor Bowdoin, Sept. 2, 1786, is in the New York Daily 
Advertiser for Sept. 9. 

3 On Sept. 5 William Samuel Johnson recorded in his diary " Din'd Sturgis " ; on 
the 8th (Friday), when there appears to have been no session of Congress, he was "at 
Comm'ee " and "Din'd Presidents"; on the oth he was again "at Do." (1. e., in com- 
mittee meeting) ; and on Sunday, the 10th, he " Din'd President". 



464 Continental Congress 

499. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 
Dear Sir, Phila., Sepr. 12, 1786. 

I arriv'd here a few days since to press on the legislature of this State 
a seperation of the impost from the suppleml. funds. I have the most 
satisfactory evidence they will reject the proposition, we proceed there- 
fore further merely to discharge our duty — both parties are united in 
opposition to it. to morrow we shall be reed, by the legislature. I am 
sorry I came on the business. 2 before this you have reed, my letters in- 
forming of the subsequent progress and final close of the business which 
lately engag'd us in Congress; or rather so far as it depended on their 
direction, by agreement nothing was to be done in it untill our return. 8 
I expect to sit out back in a day or two. It will depend much on the opinion 
of Jersey and Pena. as to the movements of Jay — and that of Jersey much 
on that of Mr. Clark now with you at Annapolis, he put Hornblower in 
congress and may turn him out agn. for he has no positive weight of his 
own. Clark has always been anxious for taking the western land, from us. 
I sho'd suppose him inclin'd to turn it to the best acct. I conclude there- 
fore that if he knows the delegation, especially his part of it, pursue a 
system of policy so contrary to his own, and to what is in effect the 
interest of his country, he wo'd dismiss Mr. Hornblower — Perhaps yon 
may be able to hint to Mr. Clark that Jersey except Symes was with the 
eastern States upon this occasion. 4 Mr Henry of the Maryl'd delegation 
has referr'd Mr. Stone to you for information upon this subject by my 
request. Mr. Stone is my friend and a very upright sensible man. You 
will shew him what part of my letters you find necessary. The ablest men 
here believe and act on it, in the rejection of the proposition, that the 
refusal to seperate the 2. parts of the system endangers the govt.— and 
that it will most probably induce a change of some kind or other. It i> 

[499] \ Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 163; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, II. 393. 

2 See no. 493, note 2, ante, and nos. 500, 503, 554. 575. Post. The Pennsylvania 
Packet of Sept. 14 has the following item: "A correspondent, speaking of the deputation 
sent by Congress to the assembly of the state of Pennsylvania, observes, that if half the 
pains were taken to compel the delinquent states to pay into the treasury their qootaa called 
for ... . that are now using to urge this state to comply with the unreasonable request 
which was made to the house at their last session, and unanimously rejected, the Congress 
would be more respectable in the discharge of their duty." A "correspondent" in the 
Independent Gazetteer of Sept. 23 offers observations that are even more severe. 

» The Mississippi question. See nos. 402, 408, 425, 437, 443, 447, 457, 459, 463-482, 
485, 492. 493. 495-497. onte, 507, 508, 519, post. 

*The occasion on which Symmcs parted from his colleagues and voted with the 
Southern states on the Mississippi question was doubtless in the period Aug. 16 to 22, 
when, however, the debates were in committee of the whole, and there is no recorded 
on the question. See his speech of Aug. 18 (no. 474, ante). In the votes of be is 

again recorded as voting with the Southern states and in opposition to his 1 
on the Mississippi question. It is also to be observed that on Auk. 89, in the vote on the 
New York-impost question, he alone of the delegates north of Maryland aligned himself 
with the Southern states. With regard to the interview with Abraham Clark see no. 553, 
post. By "the 2 parts of the system", r ef e rr e d to farther on, Monroe doubth 
the separation of negotiations respecting bounds from those respecting the navigation 
of the Mississippi. See, for instance, the instruction! <>f Au«. j;, 1785. the Massachusetts 
motion Aug. 10, 1786, and the proceedings Aug. 28-31, 1786. 



September, 1786 465 

well for the southern States to act with great circumspection and to be 
prepar'd for every possible event — to stand well with the middle states 
especially. 5 .... 

[P. S.] Colo. Grayson came with me in the interval to relax from 
business and meet his lady here. She is with him, but unfortunately he is 

afflicted with an extr'y disease the very close attention he hath 

lately paid to business with the laborious exercise of the mind and the 
want of that of the body I fear hath given birth to it. Today he hath 
been better than heretofore. 

500. Rufus King, Note. 1 

[September 13, 1786.] 2 
Monroe and I were sent to the Legislature at Phila. The requisition 
of supplies for the general Treasury were ill complied with, and owing 
to their insufficiency, the numerous Claimants often went empty away; 
but such of them as belonged to the States, which were the most punctual 
in paying into the Treasury their quotas, complained that strangers were 
paid, when they were dismissed unpaid. In this disorder of the finances, 
Pennsylvania, which had paid her quota more freely than many others, 
adopted certain regulations, according to wh. instead of paying her quota ' 
into the general Treasury, she assumed to distribute it among her own 
citizens, holding claims on the general Treasury. This assumption in- 
creased the financial embarrassment of Congress, and, if followed, would 
have put an end to all the contributions from the other States. 

To remonstrate against this course of proceeding by Penna. M. and 
myself were deputed to her Legislature. Genl. Mifflin was the Speaker 
of the House, it being before their present Const'n, their Legislature 
consisted only of a single body. Being first named in the mission, it was 
in course that I should deliver the remonstrance. I had taken a good deal 
of pains to examine and arrange the matter of my discourse, and having 
acquired some reputation, felt unusual Solicitude that my performance 
should not disappoint any expectations that might have existed. The doors 
of the Legislature were open and the House very full. I had scarcely 
risen from my chair and addressed the Speaker, before all my thoughts 
were scattered and my power to recall them wholly gone. Confused and 
mortified, I had nothing left but, to turn to my Colleague, who was sitting 
by me, and to ask him to take my place wh. he did and I sat down. 
Monroe went on and presented the views wh. he entertained on the subject. 
During his Speaking I rallied and recalled my scattered thoughts, became 
composed, and when Monroe finished, I again presented myself and went 
thro' my discourse without trepidation and to my own satisfaction. 8 

5 Madison had no doubt left Annapolis before the arrival of this letter. 
[500] x Lije of King, I. 127. 

2 King's account of the episode is not contemporaneous, but, as evidenced in the 
second paragraph, was written subsequently to the addition of the Pennsylvania Consti- 
tution of 1790. See nos. 477, 485, 488, 489, 493, 499, ante, 503, 554, post. 

3 The following account of the appearance of the committee before the Pennsyl- 
vania assembly is found in the Independent Gazetteer of Sept. 16, the Pennsylvania Packet 
of Sept. 18, and the Pennsylvania Gazette of Sept. 20: 

" On Wednesday last, a committee of Congress was admitted to address the Assembly 



466 Continental Congress 

501. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

Wethersfield, 14th Sepr. 1786. 
My dear Freind, 

Your's of the 25th Ult. came safe to hand, I am under many Obliga- 
tions to you and particularly for this last pledge of your Notice and 
Attention 

I can very easily beleive you are perplex'd with Politicks. I fear Con- 
gress will and must wind themselves up in their own Web of Resolves and 
Reresolves and never find their Way out. I am sorry to be forced to own 
to you that we are unable to govern ourselves, the most enlightned human 
Understanding our Country can boast, cannot point out any Method which 
promises well, to extricate our Country, from that flood of Evils which 
awaits us at this Day 2 

Had the Impost been granted in time, it might in some Measure have 
bound us together and even yet it would make the Nations abroad beleive 
we should stick together awhile, it seems New York would not grant it 
if they had no other reason for a Refusal but their will and pride; 
pitiable indeed ! To hazard our very political Existance, rather than bear 
the Taunts of a few fools, that they were obedient to the Solicitation! not 
the mandates of Congress on such an Occasion. On this Subject, I had 
written a long Letter to our freind Melanckton Smith but on second tho't 
and recollecting that he was with the Moses and prophets of our Israel 
I tho't best to lay it aside. Your Address to the States will (I fear) prove 
like Water spilled upon the Ground and have no Influence to awake us 
from our Stupor. We must not only hear, but feel before we Stirr. 8 

upon matters highly interesting to the states. The Honorable Mr. Kjng, it is said, gave so 
lively, so pathetic, and just account of the state of this country, and urged the requisitions 
of Congress with so much sound reasoning, that it is generally expected the Assembly 
will adopt the measures proposed by him ; Nothing can- save America but a union in 
Congress ; without it neither liberty, property nor life, can long be safe anywhere. The 
conduct of the Massachusetts Bay insurgents, and of the Wyoming intruders, are proofs 
of this assertion. In an union of the states, the strength of the whole may always be di- 
rected against rebellions, or usurpations of each state. United we stand, divided we fall — 
and let all the people say, amen.' 

Henry Hill wrote to Washington from Philadelphia Oct. 1 : " I lately had the pica 
of hearing Mr. King's harrangue to our Assembly, on the Subject of the Commission with 
which he and Mr. Monroe were charged by Congress. It was truely to the best of my 
judgment adapted to insure applause even from an Attic audience." There were further 
comments on the effectiveness of the speech (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; 
Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 397). See the Journals, Sept. 25. 

[501] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 119. 

2 The first omission above concerns matters entirely personal ; the second relates 
to the troubles in Massachusetts. 

• As already noted (no. 458, note 2, ante) the board of treasury, in accordance with 
the instructions of Congress Aug. 2, reported Aug. 31 an address to the states in support 
of the requisition of Aug. 2. The address then offered (it is in the Journals under Aug. 31 
and appears to have been printed as a broadside; see Bibliographical Notes, p. 066) was 
lially an extension of the remarks of the board in their report of June 22 (Journals, 
June 27; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 15; see nos. 462, note 2, 467, note 2. ant,'). It 
appears not to have been acceptable, and on Sept. 7 a committee was appointed upon it. 
On Oct. 6 this committee reported an address, which was mainly an elaboration of the 
address of Aug. 31. That likewise failed to meet the approval of Congress, and on Oct. 
another addition or modification was offered. Still Congress was not satisfied with it. 



September, 1/86 467 

His Excellency our Govr. was here on Saturday last and gives me to 
understand, he has sent on the Act relative to western Cession, and has 
wrote in pointed Terms to Col. Abel to supply you with Money, and 
directed him to give him his answer immediately yea or nay, that other 
provision might be made. The Govr. express'd a strong desire to see 
your Letter to me. presuming on your good Nature I ventured to show 
it him, and must ask your Pardon. 

I omit saying any thing to you on the Subject of our next year Arrange- 
ments, in giving Attendance on Congress, expecting to see you at New 
Haven in October, (Deo volente). 

The Disposal of our Reservation in the western World, will be a Subject 
of some Altercation the next Session of Assembly; some are for selling 
it for continental, others for state Securities. Your and my best freinds 
are of the former Class, I confess myself rather of the latter, but not 
unalterably fixed : Your assistance with Mr. Sturgiss will be indispensibly 
necessary. 4 .... 



and when it appears again (Oct. 17) it is reduced to a fraction of its former bulk. In all 
this time there is no record in the Journals of the consideration of the address, neither 
have any comments upon it by the members come to light, although Mitchell's remark 
suggests that Johnson had made some reference to it. The closing record of the episode 
is Thomson's endorsement on the last offering : " Oct. 17, 1786 Question taken and lost ". 
Congress did however on Oct. 17, probably in lieu of such an address, instruct the board of 
treasury to transmit with the requisition of Aug. 2a" state of the receipts and expendi- 
tures to the 30th of June last, the balances then due, together with an estimate of the 
accumulation of the public debts by a failure in complying with the requisitions heretofore 
made ". The board complied with this order in a circular letter to the states Nov. 13. The 
letter is printed in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 779. 

One small addition to the history of the address can be made from a source other than 
the Journals and the Papers of Congress. Among the manuscripts in the Virginia His- 
torical Society is one in the writing of Edward Carrington (listed in the society's Cata- 
logue, pp. 15, no), which proves to be a draft of a substantial part of the address of Oct. 6. 
Carrington was a member of the committee of Sept. 7, and this draft would appear to 
indicate that he was the principal author of the address reported by that committee. The 
manuscript begins with that paragraph of the address {Journals, p. 748) reading, "In 
examining ", etc., and ends with the words, " the balances cannot now be ascertained " 
(P- 75 1 )- The columns of figures on p. 751, showing the apportionments to the several 
states, together with amounts paid and the balances due, have not however been filled in. 
Besides a number of erasures and minor variations of small importance, there are two 
erasures that may appropriately be quoted here. Following the paragraph respecting the 
state of Georgia (foot of page 750) is this : 

" To the remarks naturally resulting from the above statement one general reflection 
applicable to the Union at large may be added that the effect of the last requisition may 
be best judged of by the experience of that of the 27th and 28 of ap'l 1784, with that 
requisition every State in the Union complied except North Carolina and Georgia; with 
the last only {blank} States have passed any Act towards a Compliance." This appears to 
have been discarded, and a new beginning made on another page : " From the above State- 
ment it must be apparent that no considerable payments can shortly be expected into the 
federal Treasury, nor is it probable that the existing funds in most " [unfinished] . This 
likewise was discarded, and the paragraph as printed, " To the above statement ", etc., 
was substituted. 

4 See nos. 336, 427, 458, ante. Johnson's entries in his diary for the week beginning 
Monday, Sept. n, are: " nth Warm at Congress Din'd Gardoquis . . . .; 12th Rain 
at Do. at Sturgis w'h Gray . . . . ; [the 13th, and 14th he was at Congress] ; 15th ... . 
Din'd Presidents ; 16th .... at Comm'e To Bills in Comp'y Col. Long 84/6." 



4G8 Continental Congress 

502. The Secretary of Congress to the Judges appointed in the 
Case of South Carolina vs. Georgia. 1 

Circular Office of Secretary of Congress 

Sept. 15th 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to You herewith enclosed a copy of the 
proceeding of Congress in the appointment of a Court for hearing and 
determining a matter in question between the States of South Carolina 
and Georgia; by which you will be duly informed and notified that You 
are a Member of the Court, and that it is summoned to meet at the City 
of New York on the third Monday in June next. As this Court is con- 
stituted in the manner pointed out in the 9th of the Articles of Confede- 
ration, by nomination, striking out and by lot : and as the said Article 
declares that, " the persons whose names shall be so drawn or any five 
of them shall be Commissioners or Judges to hear and finally determine 
the controversy, so always as a Major part of the Judges who shall hear 
the cause shall agree in the determination ", Congress rely on Your 
acceptance and attendance of which You will be pleased to transmit notice 
to this Office as soon as convenient. 2 

503. Rufus King to the Governor of Massachusetts 
(James Bowdoin). 1 

Philadelphia 17 Sep. 1786. 
Sir, 

I am here on a committee from congress, soliciting the legislature on 
the subject of Revenue, the temper of the times, and the systems of 
many of the States, are very unfavorable to the honest and just views 
of the United States. 2 

The Delegates from New York to the annapolis convention passed 
through this place this morning on their return home. 8 from them I learn 
that Delegates from only Five States assembled at annapolis, that the 
powers of even these Five were materially different; and that from a 
consideration of the small number of States which had sent Delegates, 
but more especially since the authorities of the Delegates assembled were 

[502] l Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " Hon'ble Thomas McKean Chief Justice Philadelphia") ; id. to 
James Madison, Library of Congress, Madison Papers; (bid., Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 92; id. to James Duane, N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duane Papers, I. 325. 

8 The extracts from the Journals transmitted with the letter were of Sept. 4. II, 13. 
Under the latter date (Journals, p. 652) are listed the nine names finally drawn by lot, 
namely, Alexander Contee Hanson, James Madison, Robert Goldsborough, James Duane, 
Philemon Dickinson, John Dickinson, Thomas McKean, Egbert Benson, and William 
Pynchon. For the beginnings of the case see no. 146, ante. The act of June 1, 1785, set 
the second Monday in May, 1786, for the appearance of the lawful agents of the t 
On May 18, 1786, at the request of both states, a " further day " was allowed and was 
fixed for the first Monday in September. 

[503] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 0446. 

2 See MM. r.?. 477. 488, 489, 493. 499, 500, (M 

8 The New York delegates in attendance at Annapolis were Alexander Hamilton 
and Egbert Benson. 



September, 1786 469 

so essentially different, and the original proposition made by Virginia 
so far short of the Reform which is necessary, they had agreed in a 
recommendation to the States that a convention of Delegates should be 
held at Philadelphia in May next for the purpose of a general Revision 
of the confederation, and a Report to Congress, and also to the several 
Legislatures. 4 

As the post leaves this city this Evening, I could not excuse myself in 
not communicating this information; probably however the Gentlemen 
from Massachusetts will by this post possess you of a more particular 
and circumstantial account, than it is in my power to transmit. 5 

Foreign nations had been notified of this convention, the Friends to 
a good federal government through these states looked to it with anxiety 
and Hope; the History of it, will not be more agreeable to the former, 
than it must be seriously painful to the latter. 6 



504. John Langdon to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

Portsmo. Septemb'r 20th 1786. 2 
S'r, 

Your Excellencys favor of the 19th Inst. I've Just Reed. It is out of 
my power at present to Determin whether I shall be able to proceed on 
to Congress or not, this will depend on the Situation of my Business. If 
I can Arrange my Affairs to my Mind, so as to Set out from home by 
the first of November next, shall go if necessary; tho' I would by no 
means, wish that the State should Remain in any Uncertainty on my 
Acct. ; if either of the other Gentlemen who are Elected, Choose to go 
on, shall be happy in being Excused. 

4 The proceedings of the convention (Sept. 11- 14), together with the address to 
the states, signed by all the delegates in attendance, is in Documents Illustrative of the 
Formation of the Union of the American States, selected, arranged, and indexed by Charles 
C. Tansill (69 Cong., 1 sess., House Doc. no. 398, Government Printing Office, 1927), 
pp. 39-43. The address, signed by John Dickinson, chairman, is in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 
737-740 ; Dickinson's letter of transmittal, Sept. 14, is ibid., p. 736. They were laid before 
Congress Sept. 20 and are found in the Journals under that date. See nos. 511, 512, post. 
Hugh Williamson, who arrived on Sept. 14 after the convention had adjourned, wrote to 
Governor Caswell from Edenton, Oct. 27, giving an account of his journey to Annapolis 
to attend the convention (N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 772). See also Tench Coxe to the 
Maryland commissioners, Sept. 16, and to President Franklin, Sept. 19, in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., XI. 60-63. As late as Nov. 7 William Churchill Houston sent to Governor Liv- 
ingston, to be laid before the legislature, the official~report of the convention. A copy of 
Houston's letter, from the original, at one time in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia, is in possession of the Carnegie Institution. 

5 The gentlemen from Massachusetts, Thomas Cushing, Francis Dana, and 
Samuel Breck, were too late for the convention, but from Wilmington, Sept. 16, they 
made a report to Governor Bowdoin upon their journey (Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 
416). See also their letter written from New York Sept. 10, addressed to the commis- 
sioners for New York, who had gone on to Annapolis (Hamilton's Works, 1850 ed., I. 432). 

6 See Life of King, I. 142-148. Cf. nos. 422, 425, 468, ante, 511, 512, 596, post. 
[504] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, " His Excellency, John Sul- 
livan Esqr. Exeter"). 

2 William Samuel Johnson records under Sept. 19, " Din'd Presidents " ; under 
Sept. 20, " Col'l Long sail'd at Comm'ee ". On Saturday, the 23d, he was " at Com'ee ". 
Each other day of the week he was " at Congress ". 



470 Continental Congress 

505. The Secretary of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsvvorth. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
<-.. September 26th, 1786. 

I take leave to transmit to you herewith enclosed an Act of the United 
States in Congress assembled of 1st November 1783, grounded on a 
Letter from the late General Greene, by which you will perceive that 
it was the desire of General Greene as well as of Congress that his 
Letters and Miscellaneous Papers containing a history of the most material 
parts of the Southern operations should be transcribed and preserved in 
this Office. Immediately after the passing of this Act I conversed with 
General Greene on the subject; and as it seemed to me proper that the 
Person employed in this business should possess his confidence, I pro- 
posed to him and he readily agreed to fix upon a suitable Person and set 
him about the work. The removal of his family to the Southward and his 
other necessary avocations having prevented his executing this business 
and he being now unfortunately dead it rests with his Executors to carry 
into effect what he intended and wished to have done. I have conversed 
with Mr. Rutledge on the subject and he refers me to you. 1 

I am anxious that this work should be compleated and that speedily, 
because I find as the Genl. intimated in his Letter to Congress that Officers 
who served under him have occasion to refer to his Letters and papers 
and for this purpose sundry applications have been made to this Office. 
But there is another motive which operates still more strongly. The 
regard I have for the memory of a Man who has performed such essential 
services to his Country makes me most earnestly wish to preserve those 
documents which alone will enable some future historian to do justice 
to his merit and transmit his Fame to posterity. 

If you will think proper to send the papers to me I will immediately 
arrange them and employ a Clerk to copy into Books such as relate to 
Southern Operations, and you may rely that whatever may be found 
among them touching his own particular affairs shall be carefully pre- 
served and returned. 

The favor of an answer as soon as convenient will much oblige 

506. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (John Collins). 1 

~. New York 28th Septr., 1786. 

Permit your Delegates to address your Excellency in your official 
Character, and give you a short detail of the Business now before Con- 
gress, with some observations upon the present state of the Federal 
Government, etca., etca. 

[505] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 06; Conn. Hist. Soc., Joseph 
Trumbull Collection, no. 268. 

2 Edward Rutledge was in New York at this time. For instance, he wrote to 
Jefferson from New York Oct. 14 (Jefferson Papers), and to Jay Nov. 12 upon his re- 
turn to Charleston (Corrcspondeticc of Jay, III. 216). 

[506] l R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785- 1788, p. 55 (signed by Manning and 
Miller) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 564; R. I. Recs., X. 222. 



September, 1786 471 

An important national matter which has for some time past engaged 
the attention of Congress will probably soon come into public view. That 
body have now before them a report of a grand Committee for granting 
to your federal Government additional powers necessary to render it 
efficient, this, after the subject has undergone the necessary investigations, 
will be laid before the respective legislatures. 2 An ordinance for the 
establishing a colonial Government in the western territory is also nearly 
compleated; 3 as also for the establishment of a Mint for the United 
States, 4 with many other matters of less magnitude. 

Your Delegates wish to be informed whether the Accounts of the 
State against the U. S. are ready for adjustment, Mr. Chinn 5 having 
informed the Treasury board that they are not ready; nor can they be 
got ready for a long time. As that Gentleman's Salary still goes on, your 
Delegates wish to be possessed of such official Documents as may set that 
subject in its true point of view. 

It is highly necessary that all payments made by the State, to the federal 
Government, whether on Requisitions or otherwise, should be carried to 
its Credit on the books of the Treasury, therefore all these accomps ought 
without loss of time, to be sent forward. 

Your Excellency will be made acquainted, by Congress, that no paper, 
emitted by the States, will answer federal purposes. 6 Will not this evince 
it to be mistaken policy, in our Legislature, to order payment; for the 
late requisition, in their own paper currency? when Gentlemen reflect, 
but for a moment, on the exhausted state of the federal treasury ; that no 
monies are expected but what come in from requisitions on the different 
states; that these are either all stopped, or so slow in their operations, 
that nothing can be calculated upon with certainty; that the moment is 
arrived that our Credit with foreign powers is lost; that an enemy on 
our frontiers stands prepared to take every advantage of our prostrate 
situation ; that an enemy more despicable is embarrassing our most bene- 
ficial commerce; and carrying our fellow cittizens into Slavery for life 
(about thirty at present being in that unhappy Situation) 7 does it require 
the spirit of prophecy to predict what will, and must inevitably be the 
consequence ? Or will arguments be necessary to draw forth the most 
vigorous exertions of every friend to American liberty, to arrest the 
sacred palladium, and prevent our total ruin as a Nation? 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 7, and nos. 434 (note 3), 471, 490, 497, ante. 

3 See nos. 373 (note 2), 443 (note 5), 471 (note 5), 483 (note 3), 497, ante. A 
form of government was reported Sept. 19, considered Sept. 21, 29, and Oct. 4, then once 
more allowed to lapse. For the resumption of the subject see the Journals, Apr. 26, 1787, 
and nos. 645-647, post. 

4 See the Journals, Aug. 8, Sept. 21, Oct. 10, 16, 17; also nos. 182, 203, 217, 227, 
315, 462, 471, ante, 519, 543, 645, 646, post. 

5 Edward Chinn was commissioner of accounts for Rhode Island. With regard to 
the ordinance for the settlement of accounts see no. 522, post. 

6 See the Journals, Sept. 18, and Bibliographical Notes (p. 966). The board of 
treasury transmitted the act of Sept. 18 to the states, with a circular letter, Sept. 25. These 
are printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 64-66, and in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 742, 748. 
The letter to Maryland, together with the broadside of the act, is in Md. Hist. Soc, box, 
1786. 

7 The reference is to the Barbary powers. See nos. 440 (note 2), 453-457, 471, ante, 
C132, 635, 639, 707, post. 



472 Continental Congress 

Amidst, however, these gloomy scenes, we have the pleasure to inform 
you that her Majesty of Portugal, has ordered a squadron of 5 sail of 
Men of War to cruise at the mouth of the Straits for the protection of 
her trade; and that she has ordered her officers to give the same pro- 
tection to the American flagg as to her own; of this her Minister has 
given official information to Mr. Adams at the Court of London. An 
instance of Magnanimity this, which is worthy of imitation, and demands 
our grateful acknowledgm'ts, as we have nothing better to offer her in 
payment. 8 

While foreign potentates take such an interested part in our favour. 
does it not call for unanimity and exertions at home, amongst every class 
of our Citizens, to rescue the common wealth from impending ruin? 
Should not these considerations reconcile the Mercantile and landed In- 
terests in the State of Rhode Island, and produce a repeal of those penal 
Laws, which have already convulsed and still threaten ruin to the State? 

It is now agreed by all that our federal Government is but a name : a 
meer shadow without any substance; and we think it our duty to inform 
the State that it is totally inefficient for the purposes of the Union ; and 
that Congress, without being vested with more extensive powers, must 
prove totally nugatory. Should it be imagined that your Delegates 
individuals, wish for an increment of power, be assured that we hold 
ourselves servants of the State of Rhode Island, and in readiness to 
relinquish the exalted station in which you have placed us, and return 
with pleasure to the shade of retirement, provided we can see such a 
degree of energy infused into your federal Governm't as may render it 
adequate to the great ends of its original Institution. 

We need not, Sir, inform you how it wounds our feelings, in every 
company, as well as in the Gazettes, to hear and see the proceedings of 
our Legislature burlesqued and ridiculed ; and to find that Congress and 
all men of sober reflection reprobate, in the strongest terms, the principles 
which actuate our administration of governm't. We are Citizens of Rhode 
Island and are most sensibly affected with every thing which militates to 
the dishonour of the State. Your Delegates further beg leave to observe, 
that if those measures are continued, which have, for the last six months 
been pursued, in their opinion they will infallibly terminate in the ruin 
of the state; and have no inconsiderable share in the subversion of the 
Union. 

We conclude, by observing that the necessary supplies for our support 
are expected, and will be provided by the Legislature, as we greatly need 
them. 

•The information is from a letter of John Adams June 27, read in Con.L. 
Sept. 26 : " The Chevalier De Pinto, the Envoy of Portugal, informed mc, this Day that 
he had received Instructions from his Court, to inform me 'that the Queen hil 
has sent a Squadron to cruize in the Mouth of the Streights with orders to protcv 
Vessells belonging to the United States of America equally with those of her own Sub- 
jects and that she would continue those orders as long as they should be agreahlc to 
grcss '" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 84, vol. VI., f. 307). In the same letter Adams n 
to the Algerine troubles and suggests utilizing the opportunity for the development of a 
navy. Another letter of the same date is ibid., f. 311, and in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
II. 670. See also the Journals, Feb. 3, 1787, and nos. 581, 833, post. 



September, 1786 473 

507. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York Sepr. 29, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last it has been propos'd that each delegation be at liberty to 
communicate to the legislature of the State to wh. they belong the project 
of Mr. Jay and the proceedings of Congress thereon and negativ'd. 2 the 
journal has been handed to Mr. Jay. as yet he has said nothing nor have 
we information what course he means to take except from those here in 
his party, who affirm he will proceed. I wrote some weeks since to Colo. 
Mason upon this subject, at the time I wrote Govr. Henry, 3 but have reed, 
no answer from him; from wh. circumstance as well as that of R. H. Lee's 
being in the opposite sentiment, there is room to conjecture he is not with 
us. R. H. L. I conclude has been influene'd by Arthur who has been 
intrig'ng on the other side to serve his own purposes, and leaving the busi- 
ness of the treasury bd. to Billy Duer. Bland is also in the assembly so that 
possibly the party in favor of this project may have advocates with us. 
I hope Colo. Grayson hath recover'd. 

508. Timothy Bloodworth to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York September 29th, 1786. 

Dear Sir, 

The enclos'd was handed to me by the Secretary of Congress with a 
request to forward it on to youre Excellency. The publick Business make 
slow advances and proceed in a very Disagreeable Direction, the instruc- 
tion for a negociation with Spain has employd oure time principally ever 
since the 10th of August Last, the perticulars is confinde to secresy, which 
gives me great uneasiness, we have (that is the minority) endeavour'd 
to have the injunction of secresy taken of, so far as to communicate the 
perticulars to the Executives of oure States, but could not obtain Leave, 
and I was oblig'd to suppress a letter which I had wrote on the subject, in 
confidence of obtaining Leave to communicate the perticulars to Youre 
Excellency. 2 this being the situation of affairs and not willing to forfeit 
my honour in violating the rules of the house, have Long omitted writing 
anything the utmost warmth has appeard on this occation from each 
party, the Divition are seven states for the measure and five against, and 
the Majority appears Determined to carry on the treaty at all events and 
the minority as firmly fixt to oppose it in all its Stages, except Instructed 

[507] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, I. 166; Bancroft, Formation 
of the Constitution, II. 397. 

2 The motion was by Pinckney, seconded by Carrington, Sept. 28. In the final 
vote on the question six states were in the negative, three in the affirmative; however, 
Symmes of New Jersey, as frequently was the case (see no. 499, note 4, ante), parted 
from his colleagues and voted aye, while Houstoun of Georgia voted no. Maryland's one 
delegate, Ramsey, voted aye. Cf. nos. 508, 511, 512, 517, 545, post. 

8 The letter to Governor Henry is that of Aug. 12 (no. 463, ante). 
[SoS^Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 752. 

2 Cf. no. 507, ante. 



474 Continental Congress 

to the contrary by their Different States, for my own part I think the 
president [precedent] Dangerous to the Liberty of the southern States. 
If seven States can barter any part of the Priveledges of the Different 
States, for any advantage whatsoever, there remains no security for any 
possession, it is wel known that the ballance of Power is now in the East- 
ern States, and they appear determined to keep it in that Direction, this 
to me is evident from all their Conduct, and in the present measure, if 
carried they will be favoured in their scheme. 8 I shall think it my Duty to 
attend the assembly and lay the matter before them with the circumstances 
that attend the measure. 4 all other business appears out of view, and I do 
not expect anything of account will be don by the present Congress, we 
have endeavoured frequently to have some measures taken on the Indian 
treaties, and have had the subject refer'd to a committee, but they will 
not report as yet, and I fear no relief is intended. 8 however shall urge it 
if possible. I am sorry to finde Mr. Blount does not intend to bring his 
family, we shall certainly be in want of an able representation the ensu- 
ing year, and those that will give their steady attendance. 8 

509. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

[Ca. Oct. 1,] 1786 2 
dear Gen!.. 

.... Congress have sent their secretary of this department, General 
Knox, to take the best measures in his power in concert with Government 
for the safety of the Arsenal. 3 .... 

This event produces much suggestion as to its causes. Some attribute 
it to the weight of taxes and the decay of commerce, which has produced 
universal idleness. 

others, to British councils the vicinity of Vermont and the fondness for 
Novelty which always has and ever will possess more or less influence on 
man. the next accounts will I hope produce favorable intelligence, but 
present appearances do not justify this hope 

» Cf. nos. 463. 485. 490, 493. 496, 497. 499. 507, ante, 511, 5 19, 561 , 562, post. 

* See no. 561, post. 

8 See nos. 471, 483, ante; also the Journals, Sept. 15, Oct. 6, 10, 11, and nos. 513^- 
515, 520. Post. See also the action of the North Carolina legislature Jan. 6, 1787 (l*. C. 
State Recs., XVIII. 462-465. 476, 483). The resolution adopted by the senate and rejected 
by the house is also ibid., XXII. 1005. 

William Samuel Johnson recorded in his diary under Sept. 27, " Din'd Genl. Knox's ". 
under the 28th, " Din'd Kings ", and under the 30th, " Din'd Presidents ". The diary 
records that he was at Congress all six days of the week, including Saturday, the 30th. 
but the Journals do not indicate a session on that day. Probably Johnson was as usual 
at a committee meeting. 

8 Blount wrote to Caswell from Martinborough, North Carolina, Oct. 19: "I shall 
set out from this on the 21st Instant for New York, so as to be there in Time to 
my Seat in Congress on the first Monday in November" (X. C. State Recs., XVIII. 767). 
See no. 541, post. 
[509] i Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 The letter is endorsed, "About Oct. 1st", and in his reply, Oct. 31. Washington 
mentions it as of that date {Writings, ed. Ford. XI. 76, ed. Sparks, IX. 203). 

• That is, the arsenal at Springfield, Mass., which was threatened by the insurgents 
of the so-called Shays' Rebellion. The preceding passages relate to that affair. See the 
Journals. Aug. I, Sept. 20, 28, 29. Oct. 2, 4. 6. 13 (p. 875), 18, 19. 21 ; also no. 558, post. 
Cf. nos. 517, 523. 526, 528. 529. 531. 539. post. 



October, 1786 475 

510. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York 2 October 1 786. 
Dear Sir, 

The convention proposed to have been held at Annapolis in the last 
month on the subject of commerce has terminated without credit or pros- 
pect of having done much good. I inclose you the report which they ad- 
dressed to their constituents. They were founded in the opinion that an 
adjustment of the commercial powers of the several States is intimately 
connected with the other authorities of the Confederacy and the respec- 
tive States. 2 

Whether the states will accede to the proposition of a convention at 
Philadelphia in May, is yet uncertain. Congress, I think, will not interfere 
in such a manner as to patronize the project. I am fully convinced that 
your opinion is a just and political one, that Congress can do all a conven- 
tion can, and certainly with more safety to original principles. 3 But we 
are now separating ; the federal year will expire in a few weeks, and little 
public business will receive an examination before the assembling of the 
next Congress. 

511. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New Y'k Octr. 2, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 I have it in contemplation to move to day that the report from 
Annapolis be referr'd to a Committee. I am persuaded the Eastern States 
will not grant an unlimited commission, but wo'd accede to it if its objects 
were defind, or rather this is the language of those whom they have here. 3 
we mov'd that the injunction of secrecy be taken off and that each delica- 
tion [sic] be at liberty to communicate the proceedings on a certain sub- 
ject to their legislature, which was negativ'd 4 the States in opposition were 
fearful of giving a dangerous wound by referring a subject to wh. they 
were competent in any degree to the view of their constituents, to the 
Confederation. 5 to prevent a ratification, to wh. point I apprehend they 
will bring it, will be a difficult thing. Mr. Ramsay has recanted and join'd. 
Mr. Kean applauds the project and is with them and our worthy colleague 6 

[510] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers .(copy) ; Life of King, I. 144. 

2 See no. 503, note 4, ante, and nos. 511, 525, 543, 562, post. 

3 Adams had written : " The proposed convention, it is to be hoped will do good ; 
but I know not why Congress could not have done as well or better " (letter of June 14, 
quoted in Life of King, I. 144 n.). See ibid., pp. 199 et seq. and nos. 562, 568, 585, 589, post. 
A letter from King to Adams Oct. 3, relating to the Massachusetts troubles, is in Life of 
King, I. 190. 

[Sii] 1 ]^. Y. Pub. Lib., Monroe Papers. 

2 The omitted passage relates to the purchase of Mohawk lands. 

3 See nos. 503, 510, ante, 512, 527, post. 

4 See no. 507, note 2, ante, and no. 512, post. 

5 The meaning of course is : the delegates of the states in opposition were fearful 
that by referring to the view of their constituents a subject to which they themselves were 
competent to any degree, they would give a dangerous wound to the Confederacy. 

6 Henry Lee. In the first vote of Sept. 28 both Lee and Ramsey, as well as White 
of North Carolina and Houstoun of Georgia voted with the Northern delegates. Kean was 

37 



476 Continental Congress 

altho' he votes generally with us at length speaks ag'nst us, and gives every 
opposition in his power. 

[P. S.] I sho'd write Colo. Grayson but hope he is by this on his way here ; 
if the contrary sho'd be the case make my best respects to himself and 
family. 

512. James Monroe to James Madison. 1 

New York Octr. 7th, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been favor'd with yours covering a letter to Mr. Thomson which 
I shall deliver him in the morning. 2 I am glad you have accepted the 
appointment; if the court sho'd sit, wh. is only a probable event, and the 
arrangment we have in contemplation with respect to the Mohawk sho'd 
succeed, I shall be happy to accompany you in a trip here next summer. 
We have heard nothing from Mr. Jay since the Journal hath been handed 
to him ; 8 I am inclin'd to suspect it hath made a different impression on 
him, from what the narrative of its contents had done, by those in his party 
in the late transaction. This with the impression Mr. Th. 4 (if he hath 
conferr'd with him) may have made, may perhaps have suspended his 
movements for the present. I am inform'd he means to submit nothing 
further to the present Congress, perhaps he waits the convention of the 
ensuing delegations, to sound them, and to be govern'd by circumstances 
as they shall turn up. If Pena. and Jersey sho'd move in the business this 
intrigue is at an end. Symmes of the Jersey delegation brings the subject 
to the view of his legislature. 8 We set out, if nothing intervenes to pre- 
vent it, on friday next so as to get into Phila. on Saturday evening 

[P. S.] we propos'd the other day to refer the report from Annapolis 
to a Committee, it was objected to by the Eastern States, we withdrew 
it for the purpose of a conference with them but we suspect yet they will 
vote ag'nst it. No. Carolina is off the floor so that I doubt the possibility 
of carrying it and in that event shall decline it. 8 

absent at the time. Cf. no. 507, note 2, ante. See further nos. 517, 545, post. Madison's 
reply, Oct. 5, to this letter, as also to the letters of Sept. 12 and 29, is in Writings, II. 272. 
[51a] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Monroe Papers. 

* The letter to Secretary Thomson was no doubt that of Sept. 25 accepting the 
appointment as one of the commissioners to settle the boundary controversy between 
Georgia and South Carolina. See no. 502, ante. 

8 See no. 507, ante. 

4 I f this is Th.", as it appears to be, it probably means Secretary Thomson, mean- 
ing that Jay may have obtained from the secretary light on the proceedings in Com 
and the attitudes of members beyond what the Journal would reveal. Cf. no. 519, post. 

5 See nos. 496, 499, 507, 511, ante, and no. 553, post. 

•See nos. 503, 510, 511, ante, and no. 527, post. The report of the Annapolis 
convention was referred to a grand committee Oct. 11, but it was not until Feb. 21, 1787, 
that a report from it was taken into consideration. Meanwhile the committee had under- 
gone several changes of personnel. See nos. 589, 590, 594, 595, 597, post. 

William Samuel Johnson's diary entries for the week ending Oct. 7 record that he was 
"at Congress" each day from Monday to Friday; that on Monday, the 2d, he "Din'd 
Presidents ", under the 3d he notes, " Even'g Com'ee ", under the 6th, " Col'l Troup here ", 
and under Saturday, the 7th, " at Comm'ee at Carrington's ". 



October, 1786 477 

513. Charles Thomson to the Reverend John Ettwein. 1 

Octr. 9th, 1786. 
Revd and Dear Sir, 

This will be delivered to you by Mr. James White late a delegate in 
Congress from the State of North Carolina and now Superintendant of 
Indian Affairs for the southern district which includes all the Indians 
Southard of the Ohio. Immediately on his appointment I considered that 
he might be instrumental in furthering the laudable endeavours of the 
Brethern [sic] to carry the gospel of peace and salvation to the nations 
of Indians under his Superintendance. On this subject I conversed with 
him and he very readily agreed to call upon you in his return. 2 The design 
therefore of this is not merely to recommend him to your friendly notice, 
but that you may confer with him and concert measures if you see a way 
open that while he is attending to the temporal you the labours of the 
brethern may be employed in promoting the spiritual welfare of these poor 
benighted people. 3 

Be pleased to remember me affectionately to the Revd. Baron de Watte- 
ville 4 and his good lady for whom I entertain a high Esteem and regard 

I am revd. Sr. with sincere esteem and affection 

Yr Aff . S 

C T 

514. James White to the President of Congress. 1 

New York 10th Octobr. 1786. 
Sir, 

By a steady attention to the views and instructions of congress, in the 
Southern department of indian affairs, I hope to evince the grateful sense 
I entertain of the confidence placed in me by that hon'ble body, in their 
appointment to that superintendency on friday ulto. 2 

Their commands shall accordingly be executed with unwearied atten- 
tion by 

Sir 

Yr. most respectful, and obedt. Servt. 

James White 

[S^] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 James White was elected superintendent for the Southern district Oct. 6. See 
nos. 471, 486, ante; cf. nos. 515, 520, 521, post. 

3 Thomson first wrote, " while he is attending to the temporal you may labour 
for the spiritual welfare", etc. He then corrected the clause to read as above, except 
that he failed to erase the " you " after temporal. 

4 Baron John de Watteville, consecrated bishop in 1747, came to Bethlehem in 
September, 1748. Rev. John Ettwein, who arrived at Bethlehem in 1754, was made bishop 
in 1784. An account of his career is in Dictionary of American Biography. Concerning 
both Ettwein and Watteville see Joseph Mortimer Levering, History of Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania, 1741-1892. 

[514] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XXIV., f. 591. 

2 Concerning James White and his election as superintendent of Indian affairs for 
the Southern district see T. P. Abernethy, From Frontier to Plantation in Tennessee, 
pp. 92-99. 



478 Continental Congress 

515. The Secretary of Congress to the Governors of 
North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Oct 11, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your excellency here with enclosed 
an Act of the United States in Congress assembled for the appointment of 
a Superintendant of Indian Affairs in the Southern district ; The election 
of Mr. James White to that office; and an Act directing him to repair to 
the states of North Carolina South Carolina and Georgia and to investi- 
gate the cause of the uneasinesses between the Indian nations and the 
frontier inhabitants of North Carolina and Georgia, in which investiga- 
tion he is to consult with the executives of the three' states who are re- 
quested to afford him all the aid and protection in their power ; also a reso- 
lution to inform the executives of the states whose Citizens are subject 
to the effects of Indian hostilities that in case the Indians refuse reason- 
able terms of pacification and evince a hostile disposition Congress will 
afford the most ample protection in their power to the Citizens of the 
United States. 2 

516. Rufus King, Address before the Massachusetts House of 

Representatives. 1 

[October II, 1786.] 

Substance of the Hon. Mr. King's communications to the Legislature. 

Mr. King stated, That though our Delegates had been unsuccessful in 
their efforts to procure a redemption of the old continental bills of credit. 
as instructed, yet their exertions had been productive of such measures is, 
by pressing the other States to pay in their quotas, had procured a market 
for a part of the surplus of those bills, which had rested on the good people 
of this Commonwealth. 

That the expences of the Penobscot expedition had not yet been allowed 
by Congress from the following causes — the demands from the southern 
part of the Continent against the Union, were chiefly by individuals. The 
governments there, during the ravages of the enemy, were more deranged 
than those at the northward, and for that reason, greater exertions had been 
made by particular citizens. These demands not being supported by 
vouchers, and being thought exorbitant, had been held in some measure 
inadmissible. And it had now become a condition by their Representa- 
tives in Congress, that the expences of the Penobscot expedition should 
be allowed or not, as those demands were admitted or rejected. But that 
there was nevertheless a great prospect of those expences being allowed, as 
the southern States had taken the debts of their own citizens upon them- 

[5*5] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (to South Carolina) ; Library of Congress, Misc. MSS. (to North Carolina) ; 
ibid., Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 100; N. C. Slate Recs., XVIII. 762. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 6, 10; cf. nos. 471, 513, ante. The letter to North Carolina 
is endorsed as " reed. 14th November 1786 ". 

I516I 1 Boston Magazine (September and October, 1786), vol. III., p. 405. 



October, 1786 479 

selves, and though this had been an embarrassing circumstance in making 
requisitions, yet the States would probably agree, and then our expences 
would be more advantageously adjusted than they could have been at any 
past time, or in any other mode. 

That the delays in settling the accounts between the several States 
and the United States had been retarded by the same causes, but would 
now probably issue equally favourable to Massachusetts. This, it was to be 
hoped, would ease the minds of those citizens, who supposed that their 
burthen from unequal exertions was neglected by Congress. 

That the alloy and value of coins having been established by Congress, 
a mint would probably be soon erected, and a coin with an American im- 
pression relieve the citizens under their distresses arising from the want 
of money. 

That the demands of sundry individuals for property taken by British 
Commanders, the subject of the eastern boundary of Massachusetts, and 
the insolent conduct of a late navy Officer to our Chief Magistrate, had 
been before the British Ministry. The latter business had been noticed 
in a manner suitable to the dignity of this State. 

As to the matter of interest due to British subjects, Mr. King observed, 
that nothing final had been accomplished, but much attention had been paid 
in England to American acts which were said (and of them which post- 
poned the payments of British debts were justly said) to be breaches of 
this part of the treaty. But the treaty was the law of the land, and there 
could not be a question that the peculiarity of the situation of the two 
countries justified the wishes of Americans, as to witholding interest dur- 
ing the war. Juries had a right to determine the question, and this would 
render legislative interference unnecessary. 

That the report of the Commercial Convention was before Congress. 
The Hon. Gentleman observed, that doubts had arisen as to the mode of 
agreeing upon commercial regulations. The Confederation was the act of 
the people. No part could be altered but by consent of Congress and con- 
firmation of the several Legislatures. Congress therefore ought to make 
the examination first, because if it was done by a convention, no Legisla- 
ture could have a right to confirm it. Did any Legislature sit for such 
purpose? No. It must be referred to the people, and then what degree of 
assent was necessary to make it an article of the confederation? Whereas 
if it was conducted agreeably to the confederation, no such difficulty would 
exist. Besides, if Congress should not agree upon a report of a conven- 
tion, the most fatal consequences might follow. Congress therefore were 
the proper body to propose alterations. 

That the federal Treasury afforded a most melancholly prospect. De- 
cency forbid his making any observations upon the supplies from this 
Commonwealth, but as to the other States it was a fact, that South-Caro- 
lina had paid no monies for three years. 

Virginia and Maryland indeed had supplied liberally, and Pennsylvania 
with exactitude, but New Jersey had done little and New- York had exerted 
herself but lately. The last two years not 500,000 dollars had been received, 



480 Continental Congress 

a sum scarcely more than adequate to the ordinary charge of government. 
It has become a subject of admiration how Government existed. From 
foreign loans nothing was to be expected; the gleanings of these had 
hitherto kept things along. But what were to become of our demands 
from foreigners? the French Crown no doubt would be, as it had been, 
magnanimous ; the Spanish debt was small ; but our creditors in Holland 
were not to be put off. Educated in the science of money matters, they 
held every man as much bound as though he had sealed his obligation, and 
all property would alike be exposed to their reprisals. 

So melancholly was the state of the federal treasury that all men seemed 
to turn away from it, as an evil which admitted of no remedy. If all the 
States could be brought into the Continental Impost, this resource indeed 
might be anticipated, and the national credit strengthened in that way, but 
there remained two States which had not acceded to it, Pennsylvania and 
New- York. The situation of the former was known, and should that 
State be brought over, New-York would not dare longer to oppose the 
Union. 

That as to the domestick debt, it had been urged that the people were 
not able to pay it ; but there were not wanting means of reducing it in a 
short time. At any rate the great Representative Body of the States would 
never disgrace themselves by any dishonest measures relative to the securi- 
ties. There were good grounds for the creditors to entertain a confidence 
of this. The State of New- York had already collected their proportion 
into their treasury : and Pennsylvania had done more. They had assumed 
the debt due to individuals, by the sale of their lands, and otherwise, and 
they would not fail, therefore, to enforce an honourable payment of this 
debt — The means which Congress possessed to extinguish it, were not 
trifling. Their lands were now almost ready to be sold ; near 3000,000 
of acres would be surveyed by November next, and purchases were eagerly 
sought after. That, in short, if America had any virtue left, she might \ et 
be happy. Her resources from the impost duty, and her lands, would very 
soon relieve her from her burthens. Near half a million of dollars might 
in a short time be applied from the duty, to sinking the domestick debt, and 
this fund would in a few years be nearly adequate to extinguishing the 
whole. 

But the honourable Gentleman observed, that there was an evil in pub- 
lick affairs, infinitely greater than any he had mentioned. It was not, 
perhaps, immediately within the order, under which he had the honour to 
stand before that house; but so serious were the effects which it seemed to 
him must follow, that considerations of duty to the Legislature, and to 
his country, had emboldened him to mention it. The house, to be sure, 
would anticipate, that he spoke of the commotions now existing in Mi 
chusetts. This was viewed by Congress, as the most important subject that 
ever came before that respectable assembly. Every member considered 
himself as personally interested in it. He realized his life, liberty and 
property, as involved in the issue of their decisions. There was a league 
subsisting between the States of America, to oppose every force that should 



October, 1786 481 

arise against either of them. The United States would not be inactive on 
such an occasion. They were concerned — deeply concerned, in the result. 
If such a barrier was removed, every other government would eventually 
be swept away. Let numbers be compared; if government had only a 
minority, let it be remembered, that they had a majority of every State in 
the Union to join them. It ought not to be concealed that the British 
Packet had been dispatched a day earlier, merely in consequence of the 
commotions which had happened with us. 

Advantages might be taken of the divided state of the people, to bring 
about measures which otherwise could never be effected by the enemies of 
our country. When Congress should know this ; when they should see gov- 
ernment prostrated in the dust, what would be their feelings ? They were 
not authorized to see any government subverted. If the Speaker had been 
too earnest on this subject, he requested the pardon of the house, as he 
spoke from a fear least palliatives might be adopted where vigour was 
required. 

The Honourable Gentleman then read several private letters from a 
gentleman in office, at a foreign Court, to confirm the sentiments which he 
had advanced. 2 

517. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York i ith Ocr. 86. 
My dear Genl., 

In the full confidence you receive my letters as testimonials of my un- 
ceasing respect, and from a solicitude to acquaint you with all material 
contingencys in the administration of our national affairs, that you may 
be able to form your judgment on authentic documents, and consequently 
that your opinions being bottomed on truth may not fail to produce the 
most beneficial effects to our country, I again address you, and mean to 
confine myself to one subject, which will I apprehend soon become the topic 
of public debate. Among the defects which degrade the constitution of the 
foederal government is the physical impossibility of secrecy in the sov- 
ereignty, therefore it is often necessary to make confidential communica- 
tions, when they serve to correct the circulation of erroneous informa- 
tions on subjects of national concern which in their nature is secret, but 
from the cause just mentioned become public. Considering myself there- 
fore at full liberty to give you a history of this business, I will do it with 
brevity. 

We are told here that the decided difference which prevailed in Con- 
gress on the proposed treaty with Spain is generally understood in every 
part of the Union, and it is suggested that the project of the treaty will 
become the subject of deliberation in the Assembly of Virga. 

True it is that this affair unfortunately produced an intemperance com- 
mon in democratic bodys and always injurious to the interest of the public, 

2 Cf. the address of Nathan Dane, Nov. 9, no. 543, post. 
[517] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 140. 



482 Continental Congress 

for to judge wisely on systems and measures the mind ought to be free 
from prejudice and warmth, and influenced by a full deliberate view of 
the general effects of such system and measures. 

The eastern states consider a commercial connexion with Spain, as the 
only remedy for the distresses which oppress their citizens, most of which 
they say flow from the decay of their commerce. Their delegates haw 
consequently zealously pressed the formation of this connexion, as the 
only effectual mode to revive the trade of their country. In this opinion 
they have been joined by two of the middle states. On the other hand. 
Virginia has with equal zeal opposed the connection, because the project 
involves expressly the disuse of the navigation of the Mississippi for a 
given time, and eventually they think will sacrifice our right to it. The 
delegation is under injunctions from the state on this subject, they have 
acted in obedience to their instructions and myself excepted in conformity 
to their private sentiments. I confess that I am by no means convinced of 
the justice or policy of our instructions and very much apprehend antes* 
they are repealed by the present Assembly the fatal effects of discord in 
council will be experienced by the U. States in a very high degree. 

The project submitted by the secretary for foreign affairs was founded 
as well as I can recollect on the following principles. 

1st. The commerce between the U. S. and the King of Spain to be 
founded on the principles of perfect reciprocity, which reciprocity to be 
diffused in all the sub-regulations. 

2d. The trade to be confined to his Catholic Majestys European 
dominions. 

3d. The bona fide manufactures and produce of the respective countrys 
imported into either, to be subject to the same dutys as are paid by the citi- 
zens and subjects of the two Nations. 

4th. A Tariff to be established by convention within one year after the 
ratification of the treaty ascertaining the necessary dutys, to be imposed. 

5th. Mast and timber annually requisite for the Navy of Spain to be 
bought from the Merchants of the U. States in preference, provided they 
are equal in price and quality. 

There are some other matters which I forget. In consideration of the 
advantages of this treaty the U S stipulate to forbear for the term of the 
treaty the use of the river M. The boundarys will be (in case of treaty) 
established as fixed in the definitive treaty of peace between the U States 
and G. Britain. 

The article of tobacco is excepted in the project being the produce of 
Spanish colonies and is to continue on the present footing, which is 
favorable. 

Thus have I delineated to you the outlines of the proposed plan. 

Among the many arguments used by the advocates for the treaty I will 
mention only one which I think ought to be known. They say that the right 
of the navigation of the M. is disputed, that the use of that right is now 
suspended and cannot be possessed, but by force, or by treaty, and that 
a forbearance of the use on our part, is a confirmation of our right the 



October, 1786 483 

use of which right will be in due time possessed in consequence of the 
present project, without putting our claim to the issue of war, which is al- 
ways precarious, and for which we are totally unprepared. 

Should this matter come before our Assembly, much will depend on 
Mr. Masons sentiment. 

So many reasons founded on true policy will arise in a full investigation 
of this subject, that I cannot but hope that the state of Virginia will con- 
sider a treaty with Spain on the principles of the project, essentially neces- 
sary to her political happiness, and to her commercial aggrandizement. 2 

The sedition in Massachusetts is in some degree subsided, but is not I 
fear extinguished. 

Col. Monroe who was an aid in Lord Stirlings family, a delegate from 
Virginia in Congress will in a few days return home with his lady. 

He means to do himself the honor to pay his respects to Mount- Vernon 
in his way. 

518. James White to the President of Congress. 1 

New York nth Octobr [1786]. 
Sir, 

A letter from McGillvery, chief of the creek nation, which I have taken 
the liberty to lay before congress, induces me now to trouble their hon'ble 
body. 

If the necessity of some one, on the part of Congress to treat with that 
nation of indians appears more fully from that letter; and my office of 
superintendant calls me, I shall be happy in being able to perform the 
service ; but I beg leave to suggest that the sum of 500 doll's which, by a 
resolve of yesterday, I ought to receive, will be necessary for to enable me 
to proceed ; that I well know there is no fund in North Carolina, from 
whence I may expect the money, but from the Tobacco, lately purchased 
by the State for federal purposes; and the board of Treasury decline 
pointing out, to the State, that resource, without the express direction of 
congress. 2 

519. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Octr. 12, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my last I have receiv'd yours of the 9. of July. 2 I advis'd you 
therin of the progress that had been made by [Mr. Jay] 3 in the [Spanish 
negociation] , that he had brought [a project before Congress for shutting 

2 Cf. nos. 507, 511, ante. See also no. 509, note 2, ante, and no. 523, note 3, post. 
[518] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XXIV., f. 595. 

2 Endorsed by Thomson, " Letter 11 Oct. 1786 Jas. White S : I Affrs SD. read 
11 Oct", to which Alden has added: "for an order for 500 doll's". There is no record 
of any action being taken on the letter. 

[519] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Writings, I. 167. 
2 Jefferson's letter of July 9 is in Writings, IV. 245. 

8 Bracketed words are written in cipher. See nos. 477, 492, 499, 507, 508, ante, 
and no. 561, post. 



484 Continental Congress 

the Mississippi] and [not] for [opening it] for the term of [twenty-five] 
or [thirty years] combin'd with some [commercial stipulations], the 
latter to be the price of the former ; although admitted they [opend] no 
new [port] nor admitted us [into] those now [open upon better terms 
than] those we [now enjoyd] ; since this [project] was presented, the 
[negociation] has been more [with Congress] to [repeal the ultimata] 
than [with Spain] to carry [the instructions] into effect. I inform 'd 
you of the proposition from [Massachusetts] for the repeal in Committee 
of the whole, this was carried by [Pennsylvania] inclusive [eastward, 
Maryland] inclusive [southward] being ag'nst it. [Delaware] was 
[absent]. In the house we mov'd to postpone the report of the Committee 
in order to take up propositions to the following effect [that the negoci- 
ation] as to the [Mississippi] and [the boundaries] be taken out of the 
hands of the [secretary and committed] to [Carmichael] , the following 
points to be agreed on there and afterwards concluded here. ist. That 
[New Orleans] be made [an entrepot] for [exports] that they be shipp'd 
thence [in the bottoms of America, Spain] and [France] under the 
regulations of each party. 2d. That they pay at sd. port a duty of 2i pr. 
cent'm advalorem to [the crown] of [Spain] as a compensation for 
port duties. 3d. That [imports] be [prohibited]. 4th. That the instruc- 
tions of Annapolis be reviv'd as [the basis of a treaty] of [commerce]. 
5th. That two additional [commissioners] be [appointed] with equal 
[powers] with the [secretary] to conclude the same. Upon this there 
was precisely the same division. The question was then taken on the report 
and carried by 7. States, upon this the following proposition was mov'd, 
" is the repeal constitutionally carried by 7. States so as to give a new 
instruction materially different from the former " and set aside by the 
previous question. We are told he will proceed, but of this have no 
certain information. 

It is extraordinary he [should have taken] up [the] subject of [trade] 
as powers upon principles that applied to all [nations alike] had already 
been given under a commission which had at the time his were, near one 
year to run to [form a treaty with Spain] wh. were not repeal'd by these 
nor the subject mention'd except by a distant implication. I do suspect 
the business rests for the present untill the new [delegates] take their 
seats, in which case [he] will be govern'd by circumstances. I suspect 
the point will ultimately be carried, but this is yet doubtful. I forgot 
above to mention the [negotiation was] to have been carried on in our 
propositions under [the mediation] of [France]. I sit out to-morrow for 
Virginia with Mrs. Monroe by land .... What you find in the journals 
especially the regulation of the coin, pass'd upon the report of the B'd of 
treasury without examination— or with very little — our minds were 
generally at the time otherwise engag'd. 4 .... Tell Short he has the 
friendship of the delegation and always will have it — no appointm't of 
secretary of legation will take place to that C't and if one did he wo'd have 
the good wishes of our State. 

4 See nos. 471, 506, ante. 



October, 1786 485 

520. Charles Thomson to Richard Butler. 1 

New York Oct 13, 1786. 2 
Dear Sir, 

I send you here enclosed a letter for the rev'd J Ettwein, that you may 
forward it from Philadelphia with a line informing him where he may 
direct his letters to you. After perusing it you will do me the favour to 
seal and forward it. If it is sent either to Mr. Daniel Benezet or to the 
Moravian house in Race Street Philadelphia, it will be taken care of and 
sent on safely. 3 I heartily wish you success and satisfaction in the ad- 
ministration of your Office 

521. Charles Thomson to the Reverend John Ettwein. 1 

New York Oct 13, 1786. 
Rev'd and Dear Sir, 

A few days since I recommended to your notice Mr. James White who 
is appointed Superint't of Indian affairs for the Southern district, which 
includes all the indian nations in the territory of the U S southward of 
the Ohio. 2 The object of my recommendation was that you might have 
an opportunity of conversing with him and possibly of concerting mea- 
sures to carry the gospel of peace to those poor people. 

I have also conversed on this subject with general Richard Butler who 
is appointed Superintends of Indian affairs for the northern district which 
includes all the Indian nations in the territory of the U S northward of 
the Ohio and westward of Hudson river. 3 As the Indian Congregation 
of the Brethren lies in this district I have recommended them and their 
worthy teacher David Zeisberger to his friendly care and protection 
and he assures me it will give him singular pleasure and that he is warmly 
disposed to do them every service in his power and desires me to give 
you this information. 

It will be a great comfort to me if by any means I can any ways be 
instrumental in promoting the happiness and preserving a remnant of 
these poor poor [sic] whose condition and situation I most sincerely com- 
miserate. 4 With unfeigned affection 

I am Rev'd and Dear S'r Your obedt. h S. C. 

[520] x Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 William Samuel Johnson, as noted in his diary, was " at Congress " Oct. 9 to 13. 
Oct. 10 he " Din'd Pinkney " ; under the 12th he recorded, " Verplank returned " ; and 
under the 13th " Din'd Secr'y Thompson's ". Following the 13th he was absent until the 
20th. 

3 See no. 521, post. 

[521] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. addressed, "the Rev'd 
John Ettwein at Bethlehem ". 

2 See no. 513, ante. 

8 See no. 520, past. Richard Butler was elected superintendent for the Northern 
district Aug. 9. See no. 471, ante. 

4 Ettwein replied Nov. 4 : " Your Favours of the 9th and 13th of Octr. last were 
both sent to me from Philadelphia, the first inclosed in a very friendly Letter from James 
White and the other in a Letter from Genl. Rich'd Butler, both testify of their Willing- 
ness and kind Disposition to assist our Brethren in the good work to carry the Message 
of Peace and Salvation to the Indians under their Superintendancy, not only on account 
of your warm Recommendation but also from Motives of Virtue and Religion." Library 
of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, II. 



486 Continental Congress 

522. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

October 16th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
An Ordinance passed by the United States in Congress assembled for 
establishing a board to liquidate and settle all accounts between the United 
States and individual States. As this Ordinance contains a recommenda- 
tion to the several Legislatures to pass laws to enable the said board and the 
person or persons Commissioned by them to call before them respectively, 
witness and examine them on oath or affirmation in all matters touching 
the claims exhibited to the Board, your Excellency will be pleased to submit 
this matter to the Legislature of the State over which your preside. 2 

523. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York 17th ocr. 86. 
My dear Genl, 

In my last letter I detailed the eastern commotions and communicated 
my apprehensions of their objects and issue. 2 

G. Knox has just returned from thence and his report grounded on 
his own knowledge is replete with melancholy information. 8 .... In 
one word my dear Genl. we are all in dire apprehension that a beginning 
of anarchy with all its calamitys has approached, and have no means to 
stop the dreadful work. Individuals suggest the propriety of inviting you 
from Congress to pay us a visit, knowing your unbounded influence and 
beleiving that your appearance among the seditious might bring them 
back to peace and reconciliation — this is only a surmise and I take the 
liberty to mention it to you that should the conjuncture of affairs induce 
Congress to make this request you may have some previous time to make 
up your mind. In great hurry and real distress I am yours 

affecly. 
H. Lee Junr. 

[53a] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm.,Govcrnor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 101 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 71; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 764. 

2 The ordinance was adopted Oct. 13. See also the Journals, Sept. 5, Oct. 5, 12. Cf. 
nos. 172, 255, 317, 321, 370, 408, 506, 516, ante. The ordinance is printed in N. C. . s 
Recs., XVIII. 783, with the date Nov. 16. 

[523] * Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 Lee evidently refers to his letter of the presumed date Oct. 1, not to that of 
Oct. 11 (nos. 509, M7. ante). 

•See Knoxs reports, Journals, Oct. 4, 6, 13 (p. 875), 18; also nos. 524-526, 528, 
529, 531, 539, Post. In his reply (which is to Lee's three letters, Oct. 1, 11, and 17) Wash- 
ington says : " You talk, my good Sir, of employing influence to appease the prueul 
tumults in Massachusetts. I know not where that influence is to be found, or, if attainable, 
that it would be a proper remedy for the disorders. Influence is no gm-ennnsnt " (Writ- 
ings, ed. Ford, XI. 76, ed. Sparks, IX. 203). See no. 545, post. 



October, 1786 487 

524. Charles Pettit to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York 18th October 1786. 
Sir, 

I have to acknowledge the Receipt of your Excellency's Letter of the 
10th Instant. Time will not at present permit me to make any Observa- 
tions on the Subjects therein mentioned. The immediate Object of giving 
you the Trouble of this is a fresh Communication from the Eastward 
which represents the State of Massachusets as in a most dangerous and 
critical Situation; the Danger indeed extends immediately to all the 
Eastern States and the Consequences cannot be unimportant to the other 
States in the Union. Till very lately the Insurrections in Massachusets 
were considered as the ebulitions of Discontent arising from the transient 
Inconveniences they suffer from the Stagnation of Commerce and the 
other usual Effects of changing from the diffusive circulation of Money 
in War to the Habits of Frugality and Oeconnomy adapted to Peace. 
But the Discontents now assume a more alarming Aspect, and take Root 
in a variety of Causes which were hardly supposed to have Existence 
in America. A total Abolition of all Debts both public and Private, and 
even a general Distribution of Property, are not without Advocates. Men 
who have respectable Standings and Characters and possessed of decent 
Shares of Property are said to countenance the general Insurgency tho' 
they avowedly claim less Reform (as they call it) than the others, but 
even they propose to reliquidate the public Debts and then pay them off 
in a Paper Money to be created without Funds and to make it a legal 
Tender. Strange as it may appear, it is said that five Counties containing 
more than half the Freemen of the State have large Majorities, and some 
are almost unanimous in the Measures of Insurgency. It is conjectured, 
and the Conjecture is founded in at least plausible Circumstances, that 
foreign Influence has no little weight in their Councils — that they have 
a great Degree of Systematic Order in their Measures, and are ready on 
an Alarm to come forth an organized Army of not less than 10,000 Men 
armed and Officered. 

Whether these alarming Circumstances are magnified or not Time 
must discover, but these Communications are from high Authority. 
Prudence however requires that they be made a discreet use of. Your 
Excellency's known Prudence and Judgment can only justify me in the 
Communication I am now making, and at present I trust you will not 
extend it as it is under a Seal of Secrecy in Congress. Some Resolutions 
will probably issue for an Augmentation of Troops, the Reasons assigned 
for which may be our Intelligence respecting the Western Indians; but 
in Fact this Augmentation seems to be necessary to the preservation of 
interior Government. 2 

[524] 1 Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. XXXIV., no. 155. 

2 See Knox's report, Oct. 18, and the resolves Oct. 20 and 21. The committee 
report Oct. 20 is upon Knox,'s letters of Oct. 16 and 19, respecting threatened troubles in 
the western country {Journals, p. 891 n.), while that of Oct. 21 is based also upon his letter 
of Oct. 18, respecting Massachusetts. Cf. no. 523, ante, and nos. 525, 526, 528, 529, post. 



488 Continental Congress 

I write in too much Haste to be accurate or correct but on such an 
Occasion your Excellency will excuse Blemishes of this Kind The 
Wisdom of the most experienced is not too much for a Crisis of this 
Kind, I shall therefore hope for some Observations on the Subject from 
your Excellency. 

The last Minute of the Post hour is arrived 

525. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

Dear Gerry, New York 19 Oct. 1786. 

I mentioned to you my apprehension of a very dangerous and extensive 
indian war. on my return here 2 I found my fears but too well founded. 
Georgia and Virginia are in arms, the protection of the Citizens of the 
states bordering on the Ohio is required of congress. You know that 
we have entertained well founded expectations of discharging a large 
portion of the federal domestic Debt by the sales of the Western Lands; 
the Indians now appear to have united to oppose the survey and settle- 
ment of that country; this combination is most unjust, since we have 
fairly and bona fide extinguished their claims. The monies expended in 
Treaties with, and presents to, these very indians, since the year 1775 will 
exceed a hundred Thousand specie Dollars, this is too much to lose, to 
do ourselves justice and protect the Frontiers together with the surveys 
of the indian cessions, congress this day resolved to augment the federal 
troops to a legionary Corps to consist of two thousand men. the cavalry 
amounting to one hundred and twenty men are quotaed on Maryland and 
Virginia, the infantry and artillery are quotaed upon the four Eastern 
states 

77- New Hamp 260 

Massa 660 

R. Island 120 

Con't 180 



1280 [sic] 

The troops now in service are from Pensylvania N. Jersey, New York 
and Connecticut ; when these men were raised our Legislature, not being 
called on for any part of them, passed an instruction to their Delegates, 
that in case any more men should be required, that the Legislature would 
choose to furnish their quota, we therefore met the wishes of congress 
in agreeing that our quota of the troops now required should stanc 
large a proportion of the whole number, the act is not quite completed ; 
I hope it will be forwarded on Saturday or monday. But you must 
impress upon the minds of our monicd friends the indispensable necessity 
of a Loan of monies upon an engagement of congress of a reimburse- 
ment from existing Requisitions or some other Funds. 8 



[525] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc.. King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 191. 
2 King had recently_been in Boston. See no. 516,. on/f. 

dated Nov. 29 
ture voted to 



- r\.lll£; Il€»U ICV-tllllJ IH.V.H III 1JU31UII. JCt UU, JI17, UHU. 

» See the Journals, Oct. 18-21 ; cf. nos. 529, 533, post. Gerry's reply, da 
(October ?), is in Life of King, I. 197. "Yesterday ', he says, "the Legislati 



October, 1786 489 

526. Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

New York 19th ocr. 86. 
My dear sir, 

In our letter of this date to the assembly you will know our sentiments 
on the interesting subject of finance. 2 I am persuaded if the suggestions 
meet the approbation of the Legislature and any plans calculated on the 
principles of our letter, should be properly executed much good will accrue 
to the state. 

We omitted one subject which involves the respectability of our country 
vis that of a well disciplined and well appointed militia, this matter having 
been under consideration very often and meeting with different issues, we 
have declined renewing it now, presuming that the difhcultys which did 
obstruct the formation of a proper system are still alive, and will continue 
to operate with similar effect. But really when we look around us here, 
and observe the exertions in these countrys to acquire this national defence, 
we lament the indifference which pervades our country on this important 
subject. I transmit for the perusal of those who wish information on 
military arrangements the report of the secretary of war relative to the 
organization of Militia. This performance does honor to the genius of 
the secretary, but its utility depends entirely on the execution, which in 
the situation of American affairs we apprehend will be subject to much- 

difficulty. 3 The eastern commotions are becoming very serious 

the U. S. who ought to be able to aid the government of particular states 

in distresses like these are scarcely able to maintain themselves 

Congress have received authentic information touching these points 4 and 
are now in consultation how to ward off the blow 



527. Henry Lee to Henry St. George Tucker. 1 

Oct. 20th N. York '86. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Your narrative of the proceedings of the Convention at An- 
napolis was followed in a few days by a letter from the Chairman to the 
president of Congress. With difficulty the friends to the system adopted 
by the convention induced Congress to commit your report, altho' all were 

comply with the Requisition. Some however of the country members laugh and say the 
Indian war is only a political one to obtain a standing Army". (The Massachusetts re- 
solves complying with the requisition bear the date Oct. 30. Acts and Resolves, 1786- 1787, 
PP- 374-376.) See no. 524, ante, and no. 529, post. Cf. Christopher Gore to King Nov. 7 
and 26 (Life of King, I. 195, 196), and Stephen Higginson to General Knox, Nov. 12, 
25, 1786, and Jan. 20, 1787 (Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, I. 741-745). 
[526] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 The letter to the assembly has not been found. 

3 Knox's plan for the organization of the militia was offered in Congress Mar. 18 
and on Sept. 11 was recommended by a committee for adoption. See nos. 352, 374, ante. 
Lee failed to include the report, but sent it with his letter of Oct. 25 (no. 531, post). 

4 That is, the ostensible purposes of the insurgents, such as revision of the con- 
stitution, and what appears to be their real aims, namely, abolition of debts, etc. 

[527] x Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, II. 



490 Continental Congress 

truly sensible of the respect manifested by the convention to this body, 
and all zealous to accomplish the objects proposed by the authors of the 
commercial convention. Indeed their conviction of the inadequacy of the 
present federal government render them particularly zealous to amend 
and strengthen it. But different opinions prevail as to the mode; some 
think with the Annapolis meeting, others consider Congress not only the 
constitutional but the most eligible body to originate and propose necessary 
amendments to the confederation, and others prefer State conventions 
for the express purpose, and a congress of deputys, appointed by these 
conventions with plenipotentiary powers. 2 .... 



528. Nathaniel Gorham to the Governor of Massachusetts 

(James Bowdoin). 1 

N York Oct. 22d 1786. 
Sir, 

The affairs of the Western Country are in such a state as to induce 
Congress to propose an augmentation of the Troops 2 — a considerable 
number of which are assigned to Massachusetts, if the General Court 
should agree to raise them ; good Officers will be necessary. I presume 
your Excellency will have the best information on this head, and I wish 
not to offer my poor advice upon the occasion, but justice to the character 
of Major North 8 who is going to Boston induces me to mention him to 
your Excellency as a Gent'n who supports the fairest reputation, and is 
spoken of by all the military Men as an excellent Officer. 



529. Charles Pettit to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York 23d October 1786. 
Sir, 

I did myself the Honour to write to your Excellency some Days ago on 
the Subject of the Disorders in Massachusetts. 2 At that Time the Intelli- 

2 See nos. 503, 510-512, ante. William Samuel Johnson's diary entry under Oct. 20 
is, "at Verplanks Congress War Officers" (the usual "at Congress" is lacking). The 
entry is probably an allusion to the resolution of that day respecting the formation of a 
legionary corps. On the 21st (Saturday) he was "at Congress", as also on the 23d. 
From that date until Dec. 28 he was absent. 

[528] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 21; also nos. 525, 526, ante. Thomson transmitted the 
act to the states the same day, remarking that it was " passed by the Unanimous Vote 
of the ten States now represented in Congress" (Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 102; N. C. 
Stale Recs., XVIII. 768). On Oct. 21 Thomson also transmitted to the states the ordi- 
nance of Oct. 16 for the establishment of a mint, requesting its publication (ibid., p. 769). 

8 Major William North, appointed by General Steuben in March, 1784, and con- 
firmed by Congress Apr. 15, 1784, as "inspector to the troops remaining in the service 
and pay of the United States ". Ho was the bearer of this letter. In the letter of Stephen 
Higginson to General Kimx Nov. 12, me nti oned under no. 525, note 3, anW, the name 
appears in the printed text as " Capt. Worth ". 

[529]' Am. Phil. Soc., Franklin Papers, vol. XXXIV., no. 158. 

2 No. 524, ante. 



October, 1786 491 

gence from that Country, and of the hostile Movements of the Indians 
to the Westward were under Reference to a Committee of which it was 
my burthensome Lot to be Chairman, and the Business has engrossed 
much of my Time since. The acts of Congress on this Occasion will be 
communicated to your Excellency by the Secretary ; 3 but as the most 
energetic Motives which called on Congress for Expedition and which 
would probably urge the States to Exertion, could not with Propriety be 
publickly declared, these Acts may require some Explanation. I am not at 
Liberty, however, to give this Explanation without an Injunction that, 
while the Reasons for Secrecy continue, it be not published. Your Excel- 
lency will, I trust make the proper Use of it for the Purposes intended 
without hazarding the Consequences intended to be guarded against by the 
Caution which Congress have thought proper to use. 

For the Purpose of giving this Explanation I shall inclose a Copy of a 
separate Report of the Committee, which has been agreed to and ordered 
to be entered in the secret Journals. This Copy however is taken from the 
rough Draught and corrected from Memory according to the Alterations 
made in the House; it may not therefore be an exact Copy, but it is 
nearly so. 4 

In the present impoverished state of the Treasury we could think of 
no Method so likely to raise the Money speedily as by a Loan ; and we 
could not ask a Loan without pledging more than a Promise on worn out 
public Faith for the Repayment. The existing Requisitions were already 
appropriated. We therefore deemed it necessary to make a new Requisition 
expressly for this Purpose. The Goodness of this Fund will depend on 
the Exertions of the States. 5 Congress are so deeply impressed with the 
Urgency of the Occasion that they have been unanimous in the Measures 
they have taken. The States however, not being possessed of equal In- 
formation may not feel an equal Call to speedy Exertion; hence a kind 
of Necessity arises of some confidential Communications which is now 
submitted to your Excellency's Discretion. 

P. S. Since writing the foregoing a Motion has been made to take off 
the Injunction of Secrecy so far as to admit of the making such con- 
fidential Communications as I am making to your Excellency. There 
being diversity of sentiments among the Members, the Motion went off" 
without a Decision. 6 Your Excellency will therefore perceive how far 

3 See no. 528, note 2, ante, and no. 532, post. 

4 This was no doubt the report found in the Journals Oct. 21 (p. 895) endorsed 
as " Private report ". 

5 The special requisition is in the Journals, Oct. 21, with a resolution for opening 
a loan to the amount of five hundred thousand dollars, " on the credit of the foregoing 
requisition ". See the circular letter of the board of treasury Nov. 7, relative to the acts 
of Oct. 20 and 21 (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 86). 

6 Such a motion does not appear in the Journals. It is noteworthy however that 
on the day this letter was written Congress unanimously adopted a resolution authorizing 
the secretary for foreign affairs, in the event that the safety and interest of the United 
States appeared to require it, to inspect any letters in the post offices, excepting letters 
franked by or addressed to members of Congress. 

38 



492 Continental Congress 

I commit myself in forwarding this Letter, but conceiving it to be for the 
public Benefit, and having perfect Confidence in your Excellency, I con- 
ceive the Doing of it as the performance of a Duty. 

530. The Secretary of Congress to George Read. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

October 24th 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of laying before the United States in Congress 
Assembled your letter of the 7th which I reed, this morning, and in 
answer thereto, I have it in charge to inform you, u that Congress having 
given public notice to all persons concerned, that the Court of Appeals 
would assemble at New York on the first Monday of November next, they 
cannot dispense with the punctual attendance of the Members of that 
Court." 2 



531. Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

New York 25th Ocr. 1786.* 
dear sir, 

You now have the report from the secretary of war mentioned in my 
last letter and omitted. 8 

The opinions I conveyed then relative to the eastern commotions are 
daily supported by additional intelligence. 

The eastern gentlemen here are confirmed in sentiments on this matter 
and beleive that the discontents will never be settled but by the sword. Per- 
haps their apprehension may have some operation in their judgement : but 
whether so or not is immate[ri]al, for it is unquestionably true that 
present appearances portend extensive national calamity — the contagion 
will spread and may reach Virginia. 

[530] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 103 (in the writing of Roger 
Alden). 

2 See the motion of Rufus King, in the Journals, Oct. 24. The time for the 
meeting of the court was fixed in a resolution of June 27. See no. 431, ante. Read wrote 
Oct. 7 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIX., f. 551) that, as he had represented his state 
in the Annapolis convention and was the only representative of his state who had a seat in 
the legislative council, he had deemed it important that he attend the session of the 
legislature in November in order to lay before that body the results of the convention. 
He had understood that his colleague, Cyrus Griffin, purposed attending the Virginia 
legislature for the same purpose. Moreover, it had been his apprehension that attendance 
at court would depend upon the results of the convention at Annapolis. Accordingly he 
requested that the time be postponed until the latter part of November or the beginning 
of December. On Nov. 3 he wrote Thomson in reply to this letter that the Delaware 
assembly had broken up unexpectedly and that he would set out for New York in a day 
or two. Ibid., f. 567. 

[531] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 The date appears to have been first written " 27th ", then changed to 25th. James 
Manning wrote to Rev. Samuel Jones Oct. 25, "This day I resign my seat in Congress, 
and shall, for the remainder of my life, bid adieu to politics ". Elsewhere in the letter 
he says that he will sail for Rhode Island tomorrow. The letter is among the Manning 
Papers in possession of Brown University. 

3 See no. 526, ante. 



October, 1786 493 

The objects of the malcontents are alluring to the vulgar and the 
impotency of government is rather an encouragement to, than a restraint 
on, the licentious. Carrington left us a few days past to assist Col. 
Grayson, whose situation demanded this attention — this leaves me alone, 
tomorrow I expect his return, when I hope Grayson and his family will 
arrive. 4 

his misfortune is truely lamentable but will soon yield I trust to 
relaxation from business and the company of his friends. 

532. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Oct: 27th, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed, 
An Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, bringing again to 
your view the resolutions of the 30th April 1784, 2 and earnestly recom- 
mending to the Legislature of Your State to revise their Act, and pass 
it in such conformity to the said resolutions as to enable Congress to 
exercise the powers therein mentioned as soon as possible. I also enclose 
a copy of the resolutions of the 30th April 1784. 

[The above paragraph constituted the letter to New Hampshire and 
North Carolina. Following the first mention of " 30th April 1784 " the 
letter to Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and South Carolina reads : ] 
and recommending to the legislature of your State so far to amend their 
act as to vest the powers therein contained for the term of fifteen years 
from the day on which Congress shall begin to exercise the same. 3 

[The letter to Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, 
Delaware, Virginia, and Georgia contains the following addition : ] and 
the acts passed by the several states in consequence thereof. 

533. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of Massa- 
chusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York, 28 Oct 1786. 
Sir, 

In obedience to the Resolve of the general court transmitted to us by 
your Excellency we have requested of Congress a prolongation of the 

4 Carrington was evidently not in attendance Oct. 26 (Thursday) but was on 
Monday the 30th, as Virginia is recorded as being represented that day. 

[532] l N, C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 104. 

2 It is to be observed that there were three letters, to different groups of states. 
This first clause is identical in all three. The committee report and the consequent resolu- 
tions are in the Journals, Oct. 23. 

3 Ibid. ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 79. It is to be observed that " recommending " 
is not in this instance qualified by " earnestly ", as in the letter to New Hampshire and 
North Carolina. The secretary has followed the language of the resolutions respectively. 

[533] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York (signed by 
Gorham, King, and Dane). 



494 Continental Congress 

time limited for the receit of Indents of interest on the requisition of 
the 27 of Sept 1785 ; this proposition, according to the usual practice in 
like cases, has been referred to the Board of treasury for their report. 
Some time has in this way been consumed, the report however is now 
before Congress; but as the dissolution of this assembly will take place 
in a few days, so few of the States are now represented that no business of 
importance can receive a decision. Our request therefore must be post- 
poned till the meeting of the next Congress. 2 

Although we have exerted ourselves to obtain an act, at this time, au- 
thorizing the measure we propose, yet from the condition of this business 
in most of the States, we can discover no certain inconvenience which will 
flow from the want of a present Decision. In Connecticut, New Jersey and 
North Carolina, the requisition of Sept 1785 has not been complied with 
even by a legislative act for levying their respective quotas upon their 
citizens. In most of the other States, which have passed legislative acts 
for such Levies, the collection is equally in arrear with Massachusetts;, 
connecting therefore the views and interest of such States with those of 
Connecticut, New Jersey, and North Carolina, there is the highest proba- 
bility that a large majority of the States must advocate the propriety, and 
contend for the establishment, of a resolution of Congress, extending the 
time within which Indents upon the requisition of 1785 may be 
received 

534. Nathaniel Gorham to Thomas Ivers. 1 

N York Oct. 28, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have been under the necessity of borrowing some money of a Friend 
in this place for which I have given him a Bill on you for 300 dollars. 
He has I find sent it on to Mr. Flint. I must intreat your exertions that 
it may be paid as I cannot leave this place without the negotiation of that 
sum at least. I have no doubt Mr. Henshaw or Capt. Hendly would oblige 
me thus farr, and I shall be much obligated to you for your assistance. 

535. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(.William Smallwood). 1 

Octr. 31, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

We have had the honor of receiving your Excellencys Letter of the 
4th Octr. respecting the application of Mr. Charles Lansdale for the cross 
posts from Baltimore to Porttobacco. 

We have not heard as yet of the arrival of Mr. Lansdale at this place, 

2 The motion of the Massachusetts delegates was referred to the board of treasury 
Oct. 16, and the board reported Oct. 31. An endorsement on the report states, "This 
matter settled by requisition of 1787 ". 

T534] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll.. M. O. C. (directed to "Mr. Treasurer Ivers"). 

[.S35] 1 Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, X. 52 (in the writing of John Henry, and signed 
bv Hairy, Harrison, and Ramsey). 



November, 1786 495 

as soon as he does, Your Excellency may be assured that we shall afford 
him all the Aid and assistance in our power. 

If he applies soon and will enter into the necessary engagements, there 
can be no doubt but he will succeed, as we have not heard of any other 
person who has applied for this rout. 2 

536. John Henry to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

Novr. 1. 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Since my former letter to your Excellency I have had a short Note 
from the Gentleman to whom I alluded in my first to you respecting our 
question of the domestic Debt. 2 As this object is weighty and as many of 
the public Securities are now in the hands of the Individual States, 
which effectually takes them out of circulation, they delay making their 
proposals untill they can ascertain with some certainty the quantity that 
is there hoarded up. 

Your Excellency will receive some important information through Mr. 
Chase and the reason why it did not go immediately to you, which I hope 
will be satisfactory. 



537. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

Novr. 4th, 1786. 
Sir, 

The 5th of the Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union pro- 
vides that for the more convenient management of the general Interest of 
the United States, Delegates shall be annually appointed in such manner 
as the Legislature of each State shall direct to meet in Congress on the first 
Monday in November in every Year. The federal Year now drawing to 
a close, and few Delegates appearing to take their seats on Monday next, 
the Congress previous to their rising have commanded me to inform Your 
Excellency that the present critical situation of public Affairs requires the 
immediate assembling of the States in Congress, and that it is their earnest 
desire that your Excellency would urge the attendance of the Delegates 
for your State with all possible dispatch. 2 In executing this command 
I have the honor to be with the greatest respect etc. 

2 Such appointments were the province of the postmaster general, but Congress 
had under consideration, Oct. 26 to Nov. 3, various aspects of the business of transporting 
the mails. Cf. no. 471, note 4, ante. 

[536]!]^. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 51. 

2 See no. 491, ante. 
[537] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers (in the writing of Roger Alden) ; Library 
of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 105. 

2 Such an order to the secretary does not appear in the Journals. See no. 544, post. 



496 Continental Congress 

538. John Kean to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

Sir, 

Herewith I send you sundry papers relative to the Ship South CaroJinas 
expedition against the Bahama islands in 1782 in conjunction with the 
forces of Spain under the command of General Cagigal 2 which may serve 
to elucidate the claim of the State of South Carolina for an allowance for 
their Ship on that expedition; and which the Minister at the court of 
Madrid is directed by resolution of the 3d May 1784 to use his best en- 
deavours to obtain. 

It may not be improper to mention that the Prince De Luxembourg is a 
party concerned in any monies that may be obtained; therefore through 
him the court of France may be induced to instruct their minister at the 
court of Spain to second the efforts of our minister in this affair. 

Hanover Square Novem'r 4th, 1786. 

P. S. Be so good as to acknowledge the receipt of the papers. 

539. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York, Nov. 5th, 1786. 
My Dear Friend, 

We are encouraged in our Hopes and Wishes for the Safety and honor 
of the commonwealth by the Papers and Letters which last Post brought 
us. Persevere and you will establish the authority of Government 

There will not be wanting leaders of name and consideration to con- 
duct them. 2 We all have our preferences and aversions, and perhaps in 
general they are both alike unfounded. I confess, however, that with the 
single exception of one French nobleman, I have always been more willing 
to confide in the citizens of our Country, novel as their employments have 
been, than in the most plausible, or experienced, Foreigners who have been 
among us. Although in some instances we may have received benefits from 
Foreigners in the public service, yet I have rejoiced when the obliga- 
tion has been discharged and they have quitted America. 

Some Adventurers yet remain; they have their Rendezvous and their 
Leader. Concerning his merits and pretensions, even you and I my Friend, 
have held different opinions. I know that he was a Soldier of Fortune and 
a mercenary in Europe; and notwithstanding his affected Philanthropy 
and artificial Gentleness, I hold his character the same in America; the 
only difference is this ; in Europe he received little money, and less Flattery. 
In America, the Sovereign of it, having added bounty to the exact Justice 
and possessed him of real monies exceeding in amount the life aggregate 

r 5j8 1 J Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., f. 625; Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 324- 

^ce no. 33y, ante. The papers transmitted are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1780, 
III. 324-345. See also Jay to Kean Nov. 7, 8 (ibid., p. 346), and no. 546, post. 
[539] x N- Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original and copy) ; Life of King, I. 192. 

2 That is, the Massachusetts insurgents. See nos. 509, 517, 523-526, 528, 529, 531, 
ante, 545. 548, 551, 552, 558, 559, Post. 



November, if86 497 

of the Revenues of a prince of the German Empire, he has, from this cir- 
cumstance of preference and from the adulation of sycophants, been buoyed 
up to the preposterous Belief, that his military Talents are superior to 
those of any Soldier in America. "Alieni appetens, sui profusus " 3 was 
the character of the man who plotted the destruction of Rome ; the same 
Dispositions and the like desperate Fortune mark the man who openly 
justifies the Conduct of the Insurgents, and who will head them, if their 
cause prospers. I inclose you his performance of the ist instant, under 
the signature of " Bellisarius ". These opinions are his hourly conversa- 
tion. 4 Farewell — Remember that the times are critical and that I write in 
confidence. 

540. John Henry to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

N. York Novr. 5, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Excellency will oblige me, by forwarding the enclosed Letter to 
the Gentleman who shall be appointed president of the Senate. It respects 
myself and I am desirous that it should be received before the Legislature 
shall proceed to the Election of the Delegates to Congress. 2 

I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that Mr. Barckley has 
concluded a treaty with the Emperor of Morocco. We have not yet received 
it, but are assured that it is equally favourable with any that now sub- 
sists with the European powers. 3 

3 Sallust's Cataline, 5:4. ("Eager for another's, lavish of his own.") 

4 He means Baron Steuben, as definitely indicated by an endorsement on the re- 
tained copy of this letter. See Life of King, I. 193 n. Cf. no. 545, post. The article signed 
" Bellisarius ", which appeared in the New York Daily Advertiser of Nov. 1, is a rather 
curious performance. One of the imperfections of a republic, the writer remarks in the 
outset, is said to be that its secrets are too easily penetrated. "Although the secret pro- 
ceedings of Congress ", he continues, " are impervious to our view ; surely when the drum 
beats, we may be permitted to ask what means the noise? Now the trumpet sounds, the 
temple of Janus is opened, legions are to be raised, but where is the enemy ? from what 
parts is the empire threatened ? there lies the secret, and as since no one's curiosity has 
yet excited him to the enquiry, let us take the liberty to conjecture." He decides that 
the enemy against whom the legions are intended can not be Great Britain, Spain, Holland, 
the Algerines, or even the Indians. " Since we are in the field of conjecture we will just 
ask, whether there can be any design against the insurgents"; and that conjecture, he 
suggests, is more absurd than all the others, since the insurrection is at an end and the 
leaders of the malcontents are imprisoned. " We will believe ", he concludes, " for the 
sake of common sense, that this armament is intended for some secret expedition." See 
also King's "Anecdote of the Baron de Steuben ", in Life of King, I. 194. While there 
appears to have been no doubt at the time that Steuben was the author of the Bellisarius 
article, he has left definite evidence that he was its author. In the library of Hamilton 
College is a letter from Steuben to Major William North, dated Oct. 27, with two further 
installments Oct. 29 and a third Oct. 30, entirely relating to the preparation of that 
article. In the evening of Oct. 29 he stated that he had finished the article and had signed 
it " Belisarius ". For information respecting this letter the editor is indebted to the 
kindness of Gen. John M. Palmer, .who has been engaged for several years in the prepara- 
tion of a life of Steuben. It is pertinent to observe that Steuben's letter of Nov. 2, 1786, 
to Prince Henry of Prussia (see no. 495, note 3, ante) was written the day following the 
publication of the Bellisarius article. 

[540] !Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 50. 

2 It is not known what the enclosure was. 

8 Barclay's letter, dated July 31, announcing the consummation of the treaty, was 
laid before Congress by the secretary for foreign affairs Nov. 2 ; but the first information 



498 Continental Congress 

541. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Xkwyork November 5th [6th?] 1786. 2 
Sir, 

I arrived here last Night and today I have seen the Commissioners of 
the Treasury who inform me that they wrote your Excellency some Time 
past respecting the Tobacco belonging to the State of North Carolina in 
which they had informed you that they had not receved a better offer 
from any other hand than those made by Morris and Romayne and that 
as the Council of North Carolina had resolved that neither of their Offers 
ought to be accepted it was not in their power to do any thing with it. The 
Secretary of the Board has promised to give me a Duplicate of the Com- 
missioners letter and if he does I shall forward it by this or the first 
conveyance that offers after I receve it. 3 At present there are only Mem- 
bers of Congress enough in Town to represent four or five States, when 
there will be a sufficient Number to form Congress I can form no Opinion. 
Mr. Nash yet continues much indisposed and I fear will not shortly be 
able to attend Congress — this makes it more essentially necessary that some 
other of the Gentlemen in the Delegation should come on without delay — 
which I hope will be the Case. 4 

542. Charles Pettit to the Speaker of the Pennsylvania 
Assembly (Thomas Mifflin). 1 

New York 8th November 1786. 
Sir, 

When the Delegates of Pennsylvania were honoured with the Instruc- 
tions of the late House of Assembly to obtain from Congress an Order 
that the Sum of £ 32,429. 15. 7 of the Bills of Credit emitted by the 
State in the year 1781, then lying in the Continental Loan Office should 
be paid into the State Treasury and passed to the Debit of the State in 
the General Account, there were not a sufficient Number of States pres- 
ent to pass such an Order if they had been so disposed. The Instructions 

of the signing of the treaty came from the charg£ d'affaires of France. See Jay to Jef- 
ferson Oct. 27, in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 794. See also Barclay's letters to 
Adams and Jefferson June 26, July 16, Aug. 11 (ibid., I. 805, 814, 815), Carmichael to 
Jefferson July 15, 31, Aug. 17, Sept. 4 (ibid., pp. 700, 806, 817, 819), Carmichael to Jay 

Iuly 15, Aug. 14, Sept. 2 (ibid., III. 311-322), and Jefferson to Jay Sept. 26 (ibid., I. 812), 
an. 9, 1787 (ibid., II. 18). Cf. no. 549, post. 
[541] 1 N. C Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Rccs., XVIII. 777. 

2 Twice Blount indicates that this letter was written on the 6th. First, on the 7th 
he wrote to Caswell: "I had the honor to address your Excellency yesterday by Mr. 
Cutting, as yet only five States have appeared on the floor of Congress. Inclosed I 
send you several Papers of this date" (N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. 
State Recs., XVIII. 779)- Secondly, in his letter of Nov. 16 (no. 548, post) he states 
that he arrived on the 5th, which was Sunday. 

8 The letter of the board of treasury to Governor Caswell, dated Oct. II, is in 
N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 761. See no. 412, ante. The secretary of the board of treasury 
was William Duer. 

* See nos. 547, 548, 557, 559, post. 
[542] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 886; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 87. 



November, 1786 499 

however, being public, became a Subject of Conversation, and your Dele- 
gates had no Difficulty in discerning that to make the Application in Form, 
even when Congress was more full, would not be attended with Success ; 
it was therefore delayed, or rather withdrawn, for the Motion was made 
and some Debate had upon it. 2 A Negotiation was set on Foot with the 
Board of Treasury on the Subject; but the Sum stated not agreeing with 
the Amount reported by the Loan Officer, of that kind of Money in his 
Hands ; and the Board not having clear Conceptions of the Circumstances 
under which that Money rested in the Loan Office, they did not choose to 
give any Opinion on the Matter, till they should receive farther 
Information. 

Mean while the Comptroller General of the State demanded from the 
Loan Officer, 390,000 Dollars of the New Emission Money of March 
1780, and pursued the Demand in a Manner that occasioned minute En- 
quiry and Investigation. 3 

Perceiving, however, that Matters were tending towards a Contest 
between the two Officers, rather than towards Accommodation, and that 
it might lead to a Discussion which it might be more prudent to avoid, I 
thought it best, before an Appeal should be made to the Principals on 
either side of the Question, to propose a Conciliatory Plan to the Board 
of Treasury, especially as I had reason to believe they were taking Mea- 
sures to turn into Circulation upwards of 50,000 Dollars of the New Emis- 
sion Money of 1780, which is that Part of the Money in dispute which, 
according to their View of the Matter they had a Right to app[rop]riate, 
and which I supposed would in some Measure derange the Plan formed 
for the Redemption of that Species of Money. The Measures taken by 
the Comptroller seemed to have created some Degree of Resentment. I told 
them that I understood those Measures to be entirely his own without any 
Directions from superior Authority ; that without enquiring into the Pro- 
priety of them, I wished on the present Occasion to wave them altogether, 
as I conceived that the Proposals 1 should make, if acceded to, would 
supercede and bury them in oblivion. I drew up a Memorandum of which 
the inclosed Paper No. 1 is a Copy. At the same Time I told them I was 
not authorized on the Part of the State to make the Proposition, it was 
therefore not to be considered as binding on them, even if they should 
signify their Willingness to agree to it, till the State should cloathe it with 
Authority on their Part. After some Conversation on the Expendiency 
of avoiding a Dispute which might and probably would occasion the with- 
holding from the federal Treasury Payments to a much greater Amount 
than the Sum they were aiming to avail themselves of, they seemed to 
acquiesce in my Opinion, and gave me Reason to suppose they would 
report in Favour of transferring the 78,642 Dol's of the State Money 
to the Debit of the State in the general Account, tho' they would not 

2 This may have been the motion mentioned in the Journals under Jan. 27 (p. 29 n.). 

3 See Comptroller John Nicholson to President Franklin July 15, with enclosures 
(Nicholson to the board of treasury Nov. 29, 1785, and July 8, 1786), in Pa. Arch., first 
ser., XI. 33-34. 



500 Continental Congress 

do it without an Order from Congress. We therefore moved a Resolu- 
tion to that Effect which was referred to the Board for Report. They kept 
it under Reference for several Weeks. The Paper No. 2 contains a Copy 
of the Report which was made some Days ago; since which we have not 
had a Congress. 4 

You will observe that the Board seem to consider the 78,642 Dollars 
State Money as a good Payment towards the 390,000 Dollars ; but that, 
supposing it to be otherwise, they do not mean to comply with the Desire 
of the State in passing it to the general Account. Whether their present 
Difficulties in Money Matters will induce them to issue it or not is uncer- 
tain; but they seem to conceive they have a Right to do it at its depre- 
ciated Value and to pass it to the Credit of the State at such Value only. 

The Schedule (No. 3) affords much Matter for Melancholly Reflection. 5 
That Pennsylvania stands foremost in her Exertions to support the federal 
Credit, may afford some Consolation to her Citizens. But the Aggregate 
of the Delinquencies is too great to be safely submitted to; and the 
Lethargy which generally prevails in the States seems to threaten a ruinous 
Increase of them. 

We have as yet but six States represented in the new Congress. This 
Week will close the Attendance of Col. Bayard. I wish much to be relieved 
even if it be but for a short Time. I therefore hope that at least two of 
my hon'ble Colleagues will shortly appear. 



543. Nathan Dane, Address before the Massachusetts House of 

Representatives. 1 

[November 9, 1786.] 
This day, in compliance with a vote of the Honourable House of AV/>- 
resentativcs , the Hon. Nathan Dane, Esq; appeared before them, and made 
a statement of the situation of public affairs. 

The Hon. Gentlemen [sic] observed, that many subjects of importance 
now employ the public attention ; but as most of them have been long under 
consideration, as the Hon. House was well informed generally in the 
affairs of the Union, and had lately received particular communications, 

* The report of the board of treasury, dated Oct. 31, is ibid., pp. 70-82, and in the 
Journals under Nov. 3. The memorandum ( Paper no. 1 ) referred to has not been found. 
A memorandum found in Committee Book, no. 100, quoted in the Journals under Sept. 1 1 
(p. 645 n.) probably pertains to this controversy. Cf. the reports of the board of treasury 
June 22, 29, July 19 (Journals, June 27, July 3, 20, 25 V Cf. no. 800, post. 

8 Enclosure no. 3 was probably the " schedule of deficiencies " prepared by the 
board of treasury, in obedience to the resolve of Oct. 17, to accompany the requisition of 
Aug. 2 to the states (see no. 501, note 3. ante). The schedule is embodied in a circular 
letter dated Nov. 13, which is not however found in Pa. Arch*, XI., I>ut is printed in 
N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 779. See no. 547, note 10, post. 

In the Library of Congress, Morgan- Stauffer Collection of the Signers, is a letter from 
Charles Pettit to John Nicholson, dated Dec. 21, 1786, discussing some statements in 
Nicholson's View of the Debts and Expenses of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 
and of the Funds and Revenue of the Same (Philadelphia, Robert Aitken, December, 1786' 
see Evans, Am. Bibliog., vol. VII., no. 19904). 

[543] 1 Boston Magasine (November and December, 1786), vol. III. p. 439. 



November, 1/86 501 

he presumed it would be proper for him only to mention some things of 
more immediate concern and more particularly attended to of late. 

He observed, the general impost-system, the compleat adoption of which 
was so much to be wished for, remains nearly in the state in which it has 
been for several months past ; that eleven States had adopted it, and the 
objections of the other two, New- York and Pennsylvania^ he presumed, 
were considered of less weight, than they have been hertofore, and found 
not so many supporters; that those of the former were principally sup- 
posed to be founded in their constitution, and those of the latter in the 
condition of their internal debt. On the whole it may be reasonably hoped, 
that a measure, on the adoption of which so much good must apparently 
result to the Union, and on the non-adoption of which, so much evil will 
be acceded to by these States, whose characters are respectable, whose 
dispositions are federal, and he clearly conceived were interested in adopt- 
ing the measure. 

As to the supplementary funds, Mr. Dane observed, that there is not 
much reason to expect they will be established ; that a few of the States 
only had passed any acts on the subject, and he believed that most of these 
acts, when carefully examined would be found ineffectual. And on men- 
tioning this subject, he could not help observing, with pain and anxiety, 
the success particular men have had in impressing on the minds of many 
persons, in the remote parts of this State, in particular, an idea that their 
present burdens are principally occasioned by the establishment of these 
funds, and to be continued twenty-five years, when in fact these funds are 
not in existence, and if they were they could constitute but above one fifth 
part of the present tax; that it was a matter of surprize to him, that 
representations so false and so insiduous, could gain credit with an in- 
formed and enlightened people ; their good sense must certainly very soon 
discover them. 

Mr. Dane stated, that eleven States have substantially complied with 
the recommendation of Congress, of the 30th of April 1784, for vesting 
certain commercial powers in that body, and that the other two, New- 
Hampshire and North-Carolina, have failed only by going too far ; that 
their acts manifest such a disposition to vest those powers in Congress, 
that their compliance may be soon expected. The Hon. Gentleman ob- 
served, that this system did not embrace all the powers necessary for 
making commercial regulations in all cases; that it contained but one of 
the two great principles on which trade is extensively regulated, that of 
laying prohibitions, but not that of taxing or subjecting trade to duties ; 
however, that in the present state of our trade and commerce, he conceived 
that the full adoption of this recommendation would enable Congress to 
make many regulations beneficial to the United States, and probably most 
of those that it may be wise at present to adopt. 

That all the States, except New-Hampshire and Rhode Island, had fully 
adopted the proposed alteration of the 8th article of the Confederation 
for quotaing the States, according to their numbers of inhabitants, etc. 

The Hon. Gentleman then observed, that the late arrangements made 
by Congress, for the settlement of the State accounts, for the discontinu- 



502 Continental Congress 

ance of the Commissioners in the several States, after the first of April 
next, and for instituting a board of three Commissioners, to sit when 
necessary, with powers, when written vouche[r]s cannot be obtained, 
to admit circumstantial evidence, and to report to Congress a state of 
claims not founded on the acts of that body, were after much attention 
conceived to be the best, under all circumstances. He observed, that 
those who had not paid particular attention to the circumstances of the 
late war in the several parts of the Union, and to the state of the public 
accounts, can have but very imperfect ideas of them : that large claims 
are made by Virginia and other States, the regular evidence to support 
which is said to be unavoidably lost, and several States also make very 
extensive claims not founded on the acts of Congress, the propriety of 
allowing which must be determined principally by taking a comprehensive 
view of the whole; that much care and attention is necessary to prevent 
the debt of the Union, from being improperly augmented. As the busi- 
ness of this board ought to be expedited, it is highly important that the 
States having such claims, should speedily state and arrange them, and 
their evidence to support them ; many of which claims, particularly those 
of this State, are not properly arranged and prepared for examination. 

As to the establishment of a mint, the Gentleman observed, that no 
great pecuniary advantages could be expected from it at present, but he 
conceived the measure of considerable importance, as it tends to give us 
a national feature, to render our circulating medium more pure, and 
gradually to increase it; that much skill and attention is required in assay- 
ing the materials, mixing in the alloy, and in providing against counter- 
feiting the coins of the States or Union; that it may be doubtful whether 
the States will have full confidence in the coins struck by each other, and 
when they are struck at several mints in the Union, the probability being, 
that more base money may get into circulation. For these considerations, 
and to save expence, it is to be wished that the coinage of money, at the 
federal mint, may be made as extensive as conveniently may be. 

The Hon. Gentleman took notice that another subject of immediate 
concern, was now before Congress: the laws of several States, said to 
be in violation of the treaty with Great-Britain. On these he could only 
observe, that it is the general opinion of those who have attended care- 
fully to the subject, that a treaty formed by Congress under the powers 
of the confederation is a part of the law of the land, is a solemn compact 
made by the highest and constitutional authority in the United States, 
with a foreign power, and it is therefore a law of superior obligat 
and cannot be controuled by any act of Congress or of any State ; that 
all questions arising on treaties not adjusted by the contracting parties, 
ought clearly to be decided by the Judicial Courts of the respective coun- 
tries, the constitutional bodies for this purpose; that any State being 
but a part of our nation, and by the forms of our government unknown to 
foreign powers in national transactions, cannot pass any law which can 
operate to explain or restrict the force of a treaty. Perhaps it is the duty 
of Judges and Jurors to consider such laws repugnant to treaties, as void ; 



November, 1786 503 

but to aid their resolution, if he migh[t] use the expression, it may be 
proper for Congress and the States to declare that such is the force of 
treaties, and to prevent like difficulties in future. 

The Gentleman mentioned, that the affairs of the Western territory, 
and of the Indians, had long employed the attention of Congress, and more 
particularly of late; that Congress is intrusted with the disposition and 
governing of an extensive and valuable tract of country, which has been 
justly considered as a fund capable of going far towards discharging the 
federal domestic debt, on which, and on the frontiers of the Middle and 
Southern States, are about sixty tribes of Indians, who probably muster 
about ten thousand warriors ; that it has been the policy of Congress, to 
keep peace with these tribes ; that Commissioners have been sent out from 
time to time to treat with them, who have assigned them lands to live and 
hunt on, and paid them for their other lands ; and that treaties have lately 
been formed with most of the nations, of importance to the United States, 
and at a very great expence ; Congress having formed several treaties, and 
made many regulations, for the disposing and governing of that country 
in the last year, begun the surveys of those lands they had purchased of 
the Indians; and then conceived that the 700 troops at that time called 
for, would be sufficient to protect the frontiers and secure the federal 
lands, against those tribes which had not formed treaties ; that it was soon . 
found that the Indians are not to be depended on, the surveys were inter- 
rupted by them, and the benefits expected from those surveys that year, 
were quite lost to the Union, and a considerable expence incurred ; that 
during the last winter and spring, treaties being further formed and more 
of those 700 troops brought into service and ordered to protect the sur- 
veys, it was reasonably hoped that the Surveyors, the present year, would 
be able to prosecute their business without interruption. Early in the sum- 
mer past, information was received of the hostile disposition of several of 
the tribes, and measures were then brought forward to augment the troops 
of the United States, to the numbers now called for; but it was then 
thought by the Delegates of this State, and of some of the other States, 
that there was not sufficient evidence of a general hostile disposition in those 
nations ; but the information from that country since, has fully evinced the 
hostile intentions, of several tribes, and their determinations to prevent the 
surveys of these lands. The Indians express a general uneasiness at our 
progress Westward, and much pains seems to be taken by some traders 
among them, to promote this uneasiness ; that in this situation of affairs, 
the hostile Indians must be brought to terms, or the disposition of those 
federal lands suspended. Considering the extensive frontiers and surveys 
to be protected, and lines of post necessary to be established, through an 
extensive tract of country, against many hostile tribes of troublesome 
enemies, the troops called for, cannot be more than adequate to these 
purposes ; and on the other hand, it is to be hoped, that under their pro- 
tection, the surveys of that country, may be carried on, and the Indians 
again reduced by them, to peace and order. Fort-Pitt will probably be the 
place of rendezvous for these troops, and it is to be ardently wished, that 
they may take their respective positions, and to be ready to cover the sur- 



504 Continental Congress 

veys, early in the ensuing season, and to act against such tribes as they 
may be directed. 

Mr. Dane observed, that there was another subject under consideration, 
about which different opinions are adopted; he meant the report made by 
the gentlemen who met at Annapolis, in Convention. That the gentle- 
men in their report had made use of very general and indefinite expres- 
sions, that seem, however, to suggest the propriety of submitting the fed- 
eral system of government in general to a revision, or to be changed : 
That it does not fully appear whether they had it in contemplation to do 
away the present system, and to adopt another on different principles, and 
with different features, or to preserve the principles and great out-lines of 
the present, and to make some alterations in it, to give it more strength 
and energy. If the former is intended, may it not be asked, if the public 
mind is prepared for it? If the latter, will it not be best to consider the 
progress already made in amending the present system? That the amend- 
ments proposed by the recommendations of the 18th of April, 1783, and 
30th of April, 1784, will, when obtained, remedy some of its most impor- 
tant defects; and as the States have proceeded so far in adopting them, it 
must be highly imprudent to submit now to examination, in a different 
form, objects contained in those amendments, and thereby effectually pre- 
vent any further progress in compleating these alterations, now almost 
obtained. Mr. Dane observed, that there are no doubt other alterations 
that time and experience will point out to be necessary : That it must be 
soon well understood, that there is a want of energy to constrain each 
part of the Union reasonably to bear its due proportion of the common 
burthens ; and to hold men in public trust in a proper state of responsibility, 
a federal judiciary may be found to be expedient for several purposes, 
the means of keeping up a punctual representation, etc. — But that a ques- 
tion arises as to the best mode of obtaining these alterations ; whether by 
the means of a Convention, or by the constitutional mode pointed out in 
the 13th article of the Confederation. In favour of a Convention it is 
said, that the States will probably place more confidence in their doings, 
and that the alterations there may be better adjusted, than in Congress. 
It is asked, what reason there can be for supposing this, as several of the 
States consider such a Convention highly inexpedient, and some States 
unconstitutional, and not all the States are agreed even in the propriety of 
a commercial Convention ? That there is not sufficient reason to conclude, 
from the conduct of the States relative to alterations already proposed 
(more interesting, perhaps, than any that may hereafter be proposed) that 
there is a want of confidence in those who recommend them; that the 
States may generally delegate the same men to the known constitutional 
assembly, that they may wish to send to a Convention ; and when proper, 
can direct those full delegations to attend two or three months, for the pur- 
pose of fully adjusting such alterations : That the first principles of gov- 
ernment are to be touched with care and attention. 

The Hon. Gentlemen further observed, that there was another subject, 
which, though not an object before Congress, exceedingly interested the 



November, ij86 505 

feelings and attention of all men, friends to the happiness of these States ; 
he alluded to the late commotions in this State. It was a matter that gave 
general alarm and anxiety, to see a State so suddenly shaken to its very 
centre, whose respectability has been acknowledged; whose constitution 
has been considered as excellent ; and whose exertions in the late war have 
been so great, and evidenced so much firmness in her laws and policy. 
All men, friends to the States, seem anxious to see the government again 
restored to its former firmness and order. That many things might be 
further observed on this subject, but he thought it his duty thus only to 
observe generally, — not being properly among those objects respecting 
which he was called upon to make communications to the Hon. House. 2 

544. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

November nth, 1786. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
a State of the Representation in Congress for the Month of October, and 
two copies of the continuation of the Journal from the 20th September to 
the end of the federal Year. 

I beg leave to observe that notwithstanding the present critical situa- 
tion of public affairs, there are not yet a sufficient number of States 
represented to proceed to business, I hope therefore your Excellency will 
be pleased to urge the attendance of the delegates for your State as speedily 
as possible agreeable to the desire of the late Congress communicated in 
my letter of the 4th. 2 

545. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

Nov. nth, 86, N. York. 
My dear General, 

I have your letter of the 31st octr. besides the pleasure we all feel in 
knowing the health of Mount Vernon I am delighted and edified by your 
sentiments. This moment Genl. Knox and Mr. King left me having 
perused the part of your let 'r, which respects the Insurgents — They ex- 
pressed the highest satisfaction in finding that your retirement had not 
abated your affectionate zeal for the prosperity of every part of the empire. 2 

2 Cf. the address of Rufus King, Oct. II, no. 516, ante. 
[544] x N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers ; Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. 
MSS. (to Delaware) ; ibid., Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 107. 

2 See no. 537, ante ; cf. nos. 548, 559, 560, post. 
[545] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See no. 523, ante. In a letter to Washington Oct. 23 (Drake, Life and Corre- 
spondence of Henry Knox, p. 91) Knox set forth candidly and at some length his im- 
pressions of the insurrectionary movement in Massachusetts. See Washington's comments 
in a letter to Madison Nov. 5 (Writings, ed. Sparks, IX. 206). Madison replied Nov. 9, 
" The intelligence from Genl. Knox is gloomy indeed, but is less so than the colours in 
which I had it thro' another channel " (ibid., p. 208 n., and Madison's Writings, II. 283). 
Knox also wrote to Stephen Higginson Oct. 22 respecting the measures that had been 
taken. Higginson's reply, Nov. 12, is in Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, I. 741. 



506 Continental Congress 

Every day brings new information of the designs and preparations of 
the Malcontents — they are training their people, have officered some con- 
siderable bodys and are forming connexions with their neighboring states 
and the Vermontese. A convention has assembled to devise ways and 
means of supporting their military arrangements, and of doing such other 
things as may be necessary for the prosecution of their intentions. We 
have authentic information that they contemplate a re-union with G. 
Britain, and it is not improbable but that the convention now sitting will 
formally make propositions of this nature to Lord Dorchester (Sir Guy 
Carleton) who is arrived at Quebec with plenipotentiary powers as Gov- 
ernor General of British America, they also declare their willingness to 
establish an imperial government in the U. States and I beleive could they 
be indulged with their favorite wish abolition of debts they would chear- 
fully enter into the plan of a foederal government assimilating the Brit- 
ish government. In some matters these people certainly think right, altho 
they act wrong. A continuance of our present feeble political form is preg- 
nant with daily evils and may drive us at last to a change — then it would be 
wise that this necessary alteration should be effected in peace and governed 
by reason, not left to passion and accident. If the insurgents would sub- 
mit to government, and by constitutional exertions induce their state to 
commence this change, they woud benefit themselves their country and 
the Union. Good management might perhaps produce this wholesome 
conduct, but it is too probable that desperate and intriguing men may 
purpose private objects only. 

I enclose you a piece signed Belisarius. He is said to be Baron Steuben — 
this excites universal wonder. 8 

I hope to see you and your lady next month. Our united love and 
respects to Mount Vernon. Adieu 

with most affectionate regard your h st. 

H. Lee Junr. 

546. John Kean to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

Sir, 

I should have sooner done myself the honor of answering your note 
of the 8th instant, but having no such accurate knowledge of the subject, 
as I wished to communicate to you I thought to have obtained some infor- 
mation from my Colleagues. I did not receive all their answers until this 
morning — but find them wholly unacquainted — so I must give you what I 

See also his letter to Knox Nov. 25 (ibid., p. 742) and no. 525, note 3, ante. In the letter 
of Nov. 12 Higginson remarks : " The present moment is very favorable to the forming 
further and necessary Arrangements, for increasing the dignity and energy of Govern- 
ment, what has been done, must be used as a Stock upon which the best Fruits are to be 
ingrafted, the public mind is now in a fit State, and will shortly I think In-come more so, 
to come forward with a System competent to the great purpose of all Civil Arrangements, 
that of promoting and securing the happiness of Society." See further Knox to Higginson 
Jan. 28, 1787, in Drake, Life and Correspondence of Henry Knox, p. 93. 
8 See nos. 286 (note 2), 539 (note 4), ante, 754, 856, 923, post. 
[546] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78., vol. XIII., f. 629; Dipt. Corr 
U. S. A., 1783-1789. III. 347. 



November, 1786 507 

have heard — observing that it has been gathered from transient conversa- 
tion in Carolina and not from any examination of authentic papers. 

The frigate South Carolina for whose use the compensation is now 
required of the Court of Spain, was the property of the Prince De Luxem- 
bourg, she was chartered by Mr. Gillon in behalf of the State of South 
Carolina. The Prince was to receive as her hire a certain proportion of 
all the prizes she should take. 

Upon this it is that I found my idea that the Prince is entitled to a 
share of whatever money may be received of the court of Spain as a 
compensation for the use of this vessel. 

What the proportion is I cannot say absolutely — but think it is twenty 
four p'r Ct. 

If there is a necessity for accurate information on the head, it can be 
obtained from the State of South Carolina and if you think it proper the 
Delegates will write for it. 2 

Novr. nth, 1786. 

547. Roger Alden to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

New York Novr. 12th, 1786. 
Hon'd Sir, 

The Secretary of Congress has wrote two letters to the Executives of 
the several States to urge the attendance of the Delegates, the first in 
obedience to the commands of the late Congress, the other when he 
transmitted the representation for the month of Octr. 2 

The Delegates from Massachusetts have reed, their credentials, and 
that the State may be represented, Mr. Gorham intends to remain in 
town until the arrival of some other Gentleman. 3 New York is repre- 
sented, the credentials from N Jersey were reed. Yesterday — Mr. Cad- 
wallader, Mr. Abraham Clark, and Mr. James Scheurman are appointed ; 
but none of the Gentlemen have yet come forward. 4 Mr. Bayard is not 

2 See no. 538, ante. In his letter of Nov. 8 Jay asked to be informed " on what 
ground and in what proportion, the Prince of Luxemburgh is interested in the compen- 
sation expected from the Court of Madrid for the use of the South Carolina frigate ". See 
further Jay to Carmichael Nov. 24, Dec. I, 1786, Jan. 4, May 14, 1787, and Carmichael to 
Jay Aug. 19, 1787 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 322, 323, 347, 355, 361) ; also 
Jay to Jefferson Dec. 1, 13, 1786 {ibid., I. 808), and Jefferson to Jay Feb. I, 1787 {ibid., 
II. 26). 

[547] * Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, no. 120. 

2 Nos. 537, 544, ante. See also no. 560, post. Roger Alden, the writer of this 
letter, was assistant secretary of Congress, and was the son-in-law of William Samuel 
Johnson. 

3 See no. 549, post. Gorham's credentials are in the Journals under Nov. 6, 
but King's are not. 

4 The credentials do not appear in the Journals ; in fact there is no Journal record 
for Nov. 11. Josiah Hornblower, although not re-elected, was entitled to continue in his 
seat for at least one day of the new session; for the New Jersey election of 1785 specified 
"until the seventh day of November", 1786 {Journals, Nov. 23, 1785). He is recorded as 
in attendance Nov. 6 and his account for attendance (see below) specifies attendance only 
through Nov. 6. Abraham Clark attended Nov. 20, and James Schureman Nov. 24 (see 
no- 553, post). Lambert Cadwalader wrote from Trenton Nov. 17 to George Mitchell of 
Daggsbury on business matters, but he made no reference to Congress (original at one 
time in possession of C. F. Libbie and Company of Boston; copy in possession of the 
Carnegie Institution). He did not attend until Jan. 17, 1787. 

39 



508 Continental Congress 

appointed, no information when the Delegates from Pensylvania may be 
expected 8 — nor from Delaware. Maryland is represented, the Delegates 
from Virginia have not reed, their credentials. 8 Mr. Nash and Mr. Blount 
from North Carolina — the former is very ill, and has not appeared in 
Congress. 7 S. Carolina is represented, from Georgia Mr. Few. from this 
state of facts you can best judge whether your attendance is necessary 
or not. if the Virginia Delegates receive their credentials this week, six 
States will be present, but no one thinks that Mr. Nash will be able to attend 
but at the risk of his life. I believe there is no doubt of his expecting the 
Presidency. 8 perhaps his ambition may overbalance his prudence and the 
advice of his physician, but was I to give my opinion, I should say that 
Congress had already experienced the inconvenience of an Invalid." 

Two of the Judges of the Court of Appeals are in town — Mr. Griffin is 
not arrived — nor any letters from him. I enclose a letter from the board 
of treasury — 13 were sent to the office to be delivered to the Delegates of 
the several States. 10 .... 

548. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New york November 16th, 1786. 
Sir, 

As yet there have not appeared a sufficient Number of Members to 
form a Congress. 

I arrived here on the 5th Instant and did myself the honor to address 
a letter to you on the 6th. I sent it by a Water Conveyance and hope it 
will be to hand before this. 2 Ever Since the above-mentioned Time my 
Colleague Mr. Nash has been so much indisposed as to be confined to his 
bed at some Times better and again worse, today he appears to be as ill as 
at any other Time and talk's much of returning to Carolina with Capt. 
Tinker 8 who will probably leave this in eight or ten days. I have been 
thus particular respecting Mr. Nash to show the Necessity there is for 
some other Gentleman of the Delegation to come on and if the State means 

5 The Pennsylvania credentials, read Nov. 6, are in the Journals of that day. 
Samuel Meredith and William Bingham attended Nov. 20, producing certificates of elec- 
tion. See no. 554, post. 

8 Grayson and Carrington attended Nov. 20, but the Virginia credentials are not 
recorded. The election was on Nov. 7, and the delegates chosen were, besides Grayson 
and Carrington, Richard Henry Lee, Madison, and Joseph Jones. See nos. 551, 552, 563, 
post. 

7 See no. 541, ante, and nos. 548, 557, 559, post. 

8 Cf. nos. 551, 552, post. Concerning the attendance of the Connecticut delegates 
(Mitchell and Johnson) see nos. 550, 555, post. 

9 The allusion is probably to John Hancock, for whom the presidential chair 
had been reserved for several months. See nos. 291, 297, 330, 348. 414, ante. 

10 The letter from the board of treasury was doubtless the circular letter of Nov. 13. 
See no. 542, note 5, ati/<\ 
[548] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 783. 
* See nos. 541, 547, ante. 

8 Edward Rutledge, who had recently been in New York, wrote to Jay Nov. 1 -•. 
"After a disagreeable passage and a variety of weather Tinker has at last safely landed 
us in Charleston" (Correspondence of Jay, III. 216). See no. 559, post; also Rutledge 
to Jay Jan. 16, 1787 (ibid., p. 229). 



November, 1786 509 

to be represented by three, two ought to come on. 4 The Insurgents in 
Massachusetts seem inflexibly determined not to give up their arms only 
to a superior force and a Gentleman 5 lately from that State high in Office 
and of the best Information has given it as his decided Opinion that much 
blood will be shed before they will submit to Government. 6 

549. Rufus King to Nathan Dane. 1 

New York 22 Nov. 86. 
D'r Sir, 

Mr. Gorham left us on Monday, I expect to leave this place for Hart- 
ford on Friday : 2 No addition of Delegates since I wrote you last. I 
wrote a note to each of the Printers in this City and requested that they 
would not insert any thing in their papers relative to your communication 
with the Legislature, as the accounts were very erroneous, nothing has 
been or will be published. 3 

I have nothing to add except that we have a copy of the Treaty of Amity 
and Commerce concluded between Morocco and the U S. its duration is 
Fifty years. 4 

550. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 . 

Wethersfield Novr. 22d., 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Enclosed you have a Letter from Govr. Huntington, the Contents I 
can very easily conjecture, by a similar one I have this Evening reed, 
enclosing your's. 

4 See nos. 557, 559, 560, post. 

5 The allusion is probably to General Knox. See nos. 523, 545, ante. 

6 See nos. 539, 545, ante, 55 1, 552, 557"56o, 575, past. 

[549] 1 Beverly Hist. Soc, Dane MSS. (addressed, "Hon. Nathan Dane Beverly"). 

2 See no. 547, ante, and nos. 551, 552, 554, 559, 603, post. King was going to Hart- 
ford as one of the agents of Massachusetts to meet the New York agents for the purpose 
of effecting a settlement of the controversy between the two states without recourse to 
the federal court (see nos. 271, 300, 315, 460, ante). This was in pursuance of acts of each 
of the states. On Sept. 7 the Massachusetts agents had written to the New York agents 
proposing either Newport, Hartford, or New Haven as the place of meeting, and the 
New York agents had chosen Hartford as the place and Nov. 6 as the date for the con- 
ference (letter dated Sept. 22, 1786, signed by James Duane, John Haring, Melancton 
Smith, and Egbert Benson, "A Majority of the Agents for New Y or k". an d addressed 
to Robert Yates and John Lansing, jr., their colleagues; Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., 
M. O. C.). Nevertheless, on Sept. 22 (the same day on which the letter of the New York 
agents was written) the agents of the two states notified Congress that they had agreed 
on William Hooper of North Carolina as a member of the federal court, to take the place 
of James Monroe, who had resigned the appointment. By subsequent arrangement the 
meeting of the agents took place on Nov. 30. The report of their agreement dated 
Dec. 16, 1786, is in the Journals, Oct. 8, 1787. 

3 The reference is to Dane's address to the Massachusetts legislature Nov. 9. See 
no. 543, ante. 

4 See no. 540, note 3, ante. Carmichael says in his letter to Jay Aug. 14 (Dip!. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 317) that he is transmitting a copy of the treaty; yet 
Jay remarks in his reply, Nov. 24 {ibid., III. 322), "We have not, as yet, received the 
Morocco treaty ". He means doubtless the signed treaty, which was not, in fact, confirmed 
by the signatures of Jefferson and Adams until Jan. 1 and 25, 1787. See no. 560. post. The 
treaty is in Malloy, Treaties, etc. (61 Cong., 2 sess., Senate Doc. no. 357, Government 
Printing Office, 1910). I. 1206-1212. 

[550] x Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, No. 121. 



510 Continental Congress 

I have this week consulted the Treasurer who informs, he shall be 
ready in a few Days to furnish us with f ioo, or 125 . . o, each, by draw- 
ing an Order in favor of Col. Wadsworth, you can be supplied with that 
Sum from Mr. Shalor; or if it suits better you can receive the money of 
Mr. Lawrance. 2 .... 

Since I saw you at X'w Haven, untill last Evening I have been at the 
County Court and made no preparation for a journey to N'w York, tis 
almost impossible for me to set out under two or three Weeks ; unless I 
see old Benje. Stiles before I decamp, he will pester you with his Com- 
plaints, so tis in mercy to you I stay. I will come on, as soon as possible. It 
gives me sensible pain, to reflect upon the Opinion members from other 
States will entertain of our Absence while six States only are represented. 

We must by assiduity in Business make amends for our Neglect. 

551. William Grayson to James Monroe. 1 

Dear Sir, 

I have received your favors, for which I am very much obliged to you : 
I am sorry to inform you I have continued ill ever since you left me in 
Philada. and I cannot say I am much better at this time : I look forward 
to a regular fit of the gout as an event greatly to be wished for. 

We have no news here ; Congress have not yet elected a President owing 
to their being too few States on the floor: Mr. Nash of N. Carolina, 
who lies dangerously ill, is talked of generally, and nothing but his death 
or extreme ill health will, I am persuaded, prevent his election. 2 

Colo. Lee has heard of his being left out of the delegation and is far 
from being pleased at the circumstance: 8 I own I am surprised at R. H. 
Lee's being continued when he did not serve a day last year : * had Colo. 
Lee been continued instead of him, all would have been right : he is pre- 
paring to return to Virginia : I wish that R. H. Lee may resign, and he 
be elected in his room 

I wish to know when Mr. Jones 8 and Maddison mean to come forward : 
it will be necessary for one to set out soon, as my attendance in Congress 
will be extremely precarious; of course the State will in all probability be 
often unrepresented untill one of them appears 

The Massachusets delegation have been much more friendly I have 
understood since the late insurrection in their State: they look upon the 
foederal assistance as a matter of the greatest importance, of course they 
wish for a continuance of the Confederation : their General Court is now 

2 See no. 555, post. An omitted passage relates to the Massachusetts trouble. 
[551] * Library of Congress, Monroe Papers. 

2 See nos. 541, 547. 548, ante, 552, 553, 557, post. 

8 Col. Henry Lee. See Mgdison to Lee Nov. 9, 23, in Writings, II. 284, 286; also 
Lee to Madison Dec. 20 (ibid., p. 284 n.), and no. 563, post. The resignation of Joseph 
Jon.es opened the way for Lee's re-election. See note 5, below. 

* He means of course the last Congressional year, November, 1785, to November, 
1786. 

5 Jones resigned Nov. 27 (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers), and Col. Henry Lee 
was chosen in his stead (Dec. 1). 



November, 1786 511 

a sitting, but I believe are fearful of taking any vigorous steps against 
the insurgents. 6 

Mr. King sets out from this next week to meet the N. York and the 
other of the Massachusets comm'rs to effect a compromise respecting the 
latter agt. the former : it seems they have got unlimited powers on both 
sides. 7 

N York Novr. 22nd, 1786. 

N. B. the Spanish treaty is at fault Mr. Rendon is going to Spain 
immed'y — his business unknown: It is sd. that Spain and G. B. have 
concluded a commercial treaty. 8 

552. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

N. York 22nd Nov. 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

Your kind favor has come to hand, and since that I have heard of 
my being again appointed in the delegation of our State 

We have little news here : 2 There is no Congress yet : of course no 
President elected. Mr. Nash of N : Carolina is talked of he at present 
lies dangerously ill at this place. 

The affair of the Missisippi hangs at present in suspence : I rather think 
nothing has been done in it: the M. Bay delegation have been more on 
the conciliatory plan, since the late insurrections in that State: They I 
believe depend greatly on the foederal aid, of course wish not only for 
a continuance of the confederation, but that it may be made more adequate 
to the purposes of government. 

I am sorry to inform you, that it is the belief of people here well 
informed that this insurrection threatens the most serious consequences, 
and that the objects are more extensive than the mere stopping the Courts 
of justice : it is supposed that Vermont is leagued with them, and that 
they are secretly supported by emissaries of a certain nation; as to this 
latter conjecture, I have heard no satisfactory proof. 

Before I came to this place Congress passed a Vote for augmenting 
the troops : the object you may easily comprehend : 3 

I hope that you and Mr. Jones will come forward soon ; my health will 
not permit a constant attendance and the idea of the State's being un- 
represented is extremely mortifying to me, indeed if I do not shortly get 
better it will be my desire to return home : I heartily wish I had went with 
you and Mr. Monro. 

6 Cf. no. 552, post. 

7 See no. 549, ante. 

8 See Carmichael's letters of July 15 and Aug. 14, mentioned under no. 540, note 3, 
ante. Cf. no. 552, post. 

[552] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 39 
(copy of part). 

2 Most of the matters referred to in this letter are also touched upon in the letter 
to Monroe, no. 551, ante. 

3 See no. 542, ante. 



512 Continental Congress 

The Vote of the Assembly on the affair of paper money does them 
the highest honor and augurs well of the session. 

[P. S.] It is said a commercial treaty is nearly formed between Spain 
and Great Brittain 



553. Abraham Clark to James Madison. 1 

New York Xovr. 23d, 1786. 
Dear Sir, 

You desired me to inform you of the sentiments of the Legislature of 
New Jersey respecting the Western Country : this I have waited some time- 
to do with Certainty but am not able to do it fully. I am not in the 
Legislature and much a Stranger to their present System of Politicks, but 
as yet believe they are generally of the same Sentiments with my self, 
which you are fully Acquainted with so far as relates to the Mississipi. 1 
every day expect Instructions which I am told will be to my Wishes on 
that head. 

After seeing you in Philada. I had an interview with some of the prin- 
cipal members of the Assembly of Pennsa. who appeared no ways friendly 
to the late Resolution of Congress and purposed at the meeting of the 
present Assembly to attempt obtaining instructions, to their Delegates on 
that head; there are two members just Arrived from Philada. Messrs. 
Meredith and Bingham ; the present members in their delegation are the 
same as last year except Mr. Bingham in the place of Colo. Bayard whose 
time of service had expired, this looks as if their Conduct the last year 
met with Approbation. 2 

With great satisfaction I saw your name in the Delegation from 
Virginia, and till within a few minutes expected to see you here in a 
short time, till Colo. Grayson informed me he thought you would not 
come soon. 

There are now Seven States in Town tho' Six only can attend, as Mr 
Nash from N. Carolina is confined by Sickness. 

P. S. Mr. Schurman is here with me. 

[553] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 In his letter of Sept. 12 (no. 499, ante ) Monroe requested that Madison talk 
with Qark concerning the problems pertaining to the western country, with a view to doing 
a bit of missionary work in behalf of the Mississippi question. This letter of Clark is 
evidently the result of such an interview. In a letter to Washington Dec. 7 Madison re- 
marked, " I have a letter from Col. Grayson of late date which tells me that nothing 
further has been done in Congress [on the Mississippi question], and one from Mr. A. 
Clarke of New Jersey, which informs me that he expected every day, instructions from 
his Legislature for reversing the vote given by the Delegates of that State in favor of the 
project" {Writings, II. 205). See also Cadwalader to Monroe Aug. 20, and Monroe to 
Madison Sept. 3 and Oct. 7 (nos. 478, 496, 512. ante). Cf. nos. 554, 562, post. 



November, 1/86 513 

554. Samuel Meredith to Thomas FitzSimons. 1 

Dear Sir, 

.... You will no doubt find it very difficult to raise funds to support 
the present engagements; but if you should agree to the Impost for the 
Use of Congress it will certainly much encrease; The Congress look up 
to our State with much Anxiety dreading a refusal as the forerunner of 
Anarchy and confusion, they seem to think that New York will not chuse 
to refuse after the Acceptance of Pennsylvania, how that point may be 
appears ( from some conversation I have had with the Gentlemen of New 
York) to be doubtful, tho I hardly think they would chuse to stand alone. 2 

We attend daily at the Room with but little prospect of making a 
Congress under two or three Weeks, there are at present in Town seven 
states but Governor Nash is expected to live but a few days, 3 and the 
New York and Massachusets Delegates leave town tomorrow for Hart- 
ford in expectation of settling the dispute between their states, without 
applying to the Federal Aid which is extreemly tedious and expensive. 4 .... 

I mentioned some days past to Mr. King my Idea of the Back Lands, 
and the little chance of even the Expences being defrayed by them, which 
he seemed to agree in, and said it am'td to £100,000 Dollars [sic] specie; 
it would prove a happiness to all the settled parts of the Country if the 
Ohio was to be the boundary for a Number of Years, as well as be a means 
of quieting the Indians and Spaniard[s].° 

The Troops raising to the Northward will not in all probability move 
much farther south. I wrote the above late at Night and meant in the 
Morn'g to have made some alterations but I found that If I did not 
send as it is you would have no Letter. Please to make my Comp'ts to 
Mrs. Fitzsimons and all Friends and beleive me to be 

D'r S'r Yours sincerly 

Sam'l Meredith 6 

[P. S.] 

Sunday Morn'g Novem'r 26, 1786. 

[554] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See nos. 449, 452, 458, 459, 466, 469, 473, 477, 485, 488, 489, ante. Cf. no. 575, 
Post. 

3 See nos. 541, 547, 548, 551, 552, 553, ante, 557, 576, post. 

4 See nos. 547, 549, 551, 552, ante. General Knox wrote to Elbridge Gerry Nov. 26: 
" Mr. King has gone to Hartford so that there is not now, at this place, a single member 
of Congress from New England. Nor are there a sufficient number of members from 
the respective states to form a Congress but it is expected there will be soon" (Hist. Soc. 
of Pa., Conarroe Coll., II. 31). Although Meredith's letter is dated Nov. 26, he states 
in the last paragraph that it was mainly written Saturday night, the 25th ; hence he speaks 
of the departure of the agents as " tomorrow ". King says however in his letter of 
Nov. 22 that he planned to leave New York on Friday, the 24th. The omitted passage re- 
lates to Luzerne County, Pa. See Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. passim. 

5 Cf. nos. 496, 499, 512, 553, ante. 

6 Accompanying this letter and bearing the same date is a note to FitzSimons, con- 
cerning a matter of private business. 



514 Continental Congress 

555. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of Connects 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Stratford 28th Xovr. 1786. 
S'r, 

I have the Honor of yr. Excell'ys favour of the 20th Inst., and am 
much obliged by your Attentions. Give me leave to Congratulate yr. 
Excell'y upon the very uncommon success you have had in Financering. 
Having been at Danbury to meet Sher : Abel, and look'd out to no pur- 
pose, on every side in this Quarter for Money; I began to despair of 
seeing New York, at least for many Weeks yet to come. Yr. Excell'ys 
favour has dissipated every present difficulty, and I have in consequence, 
as I have been ready this fortnight, written to the Hon'e Mr. Mitchell 
requesting him to come on as soon as possible with the Credentials of our 
Appointment, or if he sho'd be necessarily detain'd, to forward them to 
me, and upon his or their arrival shall set out immediately. 2 I will cer- 
tainly, and with pleasure, do myself the Honor to communicate to yr. 
Excell'y whatever occurs at Congress that I can imagine Merits yr. 
Excell'ys Attention, and shall be happy and grateful for every Instruction 
Direction or Communication which yr. Exell'y shall please to favour me 
with. 

P. S. I beg yr. Excel'y to direct 2 or 3 copies of the Acts of the two last 
sessions of Assembly to be forwarded us And pardon my enclosing for 
greater safety a Letter covering a Note. 

556. Charles Thomson to the Reverend John Ettwein. 1 

I was in hopes that Mr. W 2 wd. have taken Bethlehem in his way, but 
I find by your letter of the 4 Novr. that both my letters were sent to you 
from Philadelphia 

It gives me great pain to hear that the Indian Congregation are likely 
to suffer for want of provisions. Upon receiving your letter I called on 
the Secretary at war who informed me that immediately after the passing 
of the resolution of which I sent you a copy in a former letter, he dis- 
patched orders to Col. Harmar to deliver to them on their application the 
500 bushels of Corn and other articles mentioned in the resolution. It 
might be well if this information could be communicated to them that 
they might send and receive this supply. But it is to be presumed that 
in case of want they will apply either to Col Harmar or the Superint aidant 
or his deputy who I understand resides at Pittsburgh. 8 I hope there is 
no foundation for the reports of an intention to commit another Mas- 
sacre. I am sorry the spirits of the frontier inhabitants are so imbittered 
agst. the Indian Nations and wish with all my heart this bitterness could 

[555] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See no. 550, ante. 
[556] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 James White. See nos. 513, 521, ante. 

• " Fort Pitt " was first written. 



December, 1786 515 

be removed. I presume the Indian congregation will continue this winter 
at or near Cayaoga. But in case they should think proper to remove their 
settlements on Muskingum, I am persuaded they may rely on Col Harmar's 
giving them all the protection in his power as he has received orders to 
this effect. 4 With affectionate remembrance to Baron de Watteville and 
his lady and sincere esteem for all the brethren 
I am Rev'd and dear S'r 

Your friend and humble Sert. 
New York 4 Deer. 1786. C T 

557. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Newyork December 7th, 1786." 
Sir, 

On Saturday the 2d Instant departed this life at 4. O' Clock in the after- 
noon my worthy Collegue Mr. Abner Nash, his death is here much 
lamented and I sincerely condole with his friends and Country the loss of 
so valuable a Member. 

4 See the Journals, Aug. 24 ; also no. 486, note 2, ante. 
[557] x N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 793. 

2 On Dec. 7 Josiah Hornblower of New Jersey rendered an account for his ser- 
vices in Congress. Following is the statement with its sundry endorsements (Hist. Soc. of 
Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.) : 

" The State of New Jersey to Josiah Hornblower Dr. 

To his attendance in Congress from 6th of November 1785 to the 6th November 1786 

inclusive deducting 5 absent days, is 360 days at 30/ pr. day £540. 

Cr. 

By cash received at several times £249. 

Ballance due to J H 291. 

£540. 
State of New Jersey ss 
Essex 

on the 7th Deer. 1786. Personally appeared before me David Banks, Esqr. 
one of the justices of said County the Honourable Josiah Hornblower Esqr. 
who being duly sworn, Deposeth and Saith, that the above Account is in all 
Things just and true. 

Josiah Hornblower 
Sworn the Day and Year afd, Before me, 

David Banks 
[On back:] 

Sir, Please to pay the ballance of the within Acct. to my son William Hornblower, and 
take his receipt for the same 

Your obedient Servt. 
Josiah Hornblower 
To James Mott Esquire Treasurer 
Reed. Deer. 8 1786 of James Mott Tr. Two hundred and ninety one pounds being the 

Balance of the Within Account 
£291.0.0 

Will'm Hornblower 
[The following was crossed out :] 

Reed. December 8th 1786 of James Mott Tr. Two hundred and ninety one Dollars being 
the Balance of the within Account 

[Endorsed:] Josiah Hornblower £540.0.0 No. 102 Ex'd and All'd N Holmes, F. 
Davenport, R. Smith " 



516 Continental Congress 

The inclosed paper will show the Respect that has here been paid him 
in his Buryal. 8 

I am at present the only Delegate from North Carolina. As yet there's 
no Congress formed but there would have been one three weeks since if 
Mr. Nash could have attended. 4 

The Commotions in Massachusetts daily become more alarming. 



558. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York Deer. 8, 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

Your Excellencies favors of the 10th and 18th Ult. I have been hon- 
oured with, for Colo. Crocket I will endeavour to obtain whatever may 
appear to be due to him. 2 

.... how far the contagion of the Eastern disorders will spread, it 
may not be so proper to conjecture from the present quiet state of the other 
parts of the Empire, as from the experience of human Nature, and the 
constitutions of our Governments * 

It is said that a british influence is operating in this mischievous affair : 
in the progress of the thing this has happened, but it certainly originated 
in the genuine baseness of the people. 4 It is an undoubted truth that com- 
munications are held by Lord Dorchester with both the Vermonteers, and 
the insurgents of Massachusetts, and that a direct offer has been made to 
the latter, of the protection and Government of Great Britain, which they 
at present decline to accept, but hold in Petto, as a last resort in case future 
events may place them in desperate circumstances, they also declare that 
it is not their intention to touch the Continental Magazine, which is situ- 
ated at Springfield, in the midst of their country, unless driven to it to 
save their lives : they will, however, think the time arrived for this Step, 

8 On Monday, Dec. 4, ten members from six states were assembled, for the 
express purpose no doubt of receiving the announcement of Nash's death and designating 
a committee to superintend his funeral. An account of the funeral services is in the 
New York Daily Advertiser of Dec. 7. 

4 See no. 560, post. On receipt of the intelligence of Nash's death the North 
Carolina assembly instructed the governor to request Robert Hurt on and Nathaniel Macon 
to proceed immediately to New York to take their seats in Congress (N. C. State R*CS„ 
XVIII. 108, 337). Governor Caswell wrote to each of those gentlemen accordingly on 
Dec. 20 (ibid., p. 795)- 
[558] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 195. 

2 Presumably Lieut. Col. Joseph Crockett. 

• Carrington discourses at some length on the facts and implications of the Shays 
Rebellion. See nos. 509, 523. 539. 545. 548, 551, 55*. 557. ante, 559, 560, 575, post. 

4 In the legislative copy made for the governor, which is followed by the Calendar, 
the phrase here is, " originated from the people ". Similarly, at the close of this paragraph. 
" an opposition to baseness " was made to read, " an opposition to them ". There are other 
occasional variations of a minor sort. The copy, or extract, was transmitted by Governor 
Randolph to the speaker of the House of Delegates Dec. 29, with the following remark 

" I now do myself the honor of inclosing for the perusal of the general assembly the ex- 
tract, which I yesterday promised, from the confidential letter to me. Altho' I feel myself 
perfectly free to make this communication, I yet beg leave to request, that no copy may be 
taken for publication. Perhaps it may not be inexpedient to confine the knowledge of this 
extract to the members of the legislature." Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



December, 1786 517 

upon the happening of any conflict ; nor is there a prospect of an adequate 
protection from any quarter, here is felt the imbecility, the futility, the 
nothingness of the federal powers ; the U. S. have no troops, nor dare they 
call into action, what is called the only safe guard of a free government, 
the Militia of the State, it being composed of the very objects of the force ; 
neither can reliance be placed upon that of the neighbouring States; N. 
Hampshire has already shewn her kindred to the revolters ; Connecticut 
is not free from the infection; and, the Legislative Acts of Rhode Island, 
have discovered that an opposition to baseness, can be expected from no 
order of people there. 

These circumstances have alike forbid the attempt to remove the Maga- 
zine at an earlier period, as they now do that of protecting it. any step 
to this purpose would have hastened the Measures of the Malcontents ; they 
were compleatly masters of the surrounding country, and that they would 
not permit the execution of the business, was certain, the attempt there- 
fore must have been followed by the double consequence of cutting off all 
possibility of accommodation in the State, and blending the Union with her 
in a civil War. It was thought by Congress most politic to leave the Stores 
to the mercy of events ; to impress the insurgents with the distinction be- 
tween Continental and State property, and an idea that the United States 
had confidence in their fidelity and attachment to the Interests and govern r 
ment of the Union : 5 thus have Congress been compelled to substitute a 
passive policy, for that exercise of power which would ensure Stability and 
consequence to the federal, as well as State Governments. 

Upon the meeting of the Legislature of Massachusetts a verbal appli- 
cation was made, by her delegates in Congress, for the federal aid, this 
being the only practicable mode; a constitutional one, must have come 
from the Legislature, and could not have been obtained, with the essential 
forms and authorities, without becoming a subject of public knowledge, 
and Spurring the insurgents to immediate hostilities. Congress felt their 
embarrassments upon the occasion the mode of application was not a 
proper one, this difficulty was, however, reconciled upon the doctrine of 
necessity, but the inability of the federal Government to do any thing effec- 
tual, and, upon this consideration, the impolicy of provoking the hostile 
dispositions of the insurgents against the Union, from which the least 
inconvenience that could be calculated on, was their resort to the British 
Standard, necessarily came into view, upon the whole, it was thought best, 
to take only a preparatory Step, to be in readiness for whatever prudence, 
and necessity, might require in future, the Resolves of the 20th of Octo- 
ber were the result of this determination, the Western troubles are pre- 
fixed as the Cause, nor were they entirely out of view, but those of Massa- 
chusetts immediately operated. 6 .... 

This instance, terminate however it may, will doubtless teach the neces- 
sity of efficiency in government, and perhaps it would be best placed in the 
federal head, indeed if this cannot be got in the present form, some other 

5 See no. 509. ante. 

6 See the Journals, Oct. 20, 21 ; also nos. 524, 529, ante. 



518 Continental Congress 

ought immediately to be devised, a change of choice, will, probably, be 
one of wisdom, if it is left to accident, we cannot account for the result. 

That Great Britain will be in readiness to improve any advantage which 
our derangements may present for regaining her lost dominions, we are 
not to doubt, all her appointments to her Colonies, as well as Missions into 
these States, are calculated to this object. Lord Dorchester is known to 
be penetrating and judicious, and the people are in the habits of thinking 
favourably of him. A Mr. Smith, formerly of this City, is sent with his 
Lordship in the Character of Cheif Justice, he is a Man of talents, well 
acquainted with our Natural tempers and dispositions, and quitted the 
Country, in the firm persuasion that events like these which now prevail, 
would lead to a reunion of us with G. B. Mr. Temple has been here for 
some time, in the appointment of Consul General. 7 a Mr. Bond formerly 
of Phila. has lately arrived as Consul for the Middle States, 8 and it is said 
others are to be sent for the Eastern and Southern : and thus the scheme 
of communication will be compleat. it is the practice of nations to admit 
Consuls from all, with whom they have any Commerce, but I do not con- 
ceive there can be a right of admission, unless there is an existing com- 
mercial Treaty. Mr. T. was recognized before my time in Congress, and 
I am unacquainted with the principles upon which he was received. Mr. 
Bond has arrived since the adjournment and his reception remains to be 
contemplated. I trust that I shall never harbour unreasonable jealousies, 
but when we know that an invidious foe, is vested with the garb of peace 
and freindship, it behoves us to be Vigilant, especially when we are vul- 
nerable in so many ways. 

The communications contained in this letter I conceive it my duty to 
make to your Excellency, it being proper that you be fully informed upon 
so important a subject. I have endeavoured to found them upon the best 
information, and can pledge myself for the authenticity of them, how 
far it may be proper to suffer them to become public I leave to your own 
judgment, it may be well to communicate them confidentially to some of 
the members of the Legislature: it would however be a breach of the 
injunction of secrecy, and impolitic, to commit to public view the part that 
Congress is acting in the business. 

My honourable Colleague Mr. Grayson is much indisposed and has 
been so for some time, I wish to see some of the New Members come for- 
ward, there has not yet been a sufficiency of States to form a Congress 
nor do I see a prospect that there will shortly be one. 

T John Temple. See the Journals, Dec. 2, 1785; also nos. 289, 200, 293, 296, 300, 
313, 386, ante. The Chief Justice of Quebec and Lower Canada was the same William Smith 
who wrote the History of the Province of New York (London, 1757). 

8 Phineas Bond had arrived in Philadelphia in November, bearing commissions 
from the British government as consul for New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania. Dela- 
ware, and Maryland, and also as commissary for all commercial affairs within the United 
States, both commissions dated Apr. 5, 1786. On the same day that Carrington was 
writing, Jay transmitted the commissions to Congress, although it was not until Feb. .\. 
1787, that the communication finds record in the Journals. On Feb. 5 the matto 
referred back to the secretary for report, and he made his report Mar. 28 (Journals, 
Mar. 29; but see Madison's Notes of Debates Mar. 30, ibid., p. 732). See further nos. 
6.39. 641, 642, post. 



December, 1786 519 

559. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York Deer. 13th 1786. 
Sir, 

The enclosed paper contains the latest accounts that have reached this 
City from the convulsed State of Massachusetts. 2 .... No Congress 
formed yet, only South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania 
represented. New York and Massachusetts have been here but have gone 
to New Haven to endeavour to settle by way of Compromise with other 
Commissioners the dispute between those two States respecting Territory, 3 
both these States are now daily expected back and it is supposed that the 
delegates of Connecticut and New Jersey will make their Appearance as 
soon as possible after they are informed of the return of the aforemen- 
tioned States from New Haven so that a Congress me [sic~\ be expected 
to be formed in a few days. 

I wrote you some days past and informed you of the death of my Col- 
league Mr. Nash. 4 



560. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

(Circular.) Office of Secretary of Congress, 

December 14, 1786. 
Sir, 

I am sorry to inform Your Excellency that since the first Monday in 
November last the States have not assembled in sufficient numbers to 
proceed to business. At present there are Delegates attending from sundry 
States, but Pennsylvania, Virginia and South Carolina are the only States 
represented. This is the more unfortunate as among other matters of great 
importance which demand the immediate attention and deliberation of 
Congress, the disorders in Massachusetts Seem to be hastening fast to a 
crisis. The interests of the Confederacy certainly require a Speedy and 
full representation in Congress. 

[S59] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers (addressed, "His Excellency the Gov- 
ernor of North Carolina Favoured by Captain Tinker") ; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 793. 

2 The New York Daily Advertiser of Dec. 8 has a Boston item on the subject, 
dated Nov. 25, that of Dec. 11 has one dated Nov. 30, while that of Dec. 15 has a long 
account from Worcester dated Dec. 4. 

3 See nos. 549, 551, 552, 554, ante, 603, post. The meeting was however at Hartford 
instead of New Haven. See the Journals, Oct. 8, 1787. King wrote to Secretary Thomson 
from Hartford Dec. 10, "I hope to be in New York some time next week". The letter 
was mainly concerning the Shays affair in Massachusetts (Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 59, vol. III., f. 109). 

4 See no. 557, ante. 

[560] x N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 
5792; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 107; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 794. 



520 Continental Congress 

561. Timothy Bloodworth to the North Carolina Assembly. 1 

Gentlemen, 

Agreeable to your Resolve of yesterday 2 I proceed to Lay before you a 
subject of importance, which has for somtime employ'd the deliberation of 
Congress, somtime prior to my arrival at New York, Don diego de Gar- 
doqui the Minister of Spain appear'd at the seat of Congress, and pro- 
duced a Commission from his Catholic Majesty, to fix the Boundery be- 
tween the United States and the King his Master, in which was contain'd 
som general expressions that imply'd a power to negociate a treaty of 
Commerce, in consequence whereof, the United States in Congress 
sembled, granted to John Jay Esqr. Secretery of forreign affairs; Plene- 
potentiary powers to negociate a treaty of commerce, and fix the Boundery 
of the United States, with Mr. Gardoqui Insisting as an ultimatum, on 
the free navigation of the river Missecippey, and the Boundery as stipu- 
lated by the Treaty with Great Brittain. this subject remaind in a State of 
privasy, untill Tuesday the 30th of May last, when a letter was reciev'd 
in Congress from the Secretary of forreign affairs, who complaind of an 
obstruction that prevented his proceeding on the negociation with Mr. 
Gardoqui, and requested Congress to appoint a Committee invested with 
equal Powers to assist him in the negociation, and Desired, that the e 
tance of such a Committee should be kept a secret, to which Con^ 
did not agree, but the day following thought proper to appoint a commit- 
tee to confer with Mr. Jay on the subject, and give information to the 
house, in this situation the business remaind until Tuesday the 1st. of 
august, when Mr. King mov'd to have the Committee discharg'd, and the 
subject refer'd to a Committee of the house, to this preposition there arose 
various objections, it was at length agreed that Mr. Jay should appear 
before the house on the thursday following, to give an account of his 
proceedings on that business, at which time the secretary appear'd, and 
produc'd two letters from Mr. Gardoqui introductory to the negociation, 
in which the embassedar denied the right of navigating the Missecippey to 
be in the United States, he used som arguments to evince the Advantages 
that would arise to the United States by closing with the offers of the King 
of Spain, the secretary then offerd various reasons to discover the ad- 
vantages that would arise from a treaty of commerce with spain, and 
the Disadvantages consequent on a refusal, and urgd in pressing terms the 
expediency of relinquishing the right of navigating the river Missecippey, 
for the space of 25, or 30 Years, and concluded by reading the articles of 
the propos'd treaty, the substance of which were as follows viz\ The trade 
to be on principles of perfect reciprocity, a Tarriff to be setled by commis- 
sioners in one Year after the ratification, importation to be freely made 
in each others vessels, the Duties to be paid by each, in the ports of the 
other, the same as those paid by the natives. Masts and Spars to be pur- 
chased from the United States for the Use of the Navy of Spain, and 

[56i] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. State Recs.. XXII. 899. This report was found by 
W. G. Lcland in the Department of State and was afterwards deposited in the North 
Carolina state archives. 

2 See N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 93, 325. 



December, 1786 521 

paid in Specie, provided the[y] are as good and as cheap as those pro- 
cured from the Baltic, permission also to go to the Canaries, her ports 
in the West Indies, and in South America to be shut, and the article of 
Tobacca to be prohibitted in her European ports, the secretary then with- 
drew, and Congress after various Debates agreed to refer the subject to 
a committee of the whole, who accordingly entered on the Business on 
thursday the 10th of August, and continued on that subject until wednis- 
day the 23d at which time the Committee agreed to report, on Monday the 
28th when the subject was again agitated with that warmth, which might 
have reasonably been expected on a Matter of such importance, and on 
Wednesday the 30th of august the Question was taken, when seven States 
voted to repeal the Ultimatum and give up the navigation of the Missecip- 
pey, viz: New Hamshire, Massechusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New 
York, Jersay, and Pensilvania. this Measure was oppos'd by Maryland, 
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, who used their 
utmost endeavours to fall upon Conciliating terms, offering to grant to 
the King of Spain a Duty of 2^ Pr. Ct. for all produce landed at New 
Orleans, and to forbear carrying any Kinde of Merchantdise up the river, 
but riturn in emty boats, which proposals was refus'd. the arguments now 
turn'd on propriety of siven States repealing an ultimatum, which enlarg'd 
the powers of a Negociator, when nine States was required by the Federal 
Compact, to enter on treaties. Mr. King observ'd that nine States was 
only competant to enter on treaties, but seven were sufficient to repeal, 
and the power which could repeal the whole might certainly repeal any 
part. Various attempts were made to procure the Yeas and Nays on this 
important question, which was repeatedly evaded, and at length set aside 
by the previous question, on monday the 4th of September it was agreed 
by the contending parties, to let the matter rest until Mr. Munroe and 
Mr. King return'd from Philedelphia, being appointed to attend the As- 
sembly of Pensilvania. after their return the subject was renewed, and 
attempts made to prevent the Journals of Congress on that subject, from 
being delivered to the Secretary of forrein affairs, but all in vain, for on 
Wednesday the 26th of September, the[y] were delivered up, and we have 
reason to fear the Treaty is now on foot, if not compleated. 3 It will rest 
with Youre Honorable House to Determine, the expediency of Instruct- 
ing Youre Delegates either to consent to, or oppose, the ratification, as shall 
appear most advisable. Thus Gentlemen I have given you a concise account 
of the proceedings of Congress on the subject of the Spanish Treaty. I 
beg leave to subjoin the reasons that induced me to oppose the Measure. 
1st, it was my openion that the United States in Congress Assembled, are 
not by the Federal compact, invested with power to Dispose of any of the 
priveledges, whether natural, or acquired, of the Individual States, with- 
out their consent first obtain'd. admit the position, and oure Dearest priv- 
eledges are rendered precarious, and insecure, grant Congress the Power 
occluding the Missecippey, and by parrity of reason, every other river in 

3 Cf. nos. 408, 413, 425, 443, 463-473, 475-482, 485, 492, 495-497, 499, 5°7, 508, 511, 
519, ante, 562, 590, 602, 605, 617, post. 



522 Continental Congress 

the United States must be at their Disposal, which appears an obsurdity. 
inadmisible. Vattell on the Law of Nations, in his Chapter of mixed 
rights, observes that navigable rivers are not annexed to the sovereignity, 
nor can the[y] be aded to the Domain, without the express grant of the 
people. 2d, the partial advantages offered by the propos'd treaty, the 
Eastern States are to recieve the benefits, by the sale of their fish and oile, 
which are consum'd in Spain, and the Southern States are to pay the pur- 
chase, by giving up the Missecippey. Whilest Tobacca the staple com- 
modity in som of the States are excluded, and the subjects of Spain are 
admited into all oure ports without exception, while the Citizens of the 
United States are pricluded from the west India Islands and south America. 
Spain grants us no exclusive priveledges, she has it in her power to en- 
courage the trade of other nations, to a degree that may amount to a pro- 
hibition of the United States, and the reciprocity propos'd by the projict, 
exist only in term [sic], the Duties paid in the ports of spain are from 
10. to 20 pr. Ct. whilest those paid in the United States are at present, 
and should the import take place at 5 pr. Ct : the Tar riff propos'd may be 
evaded, as it requires joint consent of parties, under these circumstances 
it is not dificult to Determin where the Ballance of advantages will remain. 
3d, and lastly the pernicious Consequences inseperably connected with the 
measure, the Alienation of the Citizens, and the Depreciation of the Valine 
of the Lands on the Western waters, on this subject it is needles to 
enlarge, as the disadvantages arising therefrom, must appear conspicuous 
to every Gentleman of Moderate discernment, one circumstance it may be 
proper to add, by a letter recieved in Congress on Tuesday the 26th of 
September, wrote by Mr. Smith from London, advising Congress to gaurd 
against the Brittish Influence in the Western Country. 4 having annexed 
my reasons for opposing the Treaty, you Gentlemen will be able to Judge 
of the propriety of my conduct. I presume every other necessary Intelle- 
gence have been laid before Youre Honorable House, by his Excellency 
From Gentlemen Youre Most Obedient Humble Servant 

Timothy Bloodworth * 
December 16th, 1786. 

[Addressed:] To The Honorable The General Assembly Delivered in 
Confidence 

4 The letter of William Stephens Smith, dated July 5, 1786, is in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789. III. 32- 

5 This report was first written in the first person plural, then changed to singular, 
and it is endorsed, "The Hon'ble T Bloodworth and [JamesJ White". Evidently it was 
first written with a view to its being a joint report of Bloodworth and White, and in the 
journals of the Senate and House it is so termed. The report also bears the legislative en- 
dorsement, " In Senate 16 Dec. 1786. Read and sent to the House of Commons J. 
Haywood C." It was read in the House of Commons Dec. 20. See N. C. State Recs., 
XVIII. 87, 02, 93, 105, 134, .120, 325, 327, 352, 359, 364. 

A letter from James White to Governor Caswell requesting a warrant for the cus- 
tomary allowance for going and returning, due him as a delegate to Congress, is ibid., 
p. 770, but there has the date " October 22nd, 1786 ". The copy of the letter in the Gov- 
ernor's Letter-Book is dated " Xber 22nd, 1786 ", which is to be interpreted as meaning 
December. The letter was written from Fayetteville, where the legislature was then 
sitting. 



December, 1786 523 

562. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York Deer. 18, 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

Your favor of the 4th Instant was received by the last post. It was for- 
tunate that the same causes of the dalay of the Mail, operated also to pre- 
vent the sailing of the Packet — with very little trouble I placed your let- 
ter in the hands of Mr. Chavalier. 2 The re-election of Colo. Lee has 
afforded me the highest pleasure, as it undoubtedly relieves his feelings, 
but I am at the same time deeply affected by the loss of Mr. Jones from the 
delegation. 3 

T cannot learn that Mr. Jay is proceeding in the business of the Missis- 
sippi, he probably will waite to see the countenance of the new Congress, 
if he can assure himself of the cover of a bare majority, I believe he will 
make the treaty, and rely upon the timidity of some of the dissenting 
States for the ratification. It is probable the Eastern column will be broken 
in Jersey and Pennsylvania, and, it is equally so, that there will be a change 
in some of the Southern States. 4 

The business of a convention is well brought forward by Virginia, and 
I hope their act will be generally adopted. The dereliction of Massachusetts 
is, however, to be apprehended, the delegation of that State prevented the 
recommendation of the measure from Congress, as suggested by the depu- 
tations at Annapolis, and advised its non adoption in their Legislature, 
the effect of this advice, I have not been informed of, but the natural sup- 
position is, that nothing was done in the late Session, and there will not 
be another, before the time proposed for the convention of the deputies. 
The reasons given by these gentlemen for their opposition are, that the 
mode of amending the confederation is provided by the act itself, amend- 
ments are to originate with Congress and, be agreed to by the States, and 
that it would derogate from the dignity and weight of that body, to take 
a secondary position in the business. 5 This is an elevated idea, and, in an 
efficient sovereignty, would be a wise one. The truth is, we have not a 
government to wield and correct, but must pursue the most certain means 
for obtaining one. We have only four States now on the floor. 

[562] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
II. 406; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 46 (extract). 

2 Probably the " Chevallie fils ", " Merchant of Rochefort ", who presented a 
memorial Sept. 13, 1785, in behalf of his father, Pierre Francois Chevallie, asking pay- 
ment for clothing, arms, and ammunition furnished during the war. Subsequently he 
acted as agent for Beaumarchais. See the Journals, Sept. 20, 22, 1785, Oct. 10, 1787, 
June 20, Sept. 25, Oct. 1, 1788. 

3 See nos. 551, 552, ante, and no. 563, post. 

4 Cf. no. 561, note 3, ante. 

5 See no. 510, note 3, ante, and nos. 568, 581, 585, 589, post. See also Life of King, 
I. 199 et seq., Higginson to Knox Feb. 8, 13, and to Dane Mar. 3, 1787, in Am. Hist. Assoc, 
Annual Report, 1896, I. 745-Z54, Knox to Higginson, Jan. 28, and to General Lincoln, 
Feb. 14, in Drake, Life and Correspondence of Knox, pp. 93-95. 



40 



524 Continental Congress 

563. Henry Lee to James Madison. 1 

Alex'a 20th Deer. '86. 
My dear Sir, 

After the notification of my disgrace which reached me about the 20th 

Novr. I hastened from N York and pressed forward to my home 

This subject always disturbs me and excites my resentment. But cruel and 
ungrateful as I estimate the treatment I have received from the assembly, 
I am frank to declare to you that the opinion I had formed of your der Mic- 
tion of the friendship which existed between us rendered my affliction 
doubly severe. In all nations precedents are to be found demonstrative of 
the caprice and indelicacy of public bodys, therefore being not alone I 
could have procured repose to my feelings by believing that all who knew 
me, would attribute my dismission to the proper cause. 

Your abandonment of a man who loved your character to excess and 
who esteemed your friendship among the first blessings of his life con- 
nected with the circumstance of your election to the office from which he 
was dismissed, togather with many other considerations which are unnec- 
essary to repeat wounded me deeply, and has given me many melancholy 
hours. Your letter of the nth affords me some relief, and as it explains 
your intentions which before were subject to conjecture, strengthens my 
hope that you regard me as I have ever esteemed you, and that no differ- 
ence in political sentiments ever has or ever can cool the affection which 
commenced in our youth, and till very lately has existed in full vigor. It 
is my wish that we may ever be united, and I believe you cannot question 
my sincerity especially, when it relates to you. 2 

My present intentions will carry me to Richmond unless the assembly 
may soon rise, when I shall have the happiness of conversing with you. 

564. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York Deer. 24, 1786. 
Sir, 

We have been honoured with your Excellencies two letters of the 1st 
Instant, and another of the 6th with their several enclosures. 

There being no Congress as yet, application cannot be made to that 
Body, for the Military Stores wanted for the Western Country; nor is 

[563] ' Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings of Madison, II. 284 n. 

2 Concerning Lee's omission from the Virginia delegation to Congress see nos. 
551, 562, ante. Lee speaks of Madison's letter to him Nov. 11, but he probably means Madi- 
son's letter of Nov. 23 {Writings, II. 286), which refers to Lee's letter of Nov. II. Cf. 
Madison to Lee Nov. 9 (ibid., p. 284). To Washington Madison wrote Nov. 8: "The 
delegation to Congress drops Col. H. Lee, a circumstance which gives much pain to those 
who attend to the mortification in which it involves a man of sensibility. I am yet to learn 
the ground of the extensive disapprobation which has shewn itself" (ibid., p. 284). Al- 
though he does not allude to it, unless in the last clause of his letter, Lee must by this time 
have learned that on Dec. 1 he had been chosen in the room of Joseph Jones, who had 
resigned. See also Madison to Jefferson Dec. 4 (ibid., p. 204). 

[564] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson and Carrington) ; Cal. Va. 
State Papers, IV. 209 (extract). 



December, 1786 525 

there reason to suppose they would consent to furnish them, as the prop- 
erty of the United States, for any object under the direction of a particu- 
lar State. Several applications of this kind, have been made, and uni- 
formly refused. It is thought that any one instance of issuing the Stores 
of the Union for a State purpose, would introduce a practice, destructive of 
that oeconomy which is essential to the interests and safety of the whole. 2 

We are fully in sentiment with your Excellency that our Western 
troubles demand, in their nature, the interposition of the Arms of the 
Union, but Congress have been tried upon this point, and have determined 
differently. 8 

It is probable the Secretary at War may be authorised to sell the supply 
your Excellency proposes to purchase. We will, immediately, see him upon 
the subject, and be enabled to communicate the result by the next post. 4 



565. David Ross to the Governor of Maryland ( P). 1 

Annapolis 27 Decern 'r 1786. 
Sir, 

Your and the honourable the Speakers letter notifying my appointment 
to Congress has been considered, and as I have concluded to endeavour to 
discharge the duties incident to the Trust reposed in me, as soon as the 
public exigencies may require and private circumstances will permit, be 
pleased Sir to communicate to your honourable Body such my acceptance 
and assure them of the high sense I have of honor done 

Your respectful and obedt. Servt. 

David Ross 

566. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York Deer. 2j, 1786. 
D'r Sir, 

My going to Virginia this winter is indispensible — it is probable from 
the state in which events has placed the delegation, that I shall not have an 
opportunity of going after the session commences without leaving the 
State unrepresented, upon these considerations I have determined to 
seize the present moment and shall set out early in the next week, in the 
mean time I think it proper to give you Notice of the circumstance, that 
you not rely upon my being present. I shall leave Colo. Grayson here, who 
will be well enough to form with yourself a representation, but he is far 
from being recovered, my absence will not exceed six or eight weeks. 
We have as yet no Congress nor do I see a near prospect of one, but it will 

2 See, for instance, the action on the New Hampshire application, Journals, Oct. 
4, 5, Nov. 2, 1785, and that on the Massachusetts application, ibid., Apr. 19, 1786. Cf. nos. 
587, 59i, Post. 

3 The reference is probably to the Massachusetts case. See no. 558, ante. 

4 See nos. 587, 591, post. 

[565] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
[566] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 



526 Continental Congress 

be well for you to get on the floor as early as you can. 2 inclosed is a paper 
containing a letter from Mr. Calonne Comptroller General of the Finances 
of France to Mr. Jefferson which is truly interesting to the U. S. s 

567. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Newyork December 30th, 1786. 2 
Sir, 

The Consul General of France has long been endeavoring to obtain an 
exact Account of what and how much each State annually exports of her 
own growth and Manufacture and has obtained it from every other but 
North Carolina. And as I am sure it can be productive of Nothing but good 
to the State that her Exports should be known to him and through him to 
his Nation I take the Liberty of requesting that your Excellency will be 
pleased to direct the several Naval Officers to transmit to the Delegation of 
North Carolina in Congress without delay an exact account of each and 
every Article exported from that State in the Years 1785 and 1786 of her 
own Growth and Manufacture certified under their hands in their Official 
Capacities. 8 The States in general publish in the News papers an Account 
of their annual Exports, South Carolina has lately published hers in which 
the utmost parti [c]ularity has been observed, even to the naming the Class 
of the Vessel that is whether Ship, Brig or any other Kind and the Nation 
to which each Vessel belonged in which any of their produce was exported. 

568. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

N. Y., Jany. 7, 1787. 
My Dear Sir, 

Congress is not yet organized, and it is uncertain when it will be; tin- 
anxiety and dissatisfaction still continues, which has for some time existed, 
concerning the government of these States. God only knows what will 
prove the issue. It is most certain that things will not long continue in 
their present condition, if foreseeing the dangers which hang over us, we 
do not unite in measures calculated to establish public happiness; I am 

- Madison was at this time planning* to leave Virginia within a few days to take 
his seat in Congress (see his letter to his father Dec. 17, Writings. II. 298; cf. his letter 
to Pendleton Jan. 9, ibid., p. 303) ; but he did not take his seat until Feb. 12. 

8 Calonne's letter to Jefferson, dated Oct. 22, was enclosed in a letter from Jefferson 
to Jay Oct. 23 (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 821), and printed copies of it were 
transmitted with Jefferson's letter of Oct. 27 (ibid., p. 826). Calonne's letter is ibid., p. 827. 
[567] 1 N. C Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 708. 

2 William Samuel Johnson, who had been absent since Oct. 23, has the following 
entries in his diary for Dec. 28 to 31 : " Deer. 28th. Warm. No Congress, at Barrow's etc. 
Din'd and Tea at Verplanks Even'g at Pendleton's Snuff 4/6. Salt Peter 9/. [ ?] 4/. 
Exps. 8/ ; 29th. Cold. No Congress. Took Lodgings at Barrows at 52/. Even'g Chapman 
etc Pendleton's Bill 14/ Griddle 11/6. Exps. 9/ Wood 10/; 30th. Warm. No Congress 
. . . .; 31st. Warm. Reading. Din'd Verplanks. Exps. 4/." 

8 See Governor Caswell's rej)ly, Mar. 1, 1787, in N. C. State Recs.. XX. 628, his 
circular letter to the naval officers Mar. 1 {ibid., p. 631), sundry responses (ibid., pp. 657- 
659, 676), and Caswell to Blount Apr. 24 (ibid., p. 683). Cf. no. 861, post. 
[568] l Life of King. I. 200; Austin. Life of (icrry. II. 3. 



January, ij8j 527 

confident that no man will be able to bear up against calamitous events, 
which will otherwise force themselves into existence. 2 

You have seen the Virginia law for the appointment of delegates to a 
Convention in Philadelphia in May ; Gen. Washington, Mr. Wythe, Ran- 
dolph, Madison and others are appointed for this convention. Pennsyl- 
vania has appointed Mifflin, the two Morris, Fitzsimmons and three others 
on the part of that State ; Hamilton, who is a member of the assembly of 
this State, will exert himself to induce them to send members; Jay and 
others are opposed to the measure, not alone because it is unauthorized, 
but from an opinion that the result will prove inefficacious. 

General Washington will not attend, although there will be at the same 
time and place a general meeting of deputies from all the State Societies of 
the Cincinnati. If Massachusetts should send deputies for God's sake be 
careful who are the men ; the times are becoming critical ; a movement of 
this nature ought to be carefully observed by every member of the 
Community. 



569. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Newyork January 7th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... At present only the States of S. C. Penna. N J. and N Y are 
represented, from Georgia there's Col. Few, N. C. myself, V 2 Col. Gray- 
son, M none, D. none, C Doctr. Johnson, Rhode Island none, M. Mr. King, 
N. H. none. Few from Letters received expects a Colleag[u]e and so 
do I. Madison is shortly expected from Virginia, Maryland is expected 
shortly on the floor and Johnson and King are in Expectation of Col- 
leagues shortly, the former daily, from this state of facts you may judge 
as well as any body when we shall probably have a Congress. If it did 
not appear to me quite Certain that a certain Friend 3 of your's will be 
president I would certainly return home as soon as I could after the 
Assembly had adjourned and indeed even with that Certainty in view if 
I could do it consistently with the Wishes of my friends I believe I should. 

2 In a letter to Washington the same day Jay expressed his views quite frankly 
{Correspondence of Jay, III. 226; Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, IV. 153). Cf. no. 
562, ante, and no. 585, post. 

William Samuel Johnson's diary Jan. 1 to 7 is as follows : "AD. 1787. Janu. 1st. Warm 
Foggy No Cong's Visits. News Boys 6/. Expens. 9/; 2d. Fine Warm. No Cong's 
Visits. Snuff 4/6. Tea etc. 15/1. Exps. 13/ ; 3d. Foggy Do. No. Cong's .... Expens. 
12/6; 4th. Do. No Cong's to Wood 16/6 Parson's Bill 7/. Exps. 10/9; 5th. Fine Do. 
. . . .; 6th. Cold Do ; 7th. Fine Sunday " 

[569] 1 N. C. Hist. Coram., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 V, M, D, C, and M, in succession, are for Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Con- 
necticut, and Massachusetts respectively. 

3 That is, William Blount himself. See nos. 570, 572, 573, 576, post. 



528 Continental Congress 

570. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Newyork January 10th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you on Sunday last by post but as Mr. Guion who sails in the 
Morning for Edenton has been good enough to call on me for Commands 
I embrace the Opportunity to write you again tho' Neither then nor now 
have I any thing scarcely worth communicating. We have no Congress 
yet and only the following Gentlemen attending from Georgia Col. Few. 
South Carolina Pinckney, Bull, Kean, Huger and Parker, North Caro- 
lina myself, Virginia Colonel Grayson, Maryland Colonel Hindman, Penn- 
[sylv]ania Mr. Meredith and General Irvine, [New Jersey Mr. C]lark 
and Mr. S[cu] reman, Ne[w Y]ork, Mr. [Harring Mr.] Laurence and 
Mr. Smith, Connecticut D[r. Johnso]n, Massachusets Mr. King and each 
of these Gentlemen who have not yet Colleagues daily expect one. From 
Delaware Rhode Island and New Hampshire none are shortly expected 
and perhaps never from the too little ones. So that you can judge as well 
as any person here when we shall probably have a Congress. This Circum- 
stance is very disagreeable to me for you know I determined when I 
left home if I was not President that I would return shortly home and 
with a very great Certainty of that Object when a Congress is formed I 
found return immediately or before this if I could with any Reputation 
to myself after having gone so far in the Business." .... 

571. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecti. 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

N Y. 1 2th Janry. 1787. 
S'r, 

We had determined, as soon as by yr. Ex[cellency']s fav[orabl]e 
interp[ositio]n the necess[ar]y supplies were provided for us, to have 
come on imm[ediatel]y to N Y but the late Meet [in] g of the Com- 
m[issione]rs from Mass[achuset]ts and N Y at Hartford* several of 
wh[ic]h were also Deleg[ate]s in Cong[res]s having in effect rend[ ere ]d 
it impossible that there sho'd be a Cong [ res] s till they had return 'd it 
was to no purpose for us to proceed. As soon as the Comm[issioner]s had 
finished their Business we lost no time in repairing to N Y . Yet unfortun- 
[atel]y till this time there has not been a suffk[ien]t No. of Deleg[ate]s 
to form a Cong[res]s. We have now however the happi[nes]s to find 
that by the arriv[a]l of Mr. Pierce last ev[en]ing from Georg[i]a 

[570] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 See no. 568 ante, and nos. 572, 573, 576, post. Blount's language appears some- 
what tangled, but his meaning is fairly clear. 

[57i] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers (draft in the writing of William Samuel 
Johnson). 

1 See nos. 549, 554, ante. Following is Johnson's diary Jan. 8 to 13 : " 8th. Cl> 

No Congress Visits Gen'l Knox . . . .; oth Stormy No Congress ; 10th. 

Snow No Congress. Visits ; nth. Cold. No Cong's Visits. Din'd Mr. Jay's much 

Comp'y. . . .; 12th. Do. No Cong's Visits. . . .; 13th. Do. Do. Do. To Washing Bill a 
Exps. 15/" 



January, 1787 529 

there will be 6 States in Town, and as the N. J. Deleg[ate]s can be 
call'd in immed[iatel]y, of conseq[uenc]e Cong [res] s will open prob- 
ably on Mond[a]y next. As soon as anything occurs there worthy 
of yr. attention we shall have the Hon[o]r to com[municat]e it to 
you. In the mean time there is nothing new here worth mentioning, 



572. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New york January 12th 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... As there has been no Congress I can give you no Congressional 
News but I will tell you what Members are here Namely from Georgia, 
Colonel Few, South Carolina, Pinckney, Bull, Huger, Parker and Kean, 
North Carolina Myself, Virginia Mr. Grayson, Pennsylvania Mr. Mere- 
dith and Mr. Irvine, New-Jersey Mr. Clark and Mr. Scureman Newyork 
Mr. Laurence, Mr. Harring and Mr. Smith, Connecticut Dr. Johnson, 
Massachusetts Mr. King. Mr. Few daily expects Judge Walton or Major 
Pierce, Myself, Mr. Bloodworm or some other, Mr. Madison and others 
are expected from Virginia 2 A Delegation is shortly expected from 
Maryland ; Dr. Johnson expects Mr. Mitchel and Mr. King Mr. Dane. No 
Representation is expected from the other three States in any short Time 
namely Delaware, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. Hence you can 
judge as well as any person here when we shall probably form a Congress. 
My expectation of a Colleague is founded upon the Knowledge that I 
ought to have one and not upon any Information that I have receved 
from them for I have not receved a single line from either of them. 3 The 
inclosed Papers contain the latest Accounts of the Proceedings of Shays 
and his Adherents. In a Conversation I lately had with Mr. King he in- 
formed me that a Court was to sit on the 23d Instant in one of the Counties 
in which the Adherents of Mr. Shays were very numerous, which Court 
Government were determined to support and he believed Shays and his 
Adherents were as determined that it should not sit and if he is right in 
his Opinion and Conjecture the Spur of force is not far distant. 

The Object of my coming here so far as it respected myself appears 
quite in my power when a Congress is formed with which I assure you 
I am not perfectly satisfied for it will be very inconvenient for me to 
stay here the year out, indeed I am almost sometimes disposed to set out 
immediately but this I shall not do untill I hear from you. 4 

[572] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XX. 603 (part). 

2 Madison wrote to Pendleton Jan. 9, " I expect to set out in a few days for 
N. York" {Writings, II. 307). He did not arrive in New York however until Feb. 10. 
See no. 587, note 2, post. 

3 The text in N. C. State Recs., which was printed from a copy in the Governor's 
Letter-Book, ends at this point. That copy also contains some errors, particularly in some 
of the names. 

4 The object was the presidency of Congress. See nos. 569, 570, ante, 573, 576, 
post. 



530 Continental Congress 

573- William Pierce to William ( ?) Washington. 1 

New York, Jany. 14th, '87. 
Dear Washington, 

In looking around among my Friends, I know of no Man who deserves 
more of my attention than yourself. I esteem you much, and wish you 
well. I have no Speculative views, and therefore you may believe me 
sincere. 

On the nth instant we arrived here, after a tedious and dangerous 
passage of twenty nine Days. Nothing could be more disagreeable than 
our Voyage, but it gave Mrs. Pierce an opportunity of seeing Massa- 
chusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York, which, in some mea- 
sure compensated for it. 

Before my arrival Colo. Lee 2 had taken his departure for Virginia, so 
that I have not had an opportunity of seeing him. I wish I could have 
been fortunate enough to have seen him before his departure, that I might 
have hinted your Speculation to him 

Congress have not yet made a House, but we shall most certainly in a 
Day or two be able to Sit. I think if Walton had come on he would prob- 
ably have been made President; but as it is a Mr. Blount from North 
Carolina is talked of. 8 .... 

574. James Manning to Hezekiah Smith. 1 

Providence, Jan. 18, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Paper Money of this State has run down to 6 for one, 
notwithstanding which the Legislature continue it as a tender, and mean 
to do so, and to pay off all the State Debts with it, be it as bad as it may. 
At the last Session I petitioned them to pay my Advances, and the 
remainder of my Salary as Delegate, amounting to upwards of 400 
Dollars, this they offered to do in their paper, but no other way. Besides 
they have ordered all the Import Orders brout in and exchanged at the 
Treasury for paper at parr ; so that I must loose 5.6ths of my Salary so 
paid to me. A more infamous set of men, under the Character of a Legis- 
lature, never, I believe, disgraced the Annals of the World. And there 
is no prospect of a change for the better 

[573] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1306. 
2 Henry Lee. 
s See nos. 569, 570, 572. ante, 575, 576, post. 

The following undated note is in the Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 40. 
f. 317: "I will thank Mr. Thompson, or any one of the Gentlemen in the Secretary's 
Office, for a copy of the Journals of Congress. Wm. Pierce" Beneath the signature 
Roger Alden has written, "Complete except 83, 84, 85. delivered Jany. 22d 1786 [1787]." 
On the back is the endorsement, " delivered Jan'y 22d 1787 ". 

William Samuel Johnson's diary Jan. 14 to 20 is as follows : " 14th. Modr. Sund'y. Dined 
at Temples, etc. Exps. 4/ ; 15th. Thaw. No Cong's. Din'd Dr. Lees. To Bells 6/. Exps. 13/6; 
16th. Do. Do. Evening at Dr. L. Bards. To Wood 7/. Exps. 12/8; 17th. Cold. Attempt to 
form Congress. Visits. Exps. 14/3; 18th. Do. No Congress. Dined Smith's. Do. [1. e., visits J 
Exps. 11/10; 19th. Very Cold No Congress. . . .; 20th. Sleet Do." 

[574] x Brown University Library, Manning Papers; Guild, Early History of Brown 
Umversity, p. 444. 



January, iy8y 531 

575. Stephen Mix Mitchell to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York Jany. 24th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

Whether I am to tell you we have a Congress or no, I cannot tell. 

About ten Days since a Gentleman viz : Majr. Peirce arrived here from 
Georgia, who made us seven States, including N'w York and Jersey, the 
latter of which engaged to be here on short Notice. 2 

New York appear'd on the floor for one Day. when an attempt for a 
president was made, there seem'd a Division in Sentiment. Doctr. Johnson 
had two Votes, which was as many as any Gentleman could boast; we 
adjourn'd for consideration, 3 since which N'w York has not appear'd in 
Congress : tis said the time of their Delegates was nearly expired, and 
that tis now quite out. No measures have been taken by the Legislature 
of this State to supply the place altho they have been conven'd some 
weeks. I am told they are to re'elect next f ryday, time will shew ; twould 
not be a matter of surprize to me if they should omit the Matter for a 
month longer. 4 

You will see by the papers, that this State has by approbating the 
Conduct of the Govr. in not calling the Assembly upon desire of Congress ; 
step'd as twere out of their way to give Congress a Slap in the face. 5 

The Scituation of Congress is truely deplorable, no one seems willing 
to contribute a Mite to extricate us from the mire into which we are fallen. 

Pensylvania in answer to Messrs. King and Monro, have so far de- 
clared in favor of dividing the Debt, as to say, they will pay their own 
Citizens only. 6 

I cannot see there remains any necessity for keeping up a Representation 
in Congress, in our present Scituation, all we can possibly do, is to 
recommend, which is an old, stale device and no better than the wish of 
a few Individuals relative to publick Concerns. 

Our Eyes at present are turn'd to Masachusetts and expect by Satur- 
day's post, to hear of feats of Chivalry. We are told that Genl. Lincoln 
and Mr. Shays are this week to take feild to try the Title for Empire in 
the feild of Mars; whether Good or ill is to be produced, futurity must 
discover. 7 

[575] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Wadsworth Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 569, 570, 572, 573, ante. 

3 This was on Jan. 17. See the Journals ; also Johnson's diary, no. 573, note 3, ante. 
From Jan. 21 to Feb. 1 Johnson uniformly records in his diary, " No Congress ". On the 
25th he " Din'd Gardoquis " ; on the 27th he " Din'd Knox's ". 

* The election of New York delegates took place on Jan. 26. See the credentials 
in the Journals, Jan. 30. The previous election, which was on Feb. 24, 1786, specified the 
term as " from the said Day of their appointment to the first Monday in November next, 
and from thence forward until ten days after the first subsequent meeting of the Legisla- 
ture ", with a proviso that the delegates should not on any account hold their seats longer 
than one year (Journals, Mar. 22, 1786). 

5 See nos. 469, 477, 485, ante, 595, 597, 509, 639, post. 

6 See nos. 493, 499. 500, 503, 554, ante. 

7 See nos. 539, 545, 548, 55I..552, 557-56o, ante, 577, 585, 590, 593, 595, 597. 
599, post. The anxiety in Congress is intimated in the following brief note from Rufus King 
to General Lincoln, Jan. 21 : " This will meet you again in military command. It conveys 
the devout wishes of a Brother Citizen for your prosperity, and the safety of the Common- 
wealth. Will you have the Goodness to direct some person about you to give me a concise 



532 Continental Congress 

You seem in Connecticut to be in the spirit of poetizing. The Anarchiad, 
book 23d is read here, with much pleasure and obtains applause, Tis judgd 
to be a meritorious production. 8 .... 



576. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New york January 28th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

By this Conveyance I send a Number of News Papers inclosed in your 
Address which contain all the current News of this place or rather may 
serve to shew that there is but very little or none. About fifteen days past 
seven States appeared on the floor of Congress and produced their respec- 
tive Credentials and proceeded to the Choic[e] of a President but in vain 
as not more than two states could agree in any one Man 2 and I really am 
unable to unravel the Mystery of this Business nor can I form any 
Opinion who will be the Man. After this Meeting there continued to be 
seven States in the City for about a Week but never again appeared at 
the same Time on the floor owing to indisposition of some one or other 
and after this last-mentioned Period expired the New York Delegation 
were off the floor and the new appointment did not take place before 
yesterday " so that I suppose we shall again on Monday that is tomorrow 
have seven States on the floor and if no more I believe it is pretty certain 
no President can be agreed on by them. The ostensible Objection raised 
by the Yankees against a Delegate from No. Carolina being put in the 
Chair is that that state is about to make some anti federal appropriation 
of her Tobacco that is by ordering the Money arising from the sale of it 
to be applyed to the Payment of the Interest due on the foreign debt and 
not suffering it to come into the Continental Treasury subject to their 
appropriation. This report has been spread by Mr. Dowse and indeed I 
am told that a Letter of Mr. Maclaines wrote as Chairman of a Com- 
mittee justafies the Report. 4 If this is true it is surely a very antifederal 

account of your situation, and of the Events which may take place on this expedition. The 
anxiety of an absent citizen at this juncture must be my apology in making this request " 
(copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia; 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1078, item 576). See Stephen Higginson to Gen. Henry Knox 
Jan. 20, in Am. Hist. Assoc., Annual Report, 1896, I. 743. 

•The Anarchiad was a satiric poem, the joint product of the " Hartford Wits", 
David Humphreys, John Trumbull, Joel Barlow, Lemuel Hopkins, and Richard Alsop. 
[576] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers (marked "Private"). 

2 See no. 575, note 3, ante. Cf. nos. 569, 570, 572, ante. 

» The credentials bear the date Jan. 26. See no. 575, note 4, ante . 

* Edward Dowse had recently gone to North Carolina in connection with the 
state's tobacco business and had been introduced to Governor Caswell by Blount. In 
Blount's letter of Jan. 12 (passage omitted from no. 572, ante.) he mentions that Dowse 
had returned but had given him little information. In his reply to this letter, Mar. 1 
(AT. C. State Recs., XX. 628), Caswell remarks upon the unsatisfactory conduct of Dowse 
in North Carolina and adds : " You have discovered by the powers the Assembly have 
given the delegates to dispose of our public Tobacco that Mr. Dowse was mistaken in 
the Idea he had taken up of the intentions of the State ; your suggestions I presume were 
well founded, as 'tis possible he might have heard some important members not unthink- 



January, 1787 533 

Act. Mr. Dowse goes further and says a Dissolution of the Union was 
publickly and openly spoke as a thing that would and ought to happen 
because the Northern states were injurious to the southern and that some 
Members said if a Dissolution was to take place that it would be best to 
hold on altogether upon the Tobacco. In reply to all this I can only say 
that some imprudent Members may have expressed themselves unthink- 
ingly but that I believe the Legislative Acts will evince a different Spirit. 

It is with great Pleasure I learn by a Letter from Mr. Sitgreaves for 
I have not been favoured with one from yourself that you are again elected 
Governor, also that Hawkins is elected to supply the place of Mr. Nash 5 
and as he was elected so early as before the 20th December I am in hourly 
Expectation of his Arrival and Colonel Grayson of Virginia is in hourly 
Expectation of the Arrival of Mr. Madison and these two arrivals will 
complete the Delegation of the four Southern states and a Delegation 
is shortly expected from Maryland so that the southern Interests will be 
strong. 

As there has been no Business done by Congress since my arrival you 
can expect no Congressional News. The new elected Delegation of this 
state are except one 6 anti federal Peasants notwithstanding the great 
Choice the state affords of Gentlemen of abilities and who are Candi- 
dates. Recollecting how earnestly Col. Burton pushed his Election I have 
daily expected him tho' I have not been favoured with a Line from 
him nor any other of my Brother Delegates. Will you please to inform 
me which two may be expected or rather which one beside Hawkins, for 
I count on him certain? 

I suppose you have seen the account published in the Papers " that 
Spain had ceded the Floridas to France 7 and that you may know as 

ingly express themselves to the effect he mentioned, and you know 'tis easy for a man 
Disposed to Derogate from the Consequence, Credit or Dignity of a State to find out from 
the bulk of our Assembly sufficient matter dropt by such members as you have directed to 
go upon." See nos. 584, 598, 601, post. 

6 The election of Governor Caswell and of the delegates took place on Dec. 16 
(N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 106, 337; see also ibid., pp. 77, ioi, 103, 105, 307, 312 334, 
336). The delegates chosen were James White, Alexander Martin, John B. Ashe, Timothy 
Bloodworth, Benjamin Hawkins, and Thomas Polk. On Dec. 18 Hawkins was chosen for 
the unexpired term of Abner Nash, deceased, and on Dec. 20 John B. Ashe was elected 
in place of Charles Johnson, resigned {ibid., pp. 113, 114, 117, 121, 128, 340-342, 346, 352). 
The assembly also requested the governor to direct Robert Burton and Nathaniel Macon 
to proceed immediately to New York to take their seats in Congress (Dec. 16, 18, ibid., 
pp. 108, 337). See Caswell's letters to Burton and Macon Dec. 20 (ibid., p. 795). Macon 
at once resigned (Jan. 24, ibid., XX. 605), giving as his reason the insufficiency of the 
grant sent to him. See further Caswell's letter of Mar. 1, cited in note 4, above. 

6 The New York delegates were John Haring, Melancton Smith, Abraham Yates, 
jr., Egbert Benson, and John Lansing, jr. The one alluded to as not of the " antif ederal 
Peasants " was no doubt Egbert Benson. 

7 Two items of this nature had recently appeared. In the Pennsylvania Journal 
of Jan. 6 is the following: 

"A late London news-paper mentions, ' That the most indisputable authorities from 
the capitals of France and Spain confirm the accounts concerning the exchange of the 
two Floridas, which were ceded to the Catholic King by the late treaty of peace, and 
which the Spaniards are about to deliver up to the French for an equivalent not in money 
but in territory'." 

Ten days later the New York Packet professed to have learned the precise terms of 



534 Continental Congress 

much of the Truth of this assertion as is Known here I will inform you 
that both the Spanish and French Ministers deny the Truth of this Publi- 
cation and are displeased with the Report which induces some People to 
believe the Report is true as to myself I am unable to form any Opinion 
tho' I am upon the best of Terms with both these Ministers and have 
conversed with both of them several Times on this Report, if the State 
Should have done as reported by Mr. Dowse the Delegation here will 
surely feel very humble for it is already in the Mouth of every body that 
she has never paid but 7/6 in the Continental Treasury 8 



577. The Georgia Delegates to the Governor of Georgia 
(Edward Telfair). 1 

[New York, January 29, 1787.]' 
As Congress, from the delinquency of many of the States, have not yet 

been able to meet, we can give you no public or material information ; 

at least none that, at this time, concerns the Union. 

We are sorry to inform you that the Government of Massachusetts 

is greatly disturbed by a serious faction which now prevails in the State. 

the exchange (issue of Jan. 16) : "The following, we are given to understand, are the 
outlines of the specific terms on which the Spaniards will cede to France the two colonies 
of East and West Florida, on the continent of North America." Five points of agree- 
ment are mentioned, followed by this statement : " It is assured, that there is besides 
a secret article, by which France guarantees in the most unequivocal terms, the navi- 
gation of the Mississippi to the Spaniards alone." 

It was probably this item that induced Otto to make public an extract of his letter to 
Jay on Dec. 21, 1786, which appeared in the New York racket of Jan. 19: 

" Several members of Congress having enquired of me with a degree of earnestness, 
whether the news concerning the pretended exchange with Spain in the southern part of 
this Continent was well founded; I cannot answer that question better than by communi- 
cating to you the following passage in a dispatch from Comte de Vergennes, of the 25th 
of August last. 

' The exchange of Louisiana for a French possession in the West-Indies has never been 
in question, and if any thing should be again said of it, you will be pleased to contradict 
it formally.' " The entire letter is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 241. 

The letter of Vergennes was in reply to one from Otto Apr. 23, 1786. relative to a 
report that Louisiana was to be exchanged for a French possession (N. M. Miller Surrey, 
Calendar of Manuscripts .... relating to the History of the Mississippi Valley. II. 1 
cf. ibid., p. 1636). On the same day that the extract of his letter to Jay was made public 
(Jan. 19) Otto wrote to Vergennes of his trouble in denying the report (ibid., p. 1638). 
See also a note by E. Wilson Lyon in Mississippi Valley Historical Review, September, 
1935. P- 251. Cf. nos. 617, 961, post. 

8 The figures appear to be "7/6", presumably 7 shillings six pence. In the com- 
mittee report of Feb. 3, 1786, North Carolina is shown to have made no payments on 
facilities. 

[577] 1 Henkels, Catalogue, no. 720, item 117 (extract). 

2 In the Catalogue the date of the letter is given as 1786, and doubtless it was so 
written. The Catalogue also names the delegates signing the letter as William Few and 
William Pierce. This fact, together with the contents of the extract, clearly show that the 
date should be 1787. 



February, 1/8/ 535 

578. The Secretary of Congress to Certain States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

Feby. 2d, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed two 
Volumes of the Journal for 1786 together with two Indexes for the 
Volumes already sent, one for the Legislature, and the other for the 
Executive ; and to inform Your Excellency that this day the United States 
in Congress Assembled have been pleased to appoint his Excellency Arthur 
St. Clair their President for the Current Year. 

I am sorry to mention that Your State still continues to be unrepre- 
sented. 2 

579. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York Feby 8, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have received the favour of your letter of the 25 Jany with the papers 
enclosed, and as they related to a matter of Public concern, I judged it 
proper to communicate them to Congress who have been pleased to order 
copies thereof to be transmitted to and lodged with the board of treasury, 
where I presume they will lie, until Beaumarchai, als. Hortalezs C'y who 
still keeps up his demands, shall force a further enquiry. I now return 
the original letters of Mr. Grand and Mr. Durivai agreeably to your 
request, 2 

[578] x N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 108; N. C. State Recs.> XX. 608. 

2 The first paragraph constituted the letter to New Hampshire, Rhode Island, 
Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. The last paragraph was added to the letter for North 
Carolina. 

Under Feb. 2 William Samuel Johnson noted in his diary, " Cold Congress opened " ; on 
the 3d and 5th (Saturday and Monday) he was "at Congress"; from the 6th to the 
10th there was " No Congress " ; on the 8th he " Din'd Presidents ". 

[579] x Library of Congress, Franklin Papers (endorsed : " Letter relating to the Million 
of Livres Orig'l Letters relative to a Million Advanc'd to Congress by France before my 
arrival there B. F.") ; Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 109. 

2 See no. 397, ante, and no. 580, post. Franklin's letter of Jan. 25 is in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 82, vol. III., f. 273, the enclosures at ff. 293-311. It is printed in Dipt. Corr. 
U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 421, dated Jan. 27. The enclosures were: Franklin to Grand July 
11, 1786, Durivai to Grand Aug. 30, Durivai to Grand Sept. 5, Grand to Franklin Sept. 9, 
Durivai to Grand Sept. 10, and Grand to Franklin Sept. 12. They are ibid., pp. 402- 
405. Franklin's letter to Thomson is also in Works (ed. Bigelow), IX. 356 (dated 
Jan. 27) ; the enclosures ibid., pp. 337-339. Copies of the letter to Thomson and that 
to Grand are in the Jefferson Papers. Thomson appears to have laid the papers be- 
fore Congress Feb. 3, and on Feb. 5 they were referred to the board of treasury to report. 
On July 24, 1787, this letter to Franklin, together with other papers in the case, were 
once again referred to the board of treasury to report. On the subject of the French debt 
see Samuel F. Bemis, The Diplomacy of the American Revolution, pp. 39, 93, and citations. 

Among the several reports of the secretary for foreign affairs laid before Congress on 
Feb. 3 is one, dated Jan. 10, respecting an application of Sir Edward Newenham for the 
appointment of his son, Robert O'Callaghan Newenham, as consul at Marseilles. The 
matter was first broached to Franklin in a letter of July 10, 1786 (Am. Phil. Soc, Frank- 
lin Papers, XXXIV. 103), then, on Aug. 12, he again wrote Franklin on the subject, 
transmitting an application addressed directly to Congress, a letter to the President, and a 



536 Continental Congress 

580. The Secretary of Congress to the Board of Treasury. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

February 8th, 1787. 
Gentlemen, 

It having been suggested to me last spring that there must have been been 
a mistake in the Convention with France touching the money advanced 
from the Royal Treasury, or that one of the Millions said to be advanced 
previous to the Treaty in 1778 was unaccounted for, or that the million 
advanced by the General Farm must have been included in the gratuity, 
I took occasion when I was in Philadelphia last May to confer with 
Doctor Franklin on the subject, and at his request stated the matter to 
him in a letter after my return. 2 In answer thereto he sent me the letter 
and papers, of which the enclosed are Copies. The letter and papers 
appearing to me to concern the public, I thought it my duty to communi- 
cate them to Congress, who have been pleased to order Copies of them 
to be sent to your Board." 

581. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

New York, 9th February, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

By Captain Boudinot, who sailed in January, I wrote to Col. Smith 
informing him particularly of the situation of our public affairs. 2 Since 
that time Congress has been organized, and General St. Clair of Penn- 
sylvania placed in the seat of President. Nine States have not yet been 
represented, and of consequence few measures of importance have even 

third to General Washington, soliciting his favor in behalf of the application (ibid.. 
XXXIV. 114-117). The application was laid before Congress Oct. 19, 1786, and on the 24th 
was referred to the secretary for foreign affairs to report. As stated above the secretary 
laid his report before Congress Feb. 3. Meanwhile Newenham had again written to Frank- 
lin Nov. 15, expressing hopes that his son would obtain the consulship (ibid., XXXIV. 168), 
and on Nov. 21 Franklin had written to Jay emphasizing tlu- Krvices of Sir Edward to 
American prisoners in Ireland (Library of Congress, Franklin Papers). On Dec. 30 Jay 
acknowledged Franklin's letter, mentioned that Sir Edward's application had already been 
received, and stated that as soon as Congress should make a house all the papers would be 
laid before Congress (Am. Phil. Soc., Franklin Papers, XXXIV. 185: see also the Wp- 
plementary report dated Jan. 10, in the Journals). In accordance with the instructions of 
Congress Feb. 3 Jay wrote to Franklin Feb. 8; returning the letters transmitted by Frank- 
lin and stating that those letters with the others on the same subject had been laid before 
Congress, and had it not been for the act which confines the appointment of consuls to 
citizens there is no doubt but that Congress would most readily have comply'd with 
Sir Edward Newenham's Request" (Am. Phil. Soc., Franklin Papers. XXX Y. 13). It is 
further noted in the Journals under Feb. 26 that a committee was on that day appointed on 
a letter of Jay, Feb. 24, respecting Sir Edward Newenham's application. Originals and 
duplicates of Sir Edward Newenham's letters are in Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 78, vol. XVII., ff. 156-157, 183-188, 191-200, copies ibid., no. 82, vol. III., ff. 
253-262. 

[580] J Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. no; ibid., Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 49, f. 319 (draft, dated 1786). 

2 May 15, 1786 (no. 397, ante). 

• See no. 579, note 2, ante. 
[sSi] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (copy) ; Life of King, I. 212. 

8 A letter from Col. William Stephens Smith to King, Jan. 25, is in Life of King, 
I. 210. 



February, 1/8/ 537 

been debated in this assembly. 8 Your communication of the favorable 
disposition of Portugal, and particularly the directions of that court to 
the commander of a small Portuguese Squadron to extend their pro- 
tection to the ships of our country against the Barbary Corsairs, have 
induced Congress to write a letter to the Queen, acknowledging their 
gratitude on this occasion, which letter is, or will be, transmitted to you 
with directions that Col. Smith should repair to Portugal and deliver the 
same at Lisbon. 4 .... 

582. Nathaniel Mitchell to the President of Delaware 
(Thomas Collins). 1 
Sir, 

I think myself in duty bound to give your Excellency the earliest in- 
formation of every matter wherein the Interest of the State is concerned. 
At the present time I find the Southern States are ripe for a removal of 
Congress to Philadelphia, and it is the first time they have all agreed upon 
this Subject since their coming to New- York. We want nothing but the 
Voice of Delaware to decide the important question, the times of the 
Delegates from South Carolina expire the 21st of this month. 2 I hope 
your Excellency will use your endeavours to send on some one of the 
Gentlemen who are in the Delegation, it may be decided in one Day — and 
if they do not come on I think and it is generally thought we are per- 
manently fixed. Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia are 
here, Maryland is coming on, Delaware, I have vouched for, Pennsylvania 
are all sure, Jersey but in part, we have nothing to apprehend but the 
delinquincy of Delaware and from thence I think there is little to fear 
if the measure meets your Excellencies Concurrence. 3 

New York Feby. 10th, 1787. 

3 See no. 589, post. 

4 See the report of the secretary for foreign affairs in the Journals, Feb. 3 ; also 
no. 506, ante, and no. 833, post. 

King transmits to Adams a letter just received from "a Mr. Dwight" (Thomas 
Dwight?) of Springfield, giving the latest news respecting the insurgency in Massa- 
chusetts (see no. 609, post). The following day King wrote to Adams, "Letters are this 
moment received from Genl. Lincoln giving the pleasing intelligence that he dispersed the 
party under Shays on the morning of the 5th Instant" (Life of King, I. 213). See the 
Journals for Monday, Feb. 12 ; also no. 585, post. A similar letter, Feb. 10, to " My dear 
friend", (Gorham?) is in the Library of Congress, King Papers (Accession 953), with 
this postscript : " I hope to see you very soon. Nine states are represented." 

[582] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 The South Carolina delegates withdrew at the close of Feb. 21, and it was not 
until July 4 that the state was again represented, although Daniel Huger presented new 
credentials (for himself only) on Mar. 20. On Mar. 6 the South Carolina assembly had 
elected three delegates to serve until the first Monday in November, 1787, namely, Daniel 
Huger, Pierce Butler, and John Kean, and the governor was directed to forward com- 
missions to Huger and Kean, presumed to be then in attendance at Congress. Concerning 
the election see A. S. Salley, Delegates to the Continental Congress from South Carolina, 
1774- 1789, p. 36. Kean attended May 29. Pierce Butler, who was also a delegate to the 
federal convention, did not attend Congress until Aug. 2, but shortly afterward returned 
to the convention. After the adjournment of the convention he is first recorded as in 
attendance Sept. 22. 

3 See no. 583, post. The lapse of the South Carolina representation before the 
completion of that of Delaware by the appearance of another delegate prevented the 
fruition of the plan for the removal of Congress. Cf. nos. 603, 605, 612, 630, 636, 637, 
639, 642, 643, 656, 661, post. 



538 Continental Congress 

583. Nathaniel Mitchell to Gunning Bedford, sr. 1 

New- York Feby. 10th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

The very important question of a removal of Congress to Philadelphia 
is shortly to be agitated, we wait nothing but the Voice of Delaware, if 
your intentions are not to serve for any length of time I think on the 
present occasion you may venture to give us your Company, it may be 
decided in one or two days, as it will obviate the inconvenience of going 
to Congress by bringing them to us, I think it behoves us above all Penn- 
sylvania excepted to forward the measure. I build much on your coming, 
you will be received with open Arms by all the Southern States. If you 
do not come I flatter myself you will use your endeavours to send on some 
other Gentleman who is in the Delegation. It must be done before the 
2 1 st of the Month for then the time's of the Gentlemen from S. Carolina 
expire. 2 

[On the verso of Mitchell's letter is the following statement by George 
Read:] 

Having perused the within Letter I am of opinion that the same be 
forwarded by special Express to Dover to Mr. Kearney the Delegate 
chosen in the place of Mr. Bedford and this at the publick Expence and 
do recommend it to Mr. Kearney to give his Attendance at N York by 
the day within mentioned and Mr. Rodney be also made Acquainted with 
it's Contents to favour the opportunity of bringing the Session of Con- 
gress to a more Central Situation. 3 Subscribed as a Member of the Legis- 
lature of the Delaware State this 15 Feb : 1787. Geo : Read. 

584. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Newyork February 10th, 1787. 
Sir, 

On the Evening of the 8th Instant I had the Honor to receive by post 
your Excellency's Letters of the 12 and 13 Ult. 8 And I have the Pleasure 
to inform you that my Colleague Mr. Hawkins arrived yesterday after 
a very disagreeable Journey in which he experienced some unavoidable 

[583] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 3315. 
2 See no. 582, ante. 

8 Dyre Kearny attended Mar. 1, but the South Carolina representation had al- 
ready lapsed. Concerning Thomas Rodney see no. 653, post. 

[584] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs. XX. 613. 

2 Caswell's letter of Jan. 12 is in N. C. State Recs., XX. 602. A letter dated Jan. 15 
(probably the one here referred to as of the 13th) is ibid., p. 604. With his letter of Jan. 15 
the governor transmitted an act of assembly for the punishment of persons accused of 
fraudulent practices on the treasury in connection with the settlement of army accounts 
and requested that the delegates procure and transmit to him certain muster rolls referred 
to in the act. The case came to the attention of the legislature early in its session (Nov. 
25) and on Jan. 3, 1787, an act for bringing the accused persons to condign punishment 
was passed (ibid., XVIII. 217, 437)- See also ibid.. XX., pp. 610, 614, 615. Caswill ■gain 
requested the muster rolls in his letter to Blount Mar. 1 (ibid., p. 628). Cf. no. 621, post. 
On Apr. 26 the North Carolina delegates made application to Congress for the muster 
rolls of the state, and the application was referred to the secretary at war to take order. 
See no. 719, post. 



February, 1/8/ 539 

detention. I have also receved from Mr. John Gray Blount an Extract 
of the Act which authorizes the Delegates in Congress to sell and dispose 
of the public Tobacco. 3 .... 

585. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

., „ „ . , New York, Feb. 11, 1787. 

My Dear Friend, ' ' 

. . . . 2 Do you attend the Legislature? How will they stand on the 
plan of a convention at Philadelphia? For a number of reasons, although 
my sentiments are the same as to the legality of this measure, I think we 
ought not to oppose, but to coincide with this project. Let the appoint- 
ment be numerous, and if possible let the men have a good knowledge 
of the constitutions and various interests of the several states, and of 
the good and bad qualities of the confederation. 

Events are hurrying to a crisis ; prudent and sagacious men should be 
ready to seize the most favourable circumstances to establish a more 
permanent and vigorous government. I hope you will be at leisure to 
attend the convention. Madison is here. I presume he will be preparing 
himself for the convention; you know he is a delegate from Virginia; he 
professes great expectation as to the good effects of the measure. 3 

586. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

„ „. New York, Feby. nth, 1787. 2 

Dear Sir, 

.... 7th. the Mississippi. 3 At the date of my last the House of Dele- 
gates only had entered into Resolutions ag'st a surrender of the right of 
navigating it. The Senate shortly after concurred. The States South of 
Virg'a still adhere as far as I can learn to the same ideas as have gov- 

3 Caswell stated in his letter of Jan. 12 that John Gray Blount was transmitting 
a copy of the act respecting tobacco. Blount states in the omitted passage that before 
the delegates could proceed upon the business it would be necessary to have certain in- 
formation with regard to places of deposit, quantities, etc. See nos. 598, 601, 612, post. 

Following is a note from Blount to Secretary Thomson (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, 
f- 37i) : " Mr. Blount presents his Compliments to Mr. Thomson and will thank him to send 
by the Bearer a Copy of the Journals of Congress for the years 1785 and 1786. Monday 
Morning February 12th 87." Roger Alden has noted on the manuscript : " Delivered Feb'y 
1 2th 1787." 

[585] 1 Life of King, I. 201 ; Life of Gerry, II. 7. 

2 The omitted passage relates to the termination of the insurrection in Massa- 
chusetts. See nos. 557-5°o, 575, ante, 590, 591. 593, 595, 597, 599, post. 

3 Cf. no. 568, ante, and nos. 589, 590, 595, 597, 599, 627, post. See also James 
Sullivan to King, Feb. 25 {Life of King, I. 213). 

[586] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 307; Letters I. 272. 

2 The printed texts of this letter have the date Feb. 15, but there is little question 
that the date is Feb. 11. In his letter to Jefferson Mar. 19 (see no. 614, post) Madison says, 
" My last was of the nth of February." Besides, the second of the extracts here printed 
precludes a supposition that he had been in Congress four days (he first attended on 
Monday, Feb. 12). Furthermore he wrote to Monroe Feb. n : "I got to this place two days 
ago after a very tedious journey. . . . Having not yet taken my seat in Congress and had 
but little conversation with the members I have nothing to communicate on the state of 
business before them. A Congress has been made up but a few days only " (Library of 
Congress, Madison Papers). 

3 Madison was discoursing upon the principal proceedings in the Virginia legisla- 
ture since his letter to Jefferson Dec. 4 (Writings, II. 289). 

4i 



540 Continental Congress 

erned Virginia. N. Jersey one of the States in Congress which was on the 
opposite side has now instructed her Delegates ag'st surrendering to Spain 
the navigation of the River even for a limited time.* And Pen'a it is ex- 
pected will do the same. I am told that Mr. [Jay] 5 has [not ventured to 
proceed in his project] and I suppose will [not now do it] . . . . a 

Having but just come to this place I do not undertake to give you any 
general view of American affairs, or of the particular State of things in 
Mass'ts 

587. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

N York Feby 12th 1787. 2 
Sir, 

.... With respect to the expences of the late expedition agt. the 
Indians, we shall act according to circumstances though from present ap- 
pearances we have very little hopes of getting them placed to the account of 
the continent. 8 .... As there is now a Congress we shall attend par- 
ticularly to your request respecting the arms and give you information 
thereon in our next. 4 

588. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress. 

Feby. 16th, 1787. 
Sir, 

Your letter of Deer. 1st, 1786, containing the Act of Your Legislature 
for appointing deputies to meet in a convention of the States at Philadel- 
phia in May next has been duly reed, and is under the consideration of a 
grand committee. 2 

* See no. 553, ante. 

8 Bracketed words are written in cipher. 

8 He next discusses the situation as respects the coming convention. 
[587] x Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York (signed by Grayson and 
Madison). 

2 Madison first attended Feb. 12 (Monday), having arrived on the Saturday be: 
See no. 586, note 2, ante. On Feb. 10 he wrote to Mrs. Trist that a snow storm had de- 
layed his journey, that he had found Colonel Grayson better, although " still a prey 
to his own imagination" (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9503). 

8 See the Journals, July 28, 31, Aug. 2. 

4 See no. 564, ante, and no. 591, post. 
[588] l Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. Ill; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 244 (abstract). 

2 Governor Randolph's letter of Dec. 1 was read in Congress Feb. 3 and was prob- 
ably referred to the grand committee on the Annapolis Convention, although the letter 
is not mentioned in that committee's report, Feb. 21 (see also the Journals, Oct. II, 178ft, 
Feb. 12, 1787). Governor Randolph also transmitted the Virginia act to the several it 
executives. See, for instance, Randolph to Caswell Dec. 1, 6, 1786, in N. C. State 7\ 
XVIII. 792 (the act, Nov. 23, is ibid., p. 788). Caswell replied Jan. 7, transmitting a copy 
of the North Carolina act appointing deputies to the convention (ibid., XX. 600), and on 
Jan. 12 again wrote to Randolph transmitting a second copy (Va. State Lil>.. Executive 
Papers). Randolph's letter of Dec. 1 to the governors, together with the act < : 
is also in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 523-524- 



February, 1/8/ 541 

I have now the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
two copies of Intelligence communicated to Congress. 

No. 1. is an extract of a letter from a person in Kentucke to a Delegate 
for Pensylvania 

No. 2. is Intelligence reed, and communicated by a Delegate for North 
Carolina. 3 

Although they do not come duly authenticated, yet they are judged 
worthy of some notice and sufficient to ground an enquiry thereon ; And 
as they relate more immediately to Your commonwealth, and the citizens 
thereof, I have it in charge to transmit them to Your Excellency, that You 
may make such enquiry, and take such steps to put an immediate and effec- 
tual stop to these irregularities, if found to exist, which the representa- 
tion and peace of Your State and the honor and tranquility of the con- 
federacy may require 

589. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

\* rv -n ■ j New York 18 Feb. 1787. 

My D r Friend, '. ' 

.... We have Nine States represented, 2 and if I can form an opinion 
from so short an acquaintance with this new Assembly, I should not 
lament if their year was nearer its expiration than it is. I promise myself 
no good from their continueing together ; I fear Pennsylvania and Jersey 
will be entirely under a southern Influence, if so, I can conceive of no mis- 
chief to public Credit, in the settlement of accounts, and in the just claim 
of the states, which may not be apprehended. 

All the States south of this have appointed to the Convention, but the 
commissions, or authorities, seem to be different. I say have appointed; 
Five of them have appointed, and the other three undoubtedly will appoint. 

I will not venture a conjecture relative to the policy of the measure in 
Mass : the thing is so problematical, that I confess I am at some loss. I am 
rather inclined to the measure from an idea of prudence, or for the pur- 
pose of watching, than from an expectation that much Good will flow 
from it. 3 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 15. The extract of a letter from a person in Kentucky, 
who appears to have been General James Wilkinson, is in Col. Va. State Papers, IV. 202, 
with the date Dec. 12. It has been printed many times. The " intelligence .... communi- 
cated by a Delegate for North Carolina " is ibid., p. 189, with the date November — . Both 
extracts were widely printed in newspapers of the time. The extracts are in Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 49, ff. 323, 327. The copies transmitted by Secretary Thomson are with his 
letter in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

[589] x N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 215. 

2 From Feb. 12 to 16 William Samuel Johnson records in his diary that he was 
"at Congress"; on the 17th there was "No Cong's"; on the 18th (Sundav) he was at 
St. Paul's. 

8 Cf. nos. 562, 568, 585, ante, 627, post. With regard to King's probable change of 
mind respecting the proposed federal convention a letter from Stephen Higginson to Gen- 
eral Knox, Feb. 8 (Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, I. 745), is of interest, as it is in 
other respects an important contribution to pre-convention discussion. With regard to the 
action of the Massachusetts General Court respecting the Convention, see Higginson to 
Dane Mar. 3 (replying to a letter from Dane Feb. 14), ibid., p. 752. See further the motion 
of the Massachusetts delegates Feb. 21 (Journals), and no. 500, post. A letter from King 
to Thomas Dwight Feb. 18 respecting the situation in Massachusetts is in Hist. Soc. of 
Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



542 Continental Congress 

590. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

New York Feby. 18th 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress have received no late intelligence either from him 
[Mr. Jefferson] or Mr. Adams. Nor have any interesting measures yet 
taken place since they have been assembled in force. Those in expectation 
relate to I. The Mississ'pi. On this subject I have no information to give, 
not a word having passed concerning it since my arrival. 2. The treaty of 
peace. This subject is now depending in the form of a Report from 
Mr. Jay. I find what I was not before apprized of, that infractions on the 
part of the U. S. preceded in several instances even the violation on the 
other side in the instance of the Negroes. If Cong's should be able to 
agree on any measures for carrying the Treaty into execution, it seeing 
probable that the fundamental one will be a summons of the States to 
remove all legal impediments which stand at present in the way. There 
seems to be no reason to believe that G. B. will comply on any other con- 
ditions than those signified in the communication of Lord Carmarthen to 
Mr. Adams. 2 3. The proposed Convention in May. A great disagree- 
ment of opinion exists as to the expediency of a recommendation from 
Cong's to the backward States in favor of the meeting. It would seem as 
if some of the States disliked it because it is an extraconstitutional mea- 
sure, and that their dislike would be removed or lessened by a sanction 
from Cong's to it. On the other hand it is suggested that some would 
dislike it the more if Cong's should appear to interest themselves in it s 
.... 4. the troops raising under the authority of Cong's in Mass'ts. The 
prospect of a close to the turbulent scenes in that quarter has produced a 
motion for stopping the enlistments. The Delegates from the N. England 
States generally and from Mass'ts in particular are anxious that the motion 
should be suspended for a few weeks, that the influence of the military 
preparations of the U. S. may be continued in favor of their State Mea- 
sures, some of which are likely to be pretty vigorous, and to try the strength 
of their Govt.* It appears besides that the Ringleader of the insurrection 
has not been apprehended, and according to report, still harbours mischief. 
.... A very dismal account of Clarke's proceedings in the Western 
country has been informally laid before Congress, and will be forwarded 
to your department. If the information be well founded you will prob- 
ably receive a confirmation thro' other channels. 8 .... 

[590] r Library of Congress, Madison Papers ; Papers, II. 615. 

8 See the Journals, Oct. 13, 1786. A committee was appointed Oct. 16 on the re- 
port of the secretary for foreign affairs Oct. 13, renewed Feb. 12, 1787, and discharged 
Mar. 8. Cf. nos. 595, 614, 617, 634, 636, post. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 21 ; also nos. 585, 589, ante. The passage omitted relates 
to the instructions of the New York legislature to their delegates in Congress respecting 
the federal convention, and to the appointment of delegates to that convention. See nos. 
594, 595. 597, 599, post. 

4 See the Journals, Feb. 14, 16, 19, and Madison's Notes of Debates, Feb. 19 
(Journals, p. 719). 

5 See no. 588, ante. 



February, 1787 543 

591. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

N. York 19th Feby. 1787. 
Sir, 

.... We have applied to Genl. Knox respecting the arms ; but he has 
declined reporting to Congress even in favor of a sale : so that we have 
giv'n up all thoughts of procuring them from the Confederacy : 2 the 
Genl. has informed us, that Messrs. Cox and Frazer Merch'ts in Philada. 
have a quantity which are excellent in their kind, and which they will dis- 
pose of on very good terms. We therefore beg leave to suggest the pro- 
priety of your impowering Mr. Carrington to purchase the number wanted 
for the State : This he can easily accomplish on his return through Philada. 
to this place. 

Mr. King one of the delegates for Massachusets informs us the rebellion 
is nearly in the same situation as mentioned in our last :..... 



592. Stephen Mix Mitchell to the Committee of the Pay-Table. 1 

New York feby 20th 1787. 
Gentn., 

Your favor of the 9 ult was duly reed, with its enclosure, we have not 
as yet had an opportunity to present a Memorial touching the subject 
matter of your communication : most of the time since we have been here, 
no more than seven States have been present, altho we have nine on the 
floor at this time, we think our prospect of success in such an application 
unfavorable. 2 

It appears to me the Genl. assembly at their last session passed an act 
empowering their Delegates in Congress to apply to Congress in the Name 
and Behalf of the State, praying an allowance of the charges mentioned by 
you on the requisition of 1785. The copy of this act we need and have 
not as yet been favor'd favorably. 3 

I beg you to apply to the secretary for it and forward it as soon as pos- 
sible. Tis doubtful whether we shall understand this Business so well as 
we ought to and still more doubtful whether we shall be able to accom- 
plish the Desires of the State; if we can once bring the Treasury board 
into our views on the subject our courage will revive. 

I send by Mr. Fowler the journals for 86. No news worth 
communicating. 4 

I am gntn. with the highest respect and esteem your very humbl servt 

S. M. Mitchell 

[59 1 ] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson and Madison) ; Cat, Va. 
State Papers, IV. 244 (in part). 
2 See no. 587, ante. 
[592] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 

2 William Samuel Johnson records in his diary that he was " at Cong's " Feb. 19, 
20, and 21. From Feb. 22 to Mar. 15, inclusive, he was absent in Connecticut. 

3 The copy reads thus, but its correctness is questionable. 

4 The address is : " Committee of pay-Table Hartford favord by Mr. Fowler ". 



544 Continental Congress 

593. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 

Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 21. Feb. 1787. 
Sir, 

We received by the last post your Excellency's letter of the 9th instant * 
inclosing the papers therein referred to as explanatory of the proceedings 
of the general Court, and also your Excellency's other Letter inclosing a 
letter for the Governor of this State, which we immediately delivered." 

We shall as soon as possible communicate to Congress, the information, 
which the general Court have been pleased to direct us to lay before them : * 
and it affords us pleasure to inform your Excellency that we have rea- 
son to suppose that the Legislature of this State to whom the Governor 
thereof communicated your Excellency's Letter on the subject of the 
Proclamation, will order that business to be conducted in the most friendly 
manner, and entirely conformable to the wishes of the Government of 
Massachusetts. 

The secretary at war having ordered the Troops raised in Connecticut 
under the Resolutions of the 20th of Octr. last to repair to Springfield, 
for the protection of the federal magazine, and having authority likewise 
to direct those raised in Massachusetts to take post at the same place, 
(which he informs us he shall do so soon as Massachusetts shall make 
such provision, on the Credit of the Union, as will enable him to effect 
that Measure) we have thought it prudent under present Circumstances to 
rest satisfied with these Arrangements." 

594. James Mitchel Varnum to Benjamin (?) Bourn 

New york 2 1st February 1787. 
Sir, 

Newhampshire and Rhode Island not being represented in Congress, 
the influence of the Eastern States languishes extremely. This misfortune 
is the more to be lamented, as matters of the first magnitude will soon be 
in agitation. Particularly, the requisitions for the present year; the Treaty 

[593] * Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 669 (in the writing of King and signed by King 
and Dane). 

* Governor Bowdoin's letter of Feb. 9 to the delegates is not in Mass. Hist. Soc., 
Collections, seventh ser., VI., where numerous letters pertaining to the Shays insurrection 
are to be found (pp. 108-187). See Lincoln to Bowdoin Feb. 20 (ibid., p. 146) ; lift 
Hist. Ret>., II. 693-696. Cf. nos. 557-S6o, 575, 585, 500, 591, ante, 595, 597, 599, 604, 605, post. 

8 See Lincoln to Governor Clinton Feb. 21, in Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections. 
seventh ser., VI. 146, Bowdoin to Clinton Mar. 6, 15 (ibid., pp. 168, 171), and Bowdoin to 
the delegates Mar. 6, 11, 14, 15 (ibid., pp. 167, 169, 170, 172) ; also Bowdoin to the gov- 
ernors of New York, Connecticut, and Vermont, May 16, and to the delegates the same 
day (ibid., pp. 185, 186). Cf. nos. 609, 676, post. 

* The governor's speech to the two houses of the legislature, Feb. 3, the General 
Court's response, Feb. 4, and a declaration by the latter the same day, are spread upon the 
Journals Mar. 9. The governor's speech is also printed in Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 
seventh ser., VI. 159, dated only " Feb'y 1787 ' . The subsequent proclamation of the 
governor, Feb. 9, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 119. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 14, 16, 19; also no. 590, ante. Cf. no. 618, post. 
[594P Maine Hist. Soc., Revolution, no. 7. At the foot of the letter is merely "Mr. 
Bourne ". 



February, 1/8/ 545 

between the States and Great Britain, and the infractions charged by the 
British ministry ; 2 a decided and conclusive mode for finally settling the 
accounts of the respective States with the United States, 3 and several mat- 
ters of subordinate consideration. 

It seems to be a point almost decided to recommend to the States the 
sending of commissioners to meet in Convention at Philadelphia for the 
purpose of reforming the federal constitution. 4 Should that measure be 
adopted, we shall want all our influence to effect a speedy adjournment of 
Congress, which I am determined to urge with incessant importunity. 5 

You will be pleased to make my general communications known to our 
mutual Friends, if I may be allowed to consider you as the conduit of 
intelligence, For numerous correspondences are obviously dangerous. 

With sincerest affection to yourself and family, 

I have the honor of being etc. 

J M Varnum 

P. S. The recommendation is this moment adopted. 



595. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

New York Feby. 21, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

Some little time before my arrival here a quorum of the States was made 
up and Genl. Sinclair put in the Chair. We have at present nine States on 
the ground, but shall lose South Carolina today. 2 Other States are daily 
expected. What business of moment may be done by the present or a 
fuller meeting is uncertain. The objects now depending and most imme- 
diately in prospect, are 1. The Treaty of peace. The Secretary of foreign 
Affairs has very ably reported a view of the infractions on both sides, his 
exposition of the contested articles, and the steps proper to be taken by Con- 
gress. I find what I was not before apprized of that more than one infrac- 
tion on our part, preceded even the violation on the other side in the in- 
stance of the Negroes. Some of the reasoning on the subject of the debts 
would be rather grating to Virginia. A full compliance with the Treaty 
according to judicial constructions, and as a ground for insisting on a 
reciprocal compliance, is the proposition in which the Report terminates. 3 
2. a recommendation of the proposed Convention in May. Cong's have 
been much divided and embarrassed on the question whether their taking 
an interest in the measure would impede or promote it. On one side it has 

2 Cf. no. 590, ante, and no. 595, post. 

3 See no. 522, ante ; cf. no. 618, post. 

4 See the Journals. Feb. 21, and nos. 585, 589, 590, ante, 595, 597, 599, post. Varnum's 
letter was written before the passage of the act of Feb. 21. See the postscripts. 

5 Cf. no. 630, post . 

[595] l Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 162; Writings, II. 313; Papers, I. 276; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 73. 

2 See nos. 582, 583, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 590, ante, and no. 614, post. See also Jay to Adams Feb. 21, in Corre- 
spondence of Jay, III. 233. For a careful examination of the whole subject see A. C. 
McLaughlin, " The Western Posts and the British Debts ", in Am. Hist. Assoc., Annual 
Report, 1894, PP- 4I3-444- 



546 Continental Congress 

been urged that some of the backward States have scruples agst. acced- 
ing to it without some constitutional sanction: On the other that other 
States will consider any interference of Cong's as proceeding from the 
same views which have hitherto excited their jealousies. 4 A vote of the 
Legislature here entered into yesterday will give some relief in the case. 
They have instructed their delegates in Cong's to move for the recom- 
mendation in question. 8 The vote was carried by a majority of one only 
in the Senate, and there is room to suspect that the minority were actu- 
ated by a dislike to the substance rather than by any objections agst. the 
form of the business. A large Majority in the other branch a few days ago 

put a definitive veto on the Impost Nothing has yet been done by 

the New Cong's with regard to the Mississippi. Our latest information 
from Mass'ts gives hopes that the mutiny or as the Legislature there now 
style it, the Rebellion is nearly extinct. If the measures however on foot 
for disarming and disfranchising those concerned in it should be carried 
into effect, a new crisis may be brought on. I have not been here long 
enough to gather the general sentiments of leading characters touching 
our affairs and prospects. I am inclined to hope that they will gradually 
be concentered in the plan of a thorough reform of the existing system. 
Those who may lean towards a Monarchial Govt, and who I suspect are 
swayed by very indigested ideas, will of course abandon an unattainable 
object whenever a prospect opens of rendering the Republican form com- 
petent to its purposes. 9 Those who remain attached to the latter form must 
soon perceive that it can not be preserved at all under any modification 
which does not redress the ills experienced from our present establishments. 
Virginia is the only State which has made any provision for the late 
moderate but essential requisition of Cong's and her provision is a partial 
one only 

596. Abraham Clark to James Mott. 1 

Sir Febry 24th 1787. 

When I wrote to you I expected the County Collector of Essex had 
public money in his hands which I could draw as I had Occasion ; but find- 
ing he hath paid all into the Treasury I have no prospects remaining of 
getting any of him ; and as I am at the expense of sending to the Treasury 
it is necessary that I receive my Account forwarded, otherwise this Ex- 
pense would be frequently reduced, I hope therefore the Acct. will be 
answered as I am now at a Stand having Spent nearly the sum now called 
for, in my attendance at N. York. 2 

* Cf. no. 590, ante, and nos. 597, 603, 622, 649, post. See also Madison's Notes of 
Debates, Feb. 21 (Journals, p. 7 2 3)- 

8 Cf. nos. 500, 594, <"*''. 597. 599. 603. 608, 613, 619, post. 

* See no. 495, note 3, ante, and nos. 597, 606, post. See also Madison's remarks, in 
his Notes of Debates Feb. 21, respecting Bingham's avowal in favor of several confederacies 
and also respecting the suspicion of " anti republican " sentiment among the Eastern mem- 
bers. Cf. nos. 455, 463, 466, 477, 496, ante. 

[596] » N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9353. 

2 Qark's account, rendered Mar. 6, 1787, for attendance upon the Annapolis Con- 
vention Sept. 1 to 21 (80 dollars), is ibid., no. 9354. 



February, 1787 547 

597. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton. 1 

New York, Feby. 24, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 The only step of moment taken by Cong's, since my arrival has 
been a recommendation of the proposed meeting in May for revising the 
federal articles. Some of the States, considering this measure as an extra 
constitutional one, had scruples agst. concurring in it without some regu- 
lar sanction. By others it was thought best that Cong's should remain 
neutral in the business, as the best antidote for the jealousy of an ambitious 
desire in them to get more powers into their hands. This suspense was at 
length removed by an instruction from this State to its delegates to urge 
a Recommendatory Resolution in congress which accordingly passed a few 
days ago. 3 .... In general I find men of reflection much less sanguine 
as to the new than despondent as to the present System. Indeed the Pres- 
ent System neither has nor deserves advocates; and if some very strong 
props are not applied will quickly tumble to the ground. No money is paid 
into the public Treasury; no respect is paid to the federal authority. Not 
a single State complies with the requisitions, several pass them over in 
silence, and some positively reject them. The payments ever since the 
peace have been decreasing, and of late fall short even of the pittance nec- 
essary for the Civil list of the Confederacy. It is not possible that a Gov- 
ernment can last long under these circumstances. 4 If the approaching con- 
vention should not agree on some remedy, I am persuaded that some very 
different arrangement will ensue. The late turbulent scenes in Mass'ts and 
infamous ones in Rhode Island, have done inexpressible injury to the re- 
publican character in that part of the U. States ; and a propensity towards 
Monarchy is said to have been produced by it in some leading minds. 5 The 

[597] 1 Writings, II. 316; Papers, I. 278; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 82. 

2 The omitted passage pertains to the presumed termination of the Massachusetts 
insurrection. See nos. 585, 590, 591, 593, 595, ante. 

8 Journals, Feb. 21. Cf. nos. 590, 594, 595, ante, 599, 603, 604, 613, 617, 619, post ; 
also Madison to Randolph Feb. 25 (Papers, II. 619). The act of Congress Feb. 21 was 
transmitted to the states by the secretary the same day, with a brief covering letter (Sec- 
retary's Letter-Book, p. 114; Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
XI. 121 ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 614). 

4 Cf. no. 509, past ; also Madison to Randolph Feb. 25, cited in note 3, above. 
6 Cf. nos. 495 (note 3), 595, ante, and no. 606, post. A communication, probably 
written about this time, which Lord Dorchester transmitted (from Quebec) to Lord Sydney 
Apr. 10, 1787, although it should probably be well sprinkled with salt, nevertheless affords 
evidence that there was much talk at this time of establishing a monarchy, whatever may 
have been the strength of sentiment in favor of it. The communication, which was probably 
from the hand of John Connolly, who appears to have been spying out the country (see 
no. 960, post), is found in the Report on Catwdian Archives .... 1890, pp. 97-99. Fol- 
lowing are the pertinent parts of the document : 

.... "At this moment there is not a gentleman in the States from New Hampshire to 
Georgia, who does not view the present Government with contempt, who is not convinced 
of its inefficacy, and who is not desirous of changing it for a monarchy. 

" They are divided into three classes. 

" The first class proposes a federal Government somewhat resembling the Constitution of 
the State of New York, with an annual Executive, Senate, and House of Assembly. 

" The second wish to have a sovereign for life with two triennial Houses of Parliament. 

" The third are desirous of establishing an Hereditary Monarchy with a form of Govern- 
ment as nearly resembling Great Britain as possible. 

" Of the first class many look up to General Washington; those of the second and third 



548 Continental Congress 

bulk of the people will probably prefer the lesser evil of a partition of the 
Union into three more practicable and energetic Governments. The latter 
idea I find after long confinement to individual speculations and private 
circles, is beginning to shew itself in the Newspapers. But tho' it is a 
lesser evil, it is so great a one that I hope the danger of it will rouse all 
the real friends of the Revolution to exert themselves in favor of such an 
organization of the confederacy, as will perpetuate the Union, and redeem 
the honor of the Republican name 

598. The North Carolina Delegates to the Board of Treasury. 1 

~ Al New York 24th Feby 1787. 

Gentlemen, T * ' ' 

We enclose herewith an extract from an act of our Legislature passed 

at their last session: And we request the favour of the Board of Treasury 

to give us their Opinion on the following Queres. First. What plan is the 

most eligible for the Delegates to adopt in the sale of the Tobacco so as to 

ensure a payment and at the highest price that can be had for the same ? 

Second. In what manner the nett proceeds can be carried to the credit of 

our State in accompt with the United States in discharge of the interest 

of the foreign debt due by the United States." 

classes cast their eyes to the House of Hanover for a Sovereign, they wish for one of the 
King's Sons. 

" The third class is the most powerful, and composed of some of the ablest men in the 
States. 

" They esteem the plan of the first class every way inadequate, that of the second in 
favour of an Elective Monarchy, very objectionable, . . . they have already fixed upon two 
gentlemen to go to Great Britain upon this subject, when they judge that matters are rii>e 
for it. 

"As to the Convention to be held in Philadelphia in May next In fact the Gentle- 
men composing the third class expect nothing from the Convention in their public capacity, 
but wish to profit from such a meeting, to know fully each others opinions, to form arrange- 
ments and to take such steps as are proper to give them effect 

" The Gentlemen of the third class .... are resolved to run all risks in carrying their 
points. 

" Even the Presbyterian Clergy are become Advocates for Monarchy, the community in 
general finding from experience, that a Republican System however beautiful in theory, is 
not calculated for an extensive country. 

" General Washington has been lately sounded upon the subject, but nothing will induce 
him to return into public life; .... 

" Notwithstanding this opinion concerning General Washington, there is another which 
suggests that this Gentleman looks forward to the supreme power, and that he will not be 
present at the convention from motives of policy, and that Doctor Griffiths, of Virginia. 
who is soon going to England, in hopes of being consecrated a Bishop, had been employed 
by him to sound the country on this very subject. 

" From other sources of information it is understood that men of ability in the St 
are in general strongly impressed with the necessity of establishing a Monarchy ; they 
find their present Government neither efficient nor respectable; they are greatly divided in 
opinion upon this subject, whether they shall raise an American to this dignity, or procure 
a Sovereign from Great Britain or from France. . . 

" Some gentlemen are so convinced of the necessity of having an Upper House as well 
as a Sovereign, that they intend the proposing to raise all the Members, who formed the 
Congress of one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five to this dignity, and even to make 
it hereditary." .... 

[598] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm. (copy) ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 620. The names of Hawkins 
and Blount are, in both instances, appended. 

2 The extract of an act of the assembly, which had been transmitted by John Gray 
Blount (see no. 584, ante) is in N. C. State Recs.. XX. 621. The board replied in part on 
Feb. 28 (ibid., p. 624). and more specifically on Mar. 14 (ibid., p. 635). See also Caswell 



February, 1787 549 

599. James Madison to James Monroe. 1 

N. York Feby. 25, 1787. 
Dear orr, 

I have received your favor of the 5th inst. and have attended to the sev- 
eral objects suggested in it 

We have nothing very interesting of late from Mass'ts. Rewards are 
offered for Shays and the other leaders of the mutiny by Govr. Bowdoin, 
and in consequence of intimations that they were directing their course and 
incendiary views to this state, by Governor Lincoln [ji'c]. 2 

Cong's have at length passed a Resolution in favor of the convention. 
The difficulties were in some measure got over by an instruction from the 
Legislature of N. Y. to its delegates to move for such an interposition. 
N. York of course will app't deputies, and there is reason to expect that 
Mass'ts and perhaps Connecticut also will appoint. 3 

600. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

N York. 26th Feby. 1787. 
Sir, 

We are sorry to inform you, that we have inquired at the board of trea- 
sury respecting the indents of interest necessary for the State under the 
requisition of the last year, and that the Comm'rs have informed us that 
from the uncertainty of the productiveness of the funds appropriated by 
the legislature as a compliance, they were doubtful whether they could with 
propriety issue them at all, but that at any rate they could not be ready 
in a month or six weeks from this time ; so that there seems to be but little 
hopes that they can be thrown into circulation during the collection of the 
taxes. 2 

A Mr. Huff from Winchester has farmed the exclusive priviledge of 
transporting the Mail from Alexandria to Pittsburgh for seven years 
and from Winchester to Staunton. On supposition that the same person 

to Robert Rowan Feb. 28 (ibid., p. 624), Rowan's reply Mar. 15 (ibid., p. 638), and nos. 
601, 611, 612, 615, post. 

[599] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 Madison wrote " Lincoln " inadvertently for Clinton. Cf. his letter to Pendleton 
Feb. 24 (passage omitted from no. 597, ante). In a letter to his father the same day Madison 
wrote : " The success of Genl. Lincoln agst. the insurgents has corresponded with the 
hopes of the Government. It is still said notwithstanding that there remains a great deal of 
leven in the mass of the people. Connecticut has. not caught the fermentation but she pays 
no taxes. Cong's reed, a letter a few days ago from the Governor of that State inclosing a 
non-complyance of the assembly with the requisitions of Cong's. In fact payments to the 
federal Treas'y are ceasing evefy where, and the minds of people losing all confidence in our 
political system " (Library of Congress, Madison Papers ; Letters, I. 280). Cf. no. 597, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 575, 590, 595, 597, ante, 627, 632, 635, 639, post. In a letter to Randolph 
Feb. 25 Madison adds : " The style of the instruction makes it probable that it was the wish 
of this State to have a new Convention instituted, rather than the one on foot recognized. 
Mass'ts seemed also skittish on this point. Connecticut opposed the interposition of Cong's 
altogether. The Act of Cong's is so expressed as to cover the proceedings of the states 
which have already provided for the Convention without any pointed recognition of them " 
(Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 619; Elliot, Debates, V. 106). 

[600] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (with the signatures, " Will'm Grayson, James 
Maddisson") ; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 248 (extract). 
2 See nos. 622, 671. 701, post. 



550 Continental Congress 

would also contract for the road from Richmond to Staunton we applied 
to Congress for a resolution to impower the Post M'r Genl. to farm the 
transportation of the Mail on this rout for the same period, which has been 
obtained. 8 

The Secretary of Congress has informed us he has forwarded the reso- 
lution of Congress recommending a Convention of the States on the sec- 
ond Munday in May next at the City of Philada. 4 



601. The North Carolina Delegates to the Board of Treasury. 1 
^ , incess Street, ist March, 1787. 

We have no regular information respecting the State of Tobacco; and 
it is probable our want of it is owing to the returns having been made to 
the Delegates of the State who were in Congress last year, and which has 
been carried to North Carolina among their papers. 

The enclosed from Mr. Dowse we give credit to ourselves, subjoining 
the following remarks. 2 .... 



602. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

c .. N. York March 5th, 1787. 

We have the honor of inclosing a copy of Mr. Van Berkel's note to Con- 
gress respecting an act of the legislature of the State of Virginia, which he 
has represented to be contrary to the treaty of Amity and commerce be- 
tween the United Netherlands and the United States of America: This 
Note is referred to the Secy, for foreign Affairs to report with't their 
having yet given any opinion on the subject. 2 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 15. 

4 See no. 593, note 2, ante. On Feb. 26 the Virginia delegates laid before Congress 
a resolution of the House of Delegates Nov. 8 (Senate concurrence Nov. 22) for a con- 
vention of delegates of Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania to regulate import duties. 
This was referred to a committee Mar. 1, a report was presented Mar. 13. and was 
negatived May 8. See nos. 622, 640, 654, 656, post. The resolution is also in Pa. Arch.. 
first ser., XI. 525, with a letter of transmittal from Governor Randolph to President 
Franklin Dec. 1. 

[601] 1 N. C. State Recs., XX. 626 (signed by Blount and Hawkins). 

2 The delegates are replying to a letter from the board of treasury Feb. 28 {ibid., 
p. 624). The enclosure was a letter from Edward Dowse, Feb. 28, in reply to an inquiry 
from Blount the same day as to the quantity of tobacco in storage and where (ibid., p. ( 
The remarks (here omitted) are upon the places of storage, the quantity, qumlitj 
no. 598, ante, and nos. 611, 612, 615, post. 

On Mar. 1 Secretary Thomson addressed a brief letter to the states, transmitting " a 
state of representation in Congress for the months of Deer., Jany. and Febry. to be com- 
municated to the Legislature" (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 114; Pa. Arch., first 
XI. 122; N. C. State Recs., XX. 631). The " State of Representation" for Deceml 
ibid., p. 632, and will be found under the List of Members, ante. 

[602] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson and Madison). 

2 Van Berckel's letter and note, dated Feb. 20, were laid before Congress Mar. i, 
with a letter of the secretary for foreign affairs dated Feb. 26. They were referred to the 
secretary to report, and his report, dated Mar. 14, was presented Mar. 15. The Van 
Berckel communications are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 437-439, and Jay's 



March, 1787 551 

The affair of the Missisippi still remains in the same critical situation 
in which it was left the last year; and their having been sev'l changes 
in the delegations, it is not known whether those States who favored its 
preservation the last Congress will still adhere to the same sentiments. 
It appears that only three States have expressly instructed their delegates 
as yet on this subject. 3 

603. William Irvine to James Wilson. 1 

New York March 6th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I promised myself the pleasure of writing to you, when any thing 
interesting should be likely to take place, there has been hitherto so little 
prospect of any thing being done in Congress that I have frequently been 
almost determined to return home, but have spun out the time from 
day to day still in expectation that every succeeding day would bring on 
a full house, all in vain, we have had about one week in this year, nine 
States on the floor, but most of the time not even seven, you know under 
these circumstances what can possibly be done, at a favourable moment 
either Delaware or Maryland, being represented would have carried 
Congress to Philadelphia Now South Carolina is off the floor, it therer 
fore requires the attendance of both the former, and Col : Forrest will 
set out in a few days as none of the other Delegates of Maryland are 
likely soon to attend he thinks it vain to wait. I almost despair of so 
good an opportunity presenting for some time as I believed this to be. 
I regret it the more as I am persuaded, Congress and the Convention 
sitting at the same time and place, might facilitate the business of the 
Convention, a free communication of Sentiments would be usefull to both 
these bodies, particularly as it might have a tendency to cause the Con- 
vention to propose such new articles of confederation, or alterations in 
the old, as Congress might probably approve, which would doubtless 
have weight with the several Legislatures. 2 

It was with some difficulty Congress carried the recommendation for a 
Convention, the Eastern Delegates were all much against the measure, 
indeed I think they would never have come into it, but that they saw it 
would be carried without them, then they Joined, which has made it a 
piece of patch work, but this was thought better than to keep up the 
smallest appearance of opposition to public view. 3 

Inclosed you have the agreement between N York and Massachusetts, 
it speaks for itself. But I have conversed with the Commissioners, who 

report is ibid., pp. 439-442. The secretary's report was referred to a committee Aug. 2, a 
report made Sept. 24, and action was taken by Congress Oct. 13. See nos. 613, 614, 622, 
639, 746, post. 

3 See nos. 561 (note 3), 562, 500, ante, 604, 605, 614, 617, post. The three States 
were Virginia, North Carolina, and New Jersey. 

[603] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia (addressed, "The Hon'ble Jas. Wilson Esqr."). 

2 See nos. 582, 583, ante, 605, 612, 630, 636, 637, 639, 642, 643, 656, 66i, post. 

3 See nos. 590, 594, 595, 597, 599, ante. 



552 Continental Congress 

insist that the Cession of N York to the United States does not preclude 
them from claiming as far West as Pennsylvania. 4 

I am Dear Sir 

Your Obedient Humble Servant 

Wm. Irvine 

604. Benjamin Hawkins to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New- York 8th March 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have had within a few days the pleasure to receive your favor of the 
13th august. 2 It was received at the office of Foreign affairs in Novr. 
and has been traveling since southwardly and Northwardly to meet 
with me 8 

We are not here in so profound a calm, as in Europe, the uneasinesses 
which have existed in Massachusets for some time past grow into a 
serious opposition to that Government, and they are now by the vigorous 
though not timely opposition of the government but in train of adjust- 
ment. The Southern States are more tranquil and are emerging fast into 
order : and if the Foederal Government can be made efficient the revolution 
will be a blessing to them. Virginia taking the lead for this most desirable 
object proposed a convention to be in may next at Philadelphia. North 
Carolina and some other States have followed her example and Congress 
on the 2 1 st. of February recommended it to all as the most probable 
meanfs] of establishing a firm national Government. 4 

Spain availing herself of probable conjecture bids far [sic'] to be the first 
power who will strengthen our bonds of Union, unmindful of her true 
interest, she seems determined to oppose her partial contraccted [sic] 
policy, to that generous reciprocity of mutual good offices, which being 
the basis of our friendship would be a never failing guarantee to both 
nations. She has seized some of our boats on the Mississipi and refuses 
us absolutely the navigation thereof. Our citizens view this as an in- 
fraction of their rights: The States of Virginia, North Carolina, New 

4 See no. 549, note 2, ante. Following is Irvine's statement of account for attendance 
to Feb. 1 (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.) : 

" The State of Pennsylvania to Wm. Irvine Dr. 

To fifty nine days attendance at Congress 

Vis from the 4th Deer. 1786 to the 1st Febry. 1787 inclusive £132.15.00 

New York February 1st 1787 Errors excepted 

Wm Irvi- 

The statement bears the following endorsements: " Ex'd and Settled. J no. Nicholson. 
Compt'r Genl's Office. Febry. 3d 1787"; "No. 2745. Account of The Hon'ble William 
Irvine Esqr. Delegate for his Attendance in Congress. Feby. 3d 1787"; and "Read in 
Council. Febry. 8th 1787 approved and order drawn. Jas. Trimble, for J Armstrong, 

[604] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; N. C. Hist. Rev., XII. 254 (July, 1935). 

'Jefferson's letter of Aug. 13 to Hawkins is in Library of Congress, Jefferson 
Papers (press copy). 

B The omitted passage pertains to the transmission of plants, of a " little vo- 
cabulary of the Cherokee and Choctaw tongues", and other information relating to 
those tribes. See his letters to Jefferson June 14, 1786, and June 9, 1787, in N. C\ Hist. 
Rev., XII. 252, 257. Cf. Madison to Washington Mar. 18, Writings, II. 320. 

« See nos. 562, 568, 585, 589, 590, 594, 595, 597, 599, ante, 608, 613, 617, 619, post. 



Afarch, 1787 553 

Jersey and some others have expressed it in strong terms, the words of 
North Carolina are " That their delegates be instructed to oppose in the 
most unequivocal terms any attempt that may be made to barter or 
surrender to any Nation the right of this State to the free and common 
Navigation of the Mississipi, and in case any such surrender should 
take place, that they should be instructed to protest against the same, as an 
unjust deprevation of the right of this State, and one which Congress 
are not authorized to make by the articles of confederation ". 5 

This arose from this additional circumstance [seven states'] only 
[counting from the east have repealed the article in favor of the Missis- 
sippi in the instructions to] Mr. [Jay and he] is now at full liberty to 
[shut up or not the Mississippi] and he appears to me to approve of it for 
the [period of twenty years]. Should this take place, I know not what 
consequences may ensue. Our western citizens will feel much alarmed for 
their situation. They will have less [confidence in the justice of Congress] 
and be disposed to [carve] for [themselves] . they are already numerous 
and daily increasing. For a [violation of a treaty Congress would be 
immediately responsible] and probably our western citizens might [skir- 
mish for some years without bringing about an open rupture and within 
eight or ten we would be able to support our right whatever be done. 
You may eventually be able to do something]. 6 If the French court had 
the Floridas and would establish an entrepot at New-Orleans or some 
other place equally convenient on a liberal scale, it would certainly be of 
the first consequence to them, in a commercial point of view, as we 
should consume their manufactures principally, in return for the raw 
materials which we could supply them with in abundance. With Spain 
something could be done if we had a man of great abilities and prudence 
at Madrid there to treat; here I am sure we have nothing to hope as I 
conjecture Mr. Gardoqui has duped himself and consequently given such 
an impression of things here as to lead his court to be very sanguine in 
their expectations. And [he does not appear to me to be a man of a 
noble mind enough to acknowledge further error] and to give that true 
complexion which he has certainly learnt to discover. 

I have used the cypher of our friend Mr. Madison, He, expecting 
shortly an opportunity more certain than the present, postpones writing 
untill then and he presents you his most respectful compliments. Your 
acquaintance Mr. Nash is dead and I am in Congress in his stead. 

605. Arthur St. Clair to Thomas FitzSimons. 1 

r. ~. New York March 10th 1787. 

Dear Sir, ' ' 

As the Business of the Missisippi, and consequently the Treaty with 

Spain is, I see likely to be agitated in the Assembly, I have taken the 

Liberty to give you an Abstract, as well as I can recollect, of what 

5 The North Carolina act was passed Jan. 5. See N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 456. 
Respecting the seizures alluded to, see the Journals, Mar. 30, Apr. 13, and no. 640, post. 

6 See nos. 443, 457, 463, 477, 496, 5«7, 5*9, 561, 562, 590, 602, ante, 605, 608, 614, 617, 
625, 636, 639, 640, post ; also the Journals, Apr. 13. 

[605] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Provincial Delegates, IV. 113; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., 
XXIII. 121. 



554 Continental Congress 

passed on that Subject in another Place ; 2 not that I presume to furnish 
you with any new Ideas, or that I am insensible of the impropriety of 
divulging the Substance of Debates where Secrecy is enjoined. It is in 
my opinion a very improper thing to bring matters of general national 
Import before the individual Legislatures, and is very rarely done, I 
believe, but where single Men conceive some object of immediate Interest 
to themselves may be affected, and which they are inclined to pursue 
without much regard to the public good, and I take this to be very much 
the Case in the present Instance. It is realy a sort of Apeal to the People, 
who have Passions only to be roused, and no reason to be convinced or 
Judgment to be directed. It may be some excuse for myself that I know 
that Communications on this subject have been made, and expressly with 
that view, to leading Men in some of the States, and have reason to 
believe that the same is done or doing by one, if not two of my Colleagues 
to Members of your house, and it appears to me to be proper that if one 
Side of a Picture is to be shewn, it should be presented on the other side 

also 8 There seems to be a spirit of Madness gone forth amongst 

the People that nothing but some severe calamity I fear will restrain. The 
Massachusetts Insurrection seems to be quelled, but it is certain the 
Discontents still prevail and it may well be doubted wether the disqualify- 
ing so many People, till the next general Election shall be over, was very 
prudent or at all likely to remove them. We still want one State more 
from the Southward to carry the removal from this place and have not a 
prospect of having it soon, as Maryland will not be here at all until a 
new appointment takes place, after the meeting of their Legislature.* 

2 The abstract of proceedings is not with the letter. See no. 604, ante. 

8 A brief passage relative to the removal of the Pennsylvania capital is here omitted. 

4 Cf. no. 603, note 2, ante. A few days later St. Clair presented to the comptroller 
the following statement of account for attendance at Congress (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz 
Coll., M. O. C.) : 

" The State of Pennsylvania to Arthur St. Clair Dr. 

for his Service in Congress from the 15th day of Janr. to the 15th day of 

March inclusive 60 Days at Dollars pr day D'rs 360 

£135.0.0" 

The word " inclusive " and the conversion into pounds are emendations of the comp- 
troller's office. The statement also bears the following customary endorsements : " Ex'd 
and Settled Jno. Nicholson Compt'r Gen'ls Office March 19th 1787 " ; " No. 2551. The 
Accot. of The Hbn'le Arthur St. Clair Esqr. for his pay as a Delegate of Congress " ; and 
" Read in Council June 2nd 1786 [1787] approved and an order drawn James Trimble for 
J Armstrong jr. S'y". 

On Feb. 13 St. Clair wrote to John Nicholson, the comptroller, with regard to his 
financial affairs (see Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 477), and on Mar. to M wrote an 
almost pathetic letter to the council respecting their resolution " requiring all officers who 
have public monies in their hands forthwith to pay up their respective Ballanccs ". and 
arguing against a certain injustice in the requirement as it affected himself. " It is pecui 
unfortunate ", he added, " that at this time I am confined to this City ; if I could be only a 
few Days at Philad'a, I have reason to believe I could accomplish the payment, at least do 
something toward it from my own Funds, which I certainly would tho' at a great loss. 
There is, however, a probability that I shall go there" (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 127). 
St. Clair was auctioneer for the city of Philadelphia (see ibid., X. 205, 209, 261), and the 
funds he was called upon to pay were in consequence of that office. The immediate outcome 
was the appointment of another as auctioneer in his place. General St. Clair having been 
" advanced to a high station by the U. S." (ibid., XI. 128 n.). See Pa. Col. Recs., XV. 183, 
104, 197. 



March, ij8j 555 

606. Rufus King to the Virginia Delegates 
(James Madison and William Grayson). 1 

Extract of a Letter from a Gentleman in Boston of the 4th March 1787, 
to R King — 

" — has come back from Virginia with News that the Commis- 
sioners on the part of New York alarmed the Virginia Delegates, with an 
account that the Commissioners on the part of Massachusetts were for a 
Monarchy, and that those Delegates wrote their Legislature of it, who 
shut their Galaries and made a most serious Business of the Matter, pray 
let me know by the next post what vou hear of this, and what has been 
said." 

the Commissioners alluded to, are those who settled the late Territorial 
controversy between Massachusetts and New York. 

Mr. King presents his compliments to Col. Grayson and Mr. Madison, 
and for the Satisfaction of his friend, who wrote the Letter, from which 
the above is an Extract, begs to be informed whether they have any 
Knowledge of a Letter written by the Delegates of Virginia or any of 
them, containing the information suggested in the Extract, or of any 
proceedings of the Virginia Legislature of the nature alledged. 

Mr. K. intreats Col. Grayson and Mr. Madison to have the Goodness 
to excuse the Freedom of this note, and hopes that they will be assured 
that nothing wd. have authorised this Enquiry except the anxiety of a 
worthy Gentlemen [sic~\ rendered uneasy by the foregoing charge. 2 

Monday Morn'g II, Mar. 1787. 



607. James Madison and William Grayson to Rufus King. 1 

N york March nth, 1787. 
Mr. M. and Mr. Grayson present their compl'ts to Mr. King and beg 
leave to inform him that the doors of the Assembly of Virginia were 
shut on a letter from Col. Carrington and Col. Lee, which Mr. Grayson 
saw but did not sign for reasons irrelative to the present subject. Mr. M. 
was in the Legislature at the time and knows the cause was very different 
from the one mentioned to Mr. King. Both of them are satisfied that no 
such information was contained in the letter from the before mentioned 
gentleman or as far as they know or believe in any other written by them 
or any other person to the Legislature of Virginia. 2 

[606] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See the reply, no. 607, post. Cf. nos. 495, 539, 595, 597, ante. 
[607] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 This note is in reply to King's inquiry of the same day (no. 606, ante). 



42 



556 Continental Congress 

608. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

N. York March 1 ith 1787. 
My dear friend, 

. . . . 2 Nothing has been yet done in the principal business before 
Congress, and I fear the number of States will not increase so far as to 
be competent to it. The Negociations with Spain are carried on if they 
go on at all entirely behind the curtain. The business has been put into 
such a form that it rests wholly with Jay how far he will proceed with 
Guardoqui and how far he will communicate with Congress. The in- 
structed States are hence under some embarrassment. They cannot 
demand information of right they are unwilling by asking it of favour 
to risk a refusal and they cannot resort to the present thin Cong's with 
any hope of success. Should Cong's become pretty full and Pennsylvania 
follow N. C. Virga. and N. Jersey, in giving instructions, the case may 
be altered. 8 

[P. S.] We have just agreed that the delegates here shall in future 
write individually and in rotation to the Executive. You will please to 
consider this which I had written before the rule was fixed as a private 
letter, in the light of a public one so far as it may deserve communication 
to the Board, not however depositing it among their public papers. 

609. Nathan Dane to Thomas Dwight. 1 

New York March 12. 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I will thank [you] to convey the inclosed to Mr. Sedgwick by some care- 
ful hand, it gives me much pleasure to find that peace and order are, in a 
great degree, restored in your part of the Country, and particularly on 
your Account, and that of many others of my friends. I believe much, 
however, is to be done yet, to render peace and order permanent ; and to 
give health and vigor to our republic, it is not sufficient that the political 
condition of men should, in fact, be good and eligible; but they must la- 
made to esteem it so. I hope the Government and it's friends will, with 
the eye of dispassionate reason, veiw the commonwealth; and the pro- 
gressive effect of public measures. I should be very sorry to see frail 
numbers of our people moving to Canada, etc. it would much effect [«'c] 
the Strength and honor of the United States, but I fear such an event, 
great encouragement is given by the British Government to tempt them to 
do it, the British are very busy on our frontiers, and our frontier In- 
habitants from New Hampshire to Georgia in my opinion will give us 
much trouble in a few years if we do not treat and govern them with 
much prudence and good policy. 2 

T608] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 620; Elliot, Debates, V. 106. 

2 An omitted passage relates to appointments to the federal convention. 

8 See nos. 500, 595, 507, 599. 604, ante, and the Journals, Apr. 13. 
[609] ' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll.. M. O. C. 

2 Cf. King to Gerry Feb. II, 18 (Life of King, I. 201, 215) and no. 605, ante. 



March, 1787 557 

Pray how stand affairs in Vermont — is it supposed in your part of the 
Country that the people of that State are desirous of coming into the 
Confederacy? New York has it in Contemplation to move for their 
admission in the Confederacy, and an acknowledgment of their independ- 
ance so Mr. Hamilton made a motion to day in the House of Representa- 
tives of this State (N. York) to that effect, this motion is to be considered 
to morrow, the best informed men in this State appear to be in favor of 
the motion, and I believe the Eastern people in General. 3 

I find that our people have had some suspicions relative to the Conduct 
of N. York as to our rebels, they are ill founded — the Govern't of N. 
York has acted with promptitude and generosity and has manifested a 
laudable anxiety for the preservation of the Government of a Sister State 
and I believe the people also. 4 the other States will do the same, if 
R. Island be not an exception. 

the people of Maryland have very generally joined with the Senate of 
that State in opposing the emission of paper money proposed by the 
house of Delegates headed by Chase, Paca and some other wicked and 
popular leaders, the reasons the Senate and people gave were just — " that 
tho they had many difficulties they could not expect to remove them by 
emitting paper money, that it would only tend to encrease them by encour- 
aging idleness and discouraging industry ". this turn of affairs in Mary- 
land we must consider as fortunate — evidence that the people possess 
just ideas 

few things happen here out of the Common Course, and we all dear 
Sir, look for information from the part of the Country you live in. if 
you can find a leisure hour I must request the favor that you will continue 
to inform us of such things as may happen and which you may think of 
importance etc. 



610. James Mitchel Varnum to the Secretary at War 
(Henry Knox). 1 

Sir, 

Your report upon the motion of Colo. Graison was read this day in 
Congress. Your own feelings are only capable of realising my satisfaction 
upon the occasion. It was perfect! I called a second reading, and a 
decision. The Colo, answered, that it was usual to postpone the considera- 
tion of a report, for deliberation. I answered him, that the statement of 
facts and observations in the report having devoured his motion, we 

3 See nos. 613, 635, 639, post. 

4 See the correspondence with Governor Clinton, also the letters from Bowdoin to 
the delegates, mentioned under no. 593, note 3, ante. Bowdoin's letter of Mar. 11 to King 
and Dane acknowledged a letter from the delegates dated Mar. 4, transmitting a resolve 
of the New York legislature, " requesting Govr. Clinton to call out a body of their militia 
to co-operate with ours in suppressing the insurgents" (Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, 
seventh ser., VI. 169). 

T6IO] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Generals and Officers of the Revolution, p. 86. 



558 Continental Congress 

expected, from his good sense and candor, a Retraction. He said, Congress 
is not full : Nor will it ever be, for so visionary a purpose ! 2 
I am yours most sincerely 

J. M. Varncm 
Tuesday 13 March, 1787. 

611. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York March 14th 1 787. 
Sir, 

The Delegates of North Carolina are just now offered for the Public 
Tobacco by Constable Rucker and Co. three dollars and one third of a dol- 
lar per Cwt. payable in such Bills on Holland as the Board of Treasury 
will rece[i]ve as a payment from the State and as they will apply to the 
Payment of the Interest due on the Dutch Loan in June next. One Condi- 
tion is that the Tobacco shall be reinspected under the Eye of an Agent of 
the Purchasers by some one or more of the North Carolina Inspectors. 
Another is that 30,000 dollars shall be advanced by the Purchasers on 
Closing the Contract otherwise the June Interest can't be provided for in 
Time. It is my opinion at present that the Delegation ought to accept the 
offer and I believe will and if they do Vessels will be immediately sent 
from hence to the different ports to rece[i] ve it. 2 

The Delegation will probably be able to write more fully by tomorrows 
Post. 

612. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

New york March 14th 1787. 

The inclosed Letter serves to show the state of the Tobacco please for- 
ward it after sealing it with a Wafer. 2 I have not spoke to C and R and 
Co. to purchase any part of it but depend on geting 100 Hogsheads at the 
same price. The Tobacco being sold I have only one more Object in stav- 
ing that is to Vote for the Removal of Congress from this to Philadelphia 
and this I believe will undoubtedly happen as soon as Maryland comes up. 3 
To do this Act I owe to myself, the Yankees and the state of Newyork. 
Let Molsey 4 know I am well. 

I believe we shall be able to write what is done with the Tobacco by the 
post tomorrow. Ashe is not up. 

•While the addressee is not named, the contents of the letter clearly show that it 
was to Secretary Knox. On Mar. 8 a motion by William Grayson for the removal of tin- 
arms, artillery, and military stores from Springfield, Massachusetts, was referred to the sec- 
retary at war to report. The secretary's report, Mar. 13, is in the Journals of that day. See 
Madison's Notes of Debates, Mar. 13, 29 (Journals, pp. 724, 730). 
[61 1] 1 Pierpont Morgan Library; N. C. State Recs., XX. 636. 

a See nos. 598, 601, ante, 612, 615, post. The contract with Constable, Rucker, and 
Company, Mar. 16, is in N. C. State Recs., XX. 639. See also the treasury board to the 
North Carolina delegates Mar. 17, ibid. 
[61a] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 Probably the letter to Governor Caswell, no. 611, ante. 

» See nos. 582, 583, 603, 605, ante, 630, 636, 639, 642^643. 656, 661, post. 

* Presumably his wife, who was Mary Grainger. Cf. no. 642, post. 



March, 1787 559 

613. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York March 19th 1787. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's two favors of the 1st and 4th of March, with the 
papers referred to have been duly received. Of the latter a discretionary 
use will be made as you are pleased to recommend. 2 

A copy of the Note from Mr. Vanberkle complaining of certain late 
acts of Virginia has been already transmitted. I now add the Report of 
the Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the subject, which has not yet under- 
gone the consideration of Congress. 8 

The appointments for the Convention go on auspiciously. 4 All the 
States have now come into the measure except Maryland of whom no 
doubt is entertained ; and Connecticut and Rhode Island, who it is expected 
will follow the example of their Neighbours. 

Notwithstanding the apparent victory in Massachussetts over the spirit 
of rebellion, it is said that at least half the Offenders choose rather to defy 
the consequences of treason, than accept of the amnesty on the conditions 
annexed to it; that they not only appear openly on public occasions, but 
have the insolence to wear badges of their character, and that this bold- 
ness is countenanced in many places by popular elections of them to local 
offices. 

A proposition has been introduced and discussed in the Legislature 
here for relinquishing the claim of the State to Vermont and urging the 
admission of it into the Union. The substance of the proposition is not 
disliked by any party and it is expected will be agreed to. The only differ- 
ence of opinion turns on the form, the party not interested in claims to 
lands within that district being jealous of a design in the interested party 
to involve a responsibility in the State for compensation, and the latter 
party being not less jealous perhaps of a latent wish in the former to see 
their claims barred even of the chance which the 9th art : of the Union 
will present if Vermont should become a member of it. The reports of a 
friendly communication between that district and Canada have of late 
been very strong, and if well founded render it unlikely that the Govern- 
ment of it will be disposed to join the confederacy at all. In no case will 
they do it I presume without securing their boundaries, and the rights of 
their people agst. the operation of the 9th art: of Confederation, and the 
State agst. the burden of the public debt already contracted. 5 

[613] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

2 These were papers relative to George Rogers Qark, etc., and were laid before 
Congress Mar. 28. They appear to have been referred Mar. 29 to the same committee to 
whom was referred a memorial from Cahokia, but on Mar. 30, together with some papers 
laid before Congress by the North Carolina delegates (see no. 640, note 2, post), they 
were referred to the secretary for foreign affairs. The latter made his report Apr. 13, and 
the papers are embodied in that report. Cf. nos. 623, 634, 638, 640, 646, 650, 651, post. 

3 See no. 602, ante. 

4 The remainder of this letter closely duplicates in language as well as in substance 
Madison's letter to Washington Mar. 18 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; 
Writings, II. 320; Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, IV. 165). Cf. the letter to Jefferson, 
Mar. 19 (18?), in Madison's Writings, II. 324. 

5 Cf. no. 609, ante, and nos. 635, 639, post. 



560 Continental Congress 

Congress has been too thin for the dispatch of important business, and 
indeed of any business at all. To day we have 9 States in Town. How long 
that number may remain is uncertain, and if it should remain how far in 
practice it may be found competent to the business of 7 States is equally so.* 

614. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

X. York, March 19th, 1787.* 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have continued so thin as to be incompetent to the 
despatch of the more important business before them. We have at present 
nine States, and it is not improbable that something may now he done 
The report of Mr. Jay on the mutual violations of the Treaty of peace 
will be among the first subjects of deliberation. He [favors the British 
claim of interest] but [refers] the [question to the court]. The amount 
of the [report which is an able one] is that the [treaty should] be [put in 
force] as a [law and the exposition of it] left like that [of other laws to 
the ordinary tribunals]. 8 

The [Spanish project sleeps 4 A] perusal of the [attempt of seven 
states] to make a [new treaty by repealing] an [essential condition of the 
old] satisfied me that Mr. [Jays caution] would [revolt at so irregular a 
sanction]. A late accidental conversation with [Guardoqui proved to me | 
that the [negociation is arrested]. It may appear strange that a member 
of [Congress should be indebted to a foreign minister] for [such informa- 
tion yet such] is the [footing on which] the [intemperance] of [party has 
put the matter] that it rests wholly with [Mr. Jay how far he] will [com- 
municate with Congress] as well as [how far he will negociate with ( mar- 
doqui]. 8 But although it appears that the intended [sacrifice of] the [Mis- 
sissippi will not be made], the [consequences of the intention] and the | at- 
tempt are likely to be very serious]. I have already made known to yen 
the light in which the subject was [taken up by Virginia]. 6 Mr. | 1 knrvs 
disgust exceeded all measure] and I am not singular in ascribing his refusal 
to [attend the Convention] to the [policy of keeping himself free to com- 
bat or espouse the result of it according] to the result [of the Mississippi 
business among other circumstances. North Carolina also] has given 

• William Samuel Johnson, who returned from Connecticut in time to attend Con- 
gress Mar. 16, records that there was "no Congress" on the 16th or 17th (Saturday). 
From the 19th to the 23d he was " at Congress " every day. 

[614] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 328; Papers, II. 622 (part; 
see note 2) ; Letters, I. 284 (part) ; Klliot, Debates, V. 107 (extract). 

2 In Madison's Writings (ed. Hunt), pp. 324, 328, are printed two letters from 
Madison to Jefferson dated Mar. 19, the date of the first given conjecturally as March 18. 
These are in fact parts of one and the same letter, with the one date-line as here given. The 
second part is found in Papers of Madison (1840, ed. Gilpin), the first in Letters . ... of 
Madison (1865 ed.). The extract here printed is from the second part of the letter. 

8 See nos. 500, 595, ante, the Journals. Mar. 21, Apr. 9, 23, and nos. 617. 634, 636-640, 
645, post. Bracketed words are written in cipher. 

* See nos. 561, 562, 590, 602, 604, 605, ante, 617, 625, 636, 630. 640, 643. 645. Post. 

8 The cipher actually translates " Guardardoqui ". In his Notes of Debates under 
Mar. 13 (Journals, p. 725) Madison has preserved a memorandum of the conversation with 
Gardoqui. 

6 See Madison to Jefferson Aug. 12, Dec. 4, 1786, Feb. 15 [11], 1787, in Wr\i 
II. 257, 289, 307. The last letter is also no. 586, ante. 



March, 1/8/ 561 

[pointed instructions] to [her delegates so has New Jersey]. A [propo- 
sition] for the [like purpose] was a [few days ago made in the legisla- 
ture of Pennsylvania] but went off without a [decision on its merits. Her 
delegates in Congress are equally divided] on the subject. The tendency 
of this [project] to [foment distrust among the Atlantic states] at a 
[crisis when harmony] and [confidence ought to have been] studiously 
[cherished] has not been more [verified than its predicted effect] on the 
[ultramontane settlements]. I have credible information that the people 
[living on the western waters are already in great agitation and are] taking 
[measures for uniting their consultations]. 7 The [ambition] of [indi- 
viduals] will [quickly mix itself] with the [original motives of resentment 
and interest]. A [communication will gradually] take place [with their 
British neighbors]. They will be [led to set up for themselves] to [seize 
on the vacant lands] to [entice emigrants 8 by bounties] and an [exemption 
from Federal burdens] and in all respects to [play the part of Vermont on 
a larger theatre.] It is [hinted to me] that [British partisans] are already 
[feeling the pulse] of some of the [western settlements.] Should these 
[apprehensions not be imaginary Spain may have equal reason] with the 
[United States to rue the unnatural attempt to shut the Mississippi. Guar- 
doqui has been admonished] of [the danger] and I believe [is not in- 
sensible to it tho'] he [affects to be otherwise] and [talks] as if the 
dependance of [Britain on the commercial favor of his Court] would [in- 
duce her to play into the hand of Spain.] The eye of [France also cannot 
fail to watch over the western prospects.] I learn from those who [confer 
here with Otto and De la Forest] that they [favor the opening of the 
Mississippi] dis [claim at the same time any authority to] speak the 
[sentiments of their Court.] I find that the [Virginia delegates, during 
the Mississippi discussions] last [fall, entered into very confidential inter- 
views with these gentlemen.] In one of them the [idea was communicated 
to Otto] of [opening the Mississippi for exports] but [not for imports] 
and [of giving to France and Spain] some [exclusive privileges in the 
trade.] He [promised] to transmit it to [Vergennes, to obtain his senti- 
ments] on the [whole matter] and [to communicate them to the dele- 
gates. 9 Not long since Grayson called on him] and [revived the subject]. 

He as[sured G ] that [he had received no answer from France] and 

signified his [wish that you might pump the Count de Vergennes observing 
that he would deny to you his having received any information from 
America.'] I [discover, thro] several [channels, that it would be] very 
[grateful to the French politicians here to see our negotiations with Spain 
shifted into your hands] and [carried on under the mediating auspices of 
their Court.] 

[Van Berkel has remonstrated against the] late [act of Virginia giving 
privileges to French wines and brandies in French bottoms contending] 
that the [Dutch are entitled] by [their treaty to equal exemptions] with 
the [most favored nation without being subject to a compensation for 

7 See no. 613, note 2, ante. 

8 There is no cipher for the word " emigrants " ; it is supplied by Jefferson in the 
interlinear translation. 

9 See no. 475, ante; cf. nos. 466, 492, 496, 507, 512, ante. 



562 Continental Congress 

them.] Mr. [Jay has reported against this construction] but considers the 
[act of Virginia as violating the treaty] first [because it appears to be 
gratuitous] not [compensatory on the face of it], secondly because the 
states have no right to form tacit compacts] with [foreign nations.] No 
decision of Congress has yet taken place on the subject. 10 . . . 

The Geographer and his assistants have returned surveys on the fed- 
eral lands to the amount of about 800,000 acres which it is supposed would 
sell pretty readily for public securities, and some of it lying on the Ohio 
even for specie. It will be difficult however to [get the proper steps taken by 
Congress so many of the states having] now [lands of their own at market] . 
It is supposed that this consideration had [some share in the zeal for 
shutting the Mississippi. New Jersey] and some others [having no w 
ern land] which [favored this measure] begin now to [penetrate the 
secret]. . . . 

615. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

New York the 19th March 17S7. 
Dear Sir, 

Immediately on the receipt of your Excellency's favor of the 12th of 
January 2 with the extract of an act for the disposal of the public Tobacco 
Colo. Blount turned his attention to that important object, but could not 
make any progress : And on the arrival of Mr. Hawkins we agreed to apply 
to the Board of Treasury for their advise and assistance and accordingly 
wrote them the letter marked 1/ 8 with the extract. We at the same time 
called on the board and gave such an explanation as would remove as far 
as was practicable any objections against the unfoederal aspect of the 
Act. The United States in Congress assembled having the authority " to 
ascertain the necessary sums of money to be raised for the service of the 
I nited States and to appropriate and apply the same for defraying the 
public expences." The Board seemed much disposed to cooperate with 
us. and took upon them the part assigned in our first quere. To their 
letter marked 2/ 4 we could give no other information than such as is 
detailed in the enclosed 5 which follow in order, that letter. 

We soon discovered, that to sell the Tobacco and at a higher price was 
practicable, provided we would do it on credit, and at the risque of not 
being paid, or if paid, in paper money in our own State or some other 
State at par with the specie contract. The variety of Bankrupts in the 
large commercial Cities, has given such a shock to private faith, that 
Bills of exchange are deemed a very uncertain remittance. 

10 See nos. 602, 613, ante, 622, 639, 746. post. 
[615] 1 Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. (signed by Blount and Hawkins; see 
note 8, below) ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 644. 

* N. C. State Recs.. XX. C02. 

8 The letter to the board of treasury Feb. 24, no. 598, ante. 

* The board of treasury to the delegates Feb. 28, N. C. State Recs., XX. 624; see 
also their letters of Mar. 14, 17, ibid., pp. 635, 639. 

8 The delegates to the board of treasury Mar. 1, no. 601, ante, with (presumably) 
the correspondence with Edward Dowse there mentioned. See also nos. 611, 612, ante. 



March, 1787 563 

The Act did not authorise us to Ship the Tobacco or we should have 
most assuredly have sent it to the Farmers general of France, having it 
previously ensured in Europe, and under the care of Mr. Jefferson our 
minister plenipotentiary at Paris. This mode it is generally agreed here, 
would have produced the most, and next to it the one we have adopted. 
This latter will produce us a credit at twenty six and eight pence per hun- 
dred, on the receipt of the receipts of the Tobacco, at the Treasury, and it 
will moreover, be paid according to the intention of our Legislature in 
discharge of so much of the interest which will be due on the Dutch Loans 
on the 1st of June next. This payment from our State is at a very criti- 
cal period, as, while we pay our interest on the Dutch Loans our Credit 
will be high in the United Netherlands, and the finances of the United 
States were utterly inadequate thereto without this aid from us. The 
Minister of the U. Netherlands, has been sufficiently impressed with the 
upright views and friendly intentions of North Carolina in this business, 
and he assures us he will in return render us any civilities in his power 
particularly in endeavouring to establish an extensive commercial con- 
nection between the two Countrys. 

We have assured Constable Rucker and Co. that orders would be im- 
mediately given by your Excellency to the several commissioners to have 
the Tobacco reinspected etca. according to the Terms of the agreement. 6 
And we have further to add that the Tobacco at Wilmington will be the 
first called for, a Ship now in port here being ready to sail for that purpose. 

As the credit is to be given on the receipts, we request that duplicates 
may be taken and sent forward from time to time as the Tobacco is deliv- 
ered ; Thus much as to the transaction, and now, to our own feelings, we 
did deem it proper, to wait for a short period the arrival of Colo. Ashe, 7 
because in all money matters we well know that Republicks were invari- 
ably jealous, and not being able to trust themselves, would with extreme 
difficulty be brought to give that credit which should be paid to their faith- 
ful servants more especially, when absent. The affair was urgent, payment 
of interest must be made at a given period, that period near at hand, the 
resourses of the U. States inadequate thereto, Our National credit at stake, 
and all Bills of Exchange or credit transactions very dubious — What was 
the best to be done? We trust your Excellency will say, and after you our 
constituents, that, which your delegates have done. 8 

6 Governor Caswell's reply, Apr. 23, is in N. C. State Recs., XX. 680. See also 
ibid., pp. 650, 658, 660, 667, 674, 675, 686-688, 693, 608, 699, 702, 724, 726, 728, 734, 737- 
739, 754, 761. 

7 Governor Caswell, writing to the council Mar. 14 to suggest that William Blount 
be appointed in Caswell's stead to attend the federal convention,, remarked that Ashe and 
Burton were supposed to be on their way to Congress (N. C. State Recs., XX. 636). 

8 This letter carries the notation : " New York April 13th, 1787. A true Copy from 
the original Willie Blount". It is endorsed (in Caswell's writing) : "No. 368 Delegates 
of No. Caro. New York 19. Mar Copy ". 

In N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers, is a letter from Blount and Hawkins 
to Governor Caswell, Mar. 21, referring to a letter from the consul general of France 
respecting the state's debt to the navy department of France. Cf. nos. 146, 490, ante, and 
no. 831, post. 



564 Continental Congress 

616. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York 25, March 1787. 
My Dr Friend, 

My opinion relative to our friend in the Treasury Board 2 was well 
founded, there is no probability of a vacancy there ; and at present I see 
nothing sufficiently valueable to mention to you. Congress have it in con- 
templation, or more accurately speaking, many Gentlemen appear to be 
impressed with the propriety of a project to establish a board with very 
extensive powers finally to settle the accounts between the states. Should 
the states unite in this measure, the characters will necessarily be of the 
first rank, and consequence ; and I am confident that you would be thought 
of, provided you could be obtained. Some time since congress determined 
to erect a board, but as the powers did not exceed those wh. the late com- 
missioners possessed, the plan has been objected to, and is now under 
consideration with a view of establishing something, which will be more 
decisive and expeditious. 3 I am persuaded that on this, and every other 
subject, in which you can have any interest, you will not doubt the sin- 
cerity of my disposition to unite with your wishes, and to exert myself 
for their accomplishment. I therefore intreat you to suggest to me any 
Ideas which you may entertain on this subject, at the same time muring 
you, that you can do it with all the confidence of the most inviolable 
Friendship 

.... Hancock has written a letter to Knox informing him that he 
shall be here shortly and requests him to procure him Lodgings. What is 
the meaning of this movement ? 

617. James Madison to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York Mar. 25, 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

I have had the pleasure of your two favors of the 1 and 7 instant. ' 
The refusal of Mr. Henry to join in the task of revising the confederation 
is ominous ; and the more so I fear if he means to be governed by the event 
which you conjecture. There seems to be little hope at present of being 
able to quash the proceedings relative to the affair 8 which is so obnoxious 

[616] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 217. 

2 Samuel Osgood. 

* "An Ordinance for establishing a Board to liquidate and settle all Accounts be- 
tween the United States and individual States " was adopted Oct. 13, 1786 ; and on Feb. 
15 a committee was appointed on a motion for the repeal of that ordinance. < >n Mar. 29, 
on a motion of King, it was resolved that the ordinance of October 13 be repealed and that 
the board of treasury report an ordinance " for the expeditious and equitable settlement of 
the accounts between the U S and the individual States ". The committee of Feb. 15 was 
accordingly discharged, and on Apr. 18 the board of treasury reported an ordinance for 
the purpose. It was debated Apr. 20, read a second time May 4, and adopted May 7. See 
Madison's Notes of Debates Mar. 29 (Journals, p. 729). Cf. nos. 637. 647, 656, 759, post. 
[617] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; writings, II. 333; Papers, II. 627. 

2 Randolph's letters of Mar. 1 and 7 are among the Madison Papers. 

'"Jay's project for shutting the Mississippi for 25 years" (marginal note on the 
original). See nos. 602, 604, 605, 614, ante, 625, 636, 639, 640, 643, 645, post. 



March, 1/8/ 565 

to him tho' on the other hand there is reason to believe that they will never 
reach the object at which they aimed. 

Congress have not changed the day for meeting at Philada. as you 
imagine. The Act of Va. I find has done so in substituting the 2 day for 
the 2d Monday in May, the time recommended from Annapolis. 

I cannot suppose that Mr. Otto has equivocated in his explanation to the 
public touching the Floridas. 4 Nothing of that subject has been mentioned 
here as far as I know. Supposing the exchange in question to have really 
been intended, I do not see the inference to be unfavorable to France. Her 
views as they occur to me would most probably be to conciliate the West- 
ern people in common with the Atlantic States, and to extend her com- 
merce, by reversing the Spanish policy. I have always wished to see the 
Mississippi in the hands of France or of any nation which would be more 
liberally disposed than the present holders of it. 

Mr. Jays report on the treaty of peace has at length been decided on. 
It Resolves and declares that the Treaty having been constitutionally 
formed is the law of the land, and urges a repeal of all laws contravening 
it, as well to stop the complaints of their existing as legal impediments, 
as to avoid needless questions touching their validity. Mr. Jay is pre- 
paring a circular address to accompany the Resolutions and the latter will 
not be forwarded till the former is ready. 5 

618. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New York 27 March, 1787. 
Sir, 

By the resolution of the General Court of the 8th day of march we are 
directed to move congress for a resolve that any advances that are, or may 
be made by Massachusetts for raising, cloathing, and subsisting of the 
federal Troops should be credited on the requisition of the 27. Sepr. 1785. 
As the state for reasons assigned in the resolution of the 26. Feby. last, has 
not granted her Quotas of the Requisitions of 1786, any monies which 
she has regularly advanced, or hereafter may advance, will of course be 
credited on the Requisition of the 27 : Sepr. 1785. It ought however to be 
observed, that these advances ought to be made in the manner directed by 
the Resolutions of Congress, monies are appropriated for the support of 
the military Establishment of the united States ; and the application of 
these monies is the peculiar Province of the Board of Treasury, who 
have the sole authority under Congress to contract for the Cloathing and 
subsistence of the federal Troops. We are wholly uninformed how the 
contributions of Massachusetts for the raising and subsisting of her Quota 
of these Troops have been conducted, and the board of Treasury inform 

4 See no. 576, ante. 

5 See nos. 590, 595, 614, ante, 634, 636-640, 645, post ; also Madison's Notes of 
Debates Mar. 20 and 21 (Journals, pp. 727-728), and the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 13. 
Under Mar. 23 (Journals, p. 728) Madison has some Notes on the proceedings with regard 
to the reduction of salaries in the civil list. 

[6i8] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9658 (signed by King and Dane). 



566 Continental Congress 

us that they are alike destitute of information. Possibly the state may 
have advanced monies to or entered into Engagements with, Col : Jack- 
son on this subject. Such advances, or Engagements, being unauthorised 
by the board of Treasury, may, for obvious reasons, hereafter prove 
the source of altercation and Embarrassment between the state and 
Congress. 2 .... 



619. The Secretary of Congress to the President of 
New Hampshire (John Sullivan). 1 

Office of Sec'y of Congress March 31, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have reed, the letters your Excellency did me the honor to write on 
the 1 1 and 30 July, the 26 August the 2 Octr the 25 Novr 1786 and the 24 
Jany 1787 and have the honor to inform you that your letter of the 3 of 
this month with the vote of the general Court appointing delegates to meet 
in convention at Philadelphia has been duly reed, and communicated to 
Congress. 2 The Act passed by the United States in Congress assembled on 
the 20 of feby and which I had the honor of transmitting to you in my 
letter of the 21/ so fully expresses their opinion touching the expediency 
of a convention of deputies from the several States for the purpose of 
revising the articles of Confederation and reporting to Congress and the 
several legislatures such alterations and provisions therein as shall when 
agreed to in Congress and confirmed by the states render the federal Con- 
stitution adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation 
of the Union, that your delegates will, I presume find no difficulty in pro- 
ceeding to join the Convention conformably to the vote of the general 
Court * 

2 The delegates are writing in view of Bowdoin's letters to them Mar. n, 14. and 
15, Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., VI. 169, 170, 172. See also Bowdoin to the 
delegates Mar. 16 (ibid., p. 186). With the first he had enclosed a resolution of the Gen- 
eral Court Mar. 7, and another of Mar. 8 ; with the second he had transmitted a resolution 
of Mar. 9, and with the third a resolution of Feb. 26. Cf. no. 593, ante, and nos. 625, 628. 
631, 635, 640, Post. 

[6ig\ l Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 116; N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
calendared, "Thomson" (copy); N. H. State Papers, XXL 833. 

2 President Sullivan's letter of Mar. 3, transmitting a resolution of the New Hamp- 
shire legislature, Jan. 17, respecting the appointment of delegates to the federal conven- 
tion, was read in Congress Mar. 15. The resolution is there spread on the Journals. With 
a brief circular letter also dated Mar. 3, Sullivan transmitted the resolution to the several 
States. Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 122, 123; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 228; N. C. & 
Recs., XX. 632, 633. 

8 According to the Journals the act of Congress relative to the federal convention 
was passed on Feb. 21. Thomson transmitted the act to the several states the same day. 
Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 114; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 121 ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 614; 
the act is ibid., p. 615. 

4 A final paragraph (here omitted) constituted a circular letter to all the states. 
See no. 620, post. 



March, 1/8/ 5GT 

620. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

(Connecticut) Office of Secretary of Congress 

[March 31, 1787.] 2 
Sir, 

I have received and communicated to Congress the letter which your 
Exy. did me the honor to write the 16 of Novr. together with the Act of 
the legislature fixing the commencement of the power to be vested in 
Congress for regulating trade and commerce ; and also your letters of the 
23 Deer, and 17 Feby. last and have the honor to inform your Excell'y that 
your letter of the 17 Feby. with the copy of the resolve of the genl. As- 
sembly passed at their last session, has been also reed, and communicated 
to the United States in Congress Assembled. 

I have now the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith 
enclosed an Act of Congress of the 23 for reducing the public expendi- 
tures and a state of the representation for the present Month 3 

621. William Samuel Johnson to Hugh Williamson. 1 

N Y 31st Mar. 1787. 
D'r S'r, 

I had the Hon[o]r a few Days since to receive from you a very agree- 
able Lett[e]r of the 14th Feb[ruar]y last which gave me very great 
satisfaction. The ability and assid [uit] y you display [e] d in the Cond [uc] t 
of public Busi[nes]s dur[in]g the period 2 I pas[se]d with you in Con- 
g[res]s strongly attracted my attention, and engag[e]d my earnest affec- 
tion and Esteem, and y[ou]r kind rememb[ranc]e of me theref[or]e 
do[e]s me Hon[o]r and gives me the highest pleasure. The inclosure to 
Dr. S. 3 was immed[iatel]y forw[arde]d to him and I doubt not is be- 
f [or]e this time in his hands. The propriety and Justice of y[ou]r censure 
upon the too freq[uen]t Changes of Members in Cong [res] s I must 
clearly concurr in while I personally experience the Inconven[ienc]e of 
the contrary but true plan of cont[inuin]g them to the utmost Term 
that the Confed[eratio]n admits of. Exper[ienc]e is of equal impor- 
t[anc]e with ability in the service of the public. But alass! with all we 
Possess of both our Affairs are daily growing worse and worse. I will 
not attempt to apportion the blame, I fear both thr[o]t[tle]rs and 
thr[o]t[tle]d must divide it between them. I will not desp[ai]r but 

[620] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 117. 

2 The date was not inserted in the copy of the letter to Connecticut, but im- 
mediately following this letter is a circular letter " To the other States " (see note 3, below) 
which does have the date. 

3 This paragraph is nearly identical with a circular letter to the states, separately 
transmitted to all except New Hampshire (see no. 619, ante) and Connecticut (Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 118; N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Rccs., XX. 655; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 132). The act of Mar. 23 is in each of the volumes referred to 
(pp. 651 and 129, respectively), but the state of representation is missing in both instances. 

[62 1 J 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, Susquehanna Lands, no. 40 (draft). 

2 Johnson wrote above the line, "I had the pleas[ur]e", meaning probably to cor- 
rect the sentence to " I had the pleasure of passing ", etc. 

3 Dr. Ezra Stiles, president of Yale College. 



568 Continental Congress 

I own I do not foresee what will become of us. If we can derive no succour 
from the Convent[io]n at Phi[ladelphi]a wh[ic]h I consid[e]r as a very 
doubtful Measure at best I fear We shall soon be in a deplorable situation. 4 
I see with great Pleas[ur]e that y[ou]r W[ester]n Peop[l]e are re- 
t[urne]d wisely to Peace and subord[inatio]n and I hear with concern 
that 6 an extensive sum of private Villainy has occurr[e]d amongst you. 
I doubt not the Perpetrat[o]rs will meet with condign Punish [men ]t 
when discov[ere]d, fl and wish this was the only instance of Public fraud T 
[and] Imposit[io]n to be found amongst us. I congrat[ulat]e you on 
the fair prosp[ec]t of Peace and Union in M. B. 8 The obstacles to 8 Peace 
in Pen[nsylvani]a will I trust be soon remov[e]d. The Legisl[atur]e 
have before them a very liberal L[aw] and when these Act[ua]l 
Set[t]l[er]s are once quieted Conn[ecticu]t, I believe will take prop[e]r 
Meas[ure]s with all the rest that are concerned. R. I. is past all hope till 
a new adm[inistratio]n shall assume the re [ins] of Gov[ernmen]t. We 
are not however with[ou]t hope that the next Election in M. will 
produce this wish[e]d for Event. Yo[u] impute their Misfort[une]s to 
their true cause the spirit [ ?] of Pap[er] Credit which surprisingly 
prevails in the Union. How long Conn[ecticu]t will Escape I know not. 
as we have a pretty strong p[ar]ty in fav[o]r of this same iniqu[itou]s 
System. Hitherto happily they have been kept und[e]r and the misery of 
oth[e]r St[ate]s who hav[e] acced[e]d to the Meas[ur]e cont[inuall]y 
strengthens the arg[umen]ts ag[ains]t them w[hic]h gives us hopes 
that they may yet be controled. 10 

The plan of indiscrim[ina]t[e] Locat[io]n for the W. Country is 
again upon the Carpet in Cong[res]s but I trust will ag[ai]n be defeate[d] 
Yet some alterat[ion]s of the ord[inan]ce may perhaps be admittefd] 1 

With the best wishes for both y[ou]r present and unbroken [ ?] 
felic[it]y I have the Hon[o]r to be with the most Cord[ial ] resped and 
Esteem 12 

*Cf. nos. 568, 585, 589, 590, 595, 599, 604, 608, 619, ante. The interpretation 
" throttlers and throttled ", above, is offered with a puzzled hesitancy. 

5 Johnson first wrote, "you have had", then changed the structure of the senti 
8 The word may be exposed. 

7 The word " fraud " is inserted above the line and may have been intended as a 
substitute for "imposition". The allusion is doubtless to the affair referred to under no. 
570, note 2, ante. 

8 Massachusetts Bay. " M " farther on is for Massachusetts. 

9 First written, " Difficult[ie]s in". 

10 " Controled " substituted for " unsuccessful ". 

11 See nos. 637, 645-647, post. 

18 Williamson's letter of Feb. 14, written from Fdenton, on the blank spaces of which 
Johnson wrote .the draft of his reply, is in Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers. Susque- 
hanna Lands, no. 39. " I frequently hear with Pleasure ", Williamson wrote, " that you 
continue at New York to represent your State in Congress. I heartily wish that 1 
State in the Union would shun that yearly or half yearly shifting of Helm'smen and that 
they were equally attentive with Connecticut to keep Gentlemen at the Helm whose abili- 
ties aided by Fxperience might gain them a Claim to full confidence. In such Case tin 
Union might not be quite so inattentive to Congressional Recommendations. . . . Many 
attempts I hear have been made by southern gentlemen to fit the mode of taking up Lands 
in the Western Country to the appetite of Land Speculators, hitherto without Success." 
Johnson records in his diary that there was " No Cong's " Mar. 24, but that he was " at 
Congress" Mar. 26 to 30 (Monday to Friday). On Sunday, the 25th, he "Dined Presi- 
dents", and again on the 27th he " Din'd Presidents". Under Saturday, Mar. 31, la- 
records, " No Cong's at Treas'y etc. etc." 



April, 1787 569 

622. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York April 2d, 1787. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellencies 
favor of the 15th Ult. to the Delegation. Any additional information 
which may be acquired upon the subject of Mr. Van Berkels Memorial 
will be punctually transmitted. 2 

I lament exceedingly the Situation into which our Trade is thrown 
under the late Laws, it will occasion a deminution of the Revenue which 
we are in no condition to bear, this circumstance evinces the impossibility 
of Managing the Trade of America by State arrangements, and necessity 
of vesting the foederal Head, with full Authority over that, and every 
Interest of the like general nature. Until this is the case, State schemes 
will be pursued with surreptitious views against each other, which must 
eventually destroy a source of Revenue that might be immensely valuable 
to the whole Union ; and every effort prohibitory of foreign Articles will 
also be vain. 

The Resolutions upon the proposed Convention between the States of 
Virginia, Maryland and Pensylvania, have been laid before Congress, and 
referred to a Committee, who have reported favourably : The proposition 
is, however, viewed with a Coolness which will retard the decision, nor 
can I venture an opinion as to the issue. 3 

Congress last week had under consideration the civil list establishment, 
and made some considerable reductions therein, inclosed your Excellency 
will receive the resolusions upon that subject. This measure in some 
instances resulted rather from necessity than choice. 4 

The House of Assembly of New York have passed an Act to Authorise 
the delegates of that State in Congress, to accede to, ratify and confirm 
the Independence and Sovereignty of Vermont, and it is understood that 
it will pass the Senate and Council of revision, the enclosed papers contain 
the principles and arguments upon which the measure is founded — as 
soon as the Act is compleat it shall be transmitted, it is suggested that 
there may arise a difficulty upon the point of a participation in the public 
burthens heretofore incurred. 5 

By some late acts of Rhode Island it appears that the current of Mad- 
ness in that State has not yet compleated its course, the Assembly have 
decided by a Majority of upwards of twenty, not to send deputies to the 
Convention — and, by the same majority, they have declined to aid the 
State of Massachusetts in apprehending the Insurgents who have taken 
refuge amongst them. 

The Board of Treasury still decline sending the Indents — this conduct 
is founded upon the information of the loan Officer that the funds for 

[622] > Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 264 (extract). 

2 See nos. 602, 613, 614, ante, and no. 746, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. 1, 13, May 8; also no. 600, note 3, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 23; also nos. 619, 620, 621, ante. 

5 Cf. no. 613, ante ; also Madison to Washington Mar. 18 and to Jefferson Mar. 19 
(Writings, II. 320, 328). 



570 Continental Congress 

complying with the requisition are inadequate — the Act of Congress 
makes the Indents issuable upon condition that adequate funds shall first 
have been provided, and the Board alledge, that having no data on which 
to found an opinion of their own, they are obliged to conform to that of 
the Loan Officer, perhaps upon an interview between the Executive and 
the loan Officer this difficulty might be removed, the Indents now to be 
issued would not, I beleive, be receivable in the Tax now collecting, but 
that of 1787 will be coming on, and it is of some consequence that the 
people should have it in their power to get the Indents in time for it." 
The Treaty with Sweden is enclosed. 

623. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

My dear Sir, N - YoRK » A P ril 2d l 7%7- 

I have your favor of the fifteenth ultimo. All of preceding date have 
been already acknowledged. The information which you wished to go to 
Mr. Guardoqui has been communicated. The real impression made by it 
cannot easily be seen through the political veil. If he views the state of 
Western affairs in the true light, his representations to Spain, must con- 
vince her that she has no option but between concession and hostilities. 
It is to be lamented that so many circumstances have concurred to enlist 
her pride on the side of the latter alternative.* 

The papers accompanying the advice of the Council as to Clarke have 
been laid before Cong's. Similar communications have also been made 
from N. Carolina. 8 The impression they have made is not unfriendly I 
conjecture to the Rights of the Western people, and it is probable that .1 
rediscussion of these may be produced by the occasion. Our strength 
however is unequal to any effectual vote. A reinforcement from either 
Maryland or S. Carolina would I believe supply the defect, Pennsylvania 
having lately appointed Armstrong in the place of Pettit which throws 
that State into the right Scale. We have some hopes also as to Rh. Island. 
She begins to see the policy of some States in her neighbourhood, in ex- 
cluding the federal territory from the market at which they offer their 
own. N. Jersey has fully entered into this view of the matter, and feels 
no small indignation at it. 

Rhode Island has negatived a motion for appointing deputies to the 
Convention, by a majority of twenty two votes. Nothing can exceed 
the wickedness and folly which continue to reign there. All sense of 
character as well as of right is obliterated. Paper money is still their 
idol, though it is debased to eight for one.* 

a See no. 600, ante, and no. 671, post. 
[623] x Library of Congress. Madison Papers: Papers, II. 629. 
2 Randolph's letter of March 15 is in the Madison Papers. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 28, 29, Apr. 13 ; also Madison's Notes of Debates Mar. 
28, 29, 30 (Journals, pp. 729, 730-732). Cf. no. 613, ante, and nos. 640, 646, 650, post. 

4 Madison wrote to his father Apr. 1 : " Congress have remained very thin ever 
since my arrival, and have done but little business of importance. The general attention is 
now directed towards the approaching Convention" (Library of Congress, Madison 
Papers; Writings. II. 334; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 105). 

William Samuel Johnson's diary entry for Apr. 2 is, " Cold at Congress. Din'd Presi- 
dents ". On the 3d, 4th. and 5th he was " at Congress ". The entry for Apr. 6 is, " Rain 
Good Frid'y St Pauls " ; on the 7th. " No Cong's ". 



April, 1787 571 

■ 

624. Thomas Polk to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

May it Pleas your Excelency 

on my Reciving a Commition from you to attend Congrass in November 
Next it Put me in Mind I should stand in Need of hard Money and I 
find it is Not easey to be Got. the Law in South Carolina being Stopt for 
sum time Past Puts it out of My Power to Recover Money in that State, 
and being so fare from the sea board I Cannot have any Remitances 
Maid that Way. 

I Must therfour Call on your Excelency if Consistant With the duty 
of your office at so early an hour to Send me a Warrant for the sum 
alloted Me for that Sarvice by Ma jr. John Nilson Who Will Return by 
Hilborogh and Will be able to Inform me When to Send to the Treasurer 
for the Contents of the Warrant. 2 

Charlotte 3 of april 1787. 3 

625. James Mitchel Varnum to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(John Collins). 1 

$i r New York, 4th April, 1787, 

.... The General Assembly have suffered in the opinion of many 
for refusing the appointment of delegates to meet in Convention at 
Philadelphia. Perhaps they will reconsider that matter in May, when an 
appointment will be in time. But one measure of Congress has taken 
place since I had the honor of writing to your Excellency, that may be 
deemed important. That respects the interference of the respective legis- 
latures in obstructing the operations of the treaty with Great Britain, this 
business is not fully detailed ; as soon as it is compleated we will have the 
pleasure of communicating it. I say we, because Mr. Arnold has joined 
me. In general it denies the power of the individual States to vary in any 
measure, the conclusive acts of the United States in Congress in matters 
confided to them by the articles of Confederation : And therefore, deems 
all acts void that bear such a complexion. 2 

A very serious and important subject will be taken up in a few days 
respecting the western territory and the navigation of the Mississippi ; at 
present every thing essentially relating to that business, is upon the Secret 
Journals. 3 A reduction of the Corps will also take place, in which Rhode 
Island will be excused from raising any troops. 4 

[624] ! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C; N. C. State Recs., XX. 658. 

2 Thomas Polk was elected Dec. 16 (see no. 576, note 5, ante). On Apr. 17 Gov- 
ernor Caswell acknowledged receipt of this letter by the hand of Maj. John Nelson and 
sent him a warrant for eight months' service, " that is one going another returning and 
six attending in Congress, this is agreeable to an Act of Assembly of the Last Session " 
(N. C. State Recs., XX. 676). There is no record of Polk's attendance at any time. 

3 The letter is addressed, " His Excellency Rd Caswell Esqr North Carolina 
Hon'd by John Nilson Esqr ", and is endorsed, " Gen. Polks Letter requesting a warr't 
for Salary as Delegate from Novr. 1787". 

[625] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 67; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 578. 

2 See nos. 590, 595, 614, 617, ante. 

3 See nos. 602, 604, 605, 614, 617, ante, 636, 639, 640, 643, 645, post. 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 28, Apr. 4, 9; also nos. 628, 631, 635, 640, post. 

43 



572 Continental Congress 

626. William Irvine to the President of Congress 
(Arthur St. Clair). 1 

New York April 4th, 1787. 

Oir, 

Having observed that an extra allowance has been generally made to 
officers on seperate Commands, I applied to the Commissioner of Army 
accounts to settle with me for the time I Commanded at Fort Pitt, but 
find he has it not in his power ; for notwithstanding he has done it in almost 
every instance yet he has been authorised so to do, by special orders or 
Resolutions — except to Major Generals. 

There are existing Resolutions in favor of Brigadier General Howe 
15th april 1777 — Moultrie the 13th May 1779, and the 8th May 1781, 
To the Commanding General at West point for the time being. 

I have reason to think General Mcintosh has been settled with in the 
State of Georgia, which will of course be charged to the United States, 
but of this I am not certain. Claims of sundry inferior officers in similar 
cases have also been allowed. 

Permit me to assure your Excellency and the honorable members, that 
I would not give you this trouble, if I did not consider my claim founded 
in strict Justice, and sanctioned by precidents — as I conceive in every other 
instance no officer that I know of who Commanded in seperate depart- 
ments, but what have been settled with. If therefore Congress view my 
claim in the same light, I hope they will be pleased to order their Com- 
missioner to settle with me on the same principle he has in all other cases 
been directed to settle with officers of the same rank when Commanding in 
seperate departments.* 

627. Rufus King to Theophilus Parsons. 1 

_ „. New York, 8 April, 1787. 

Dear Sir, 

.... I wish it was in my power to say that the affairs of the Union 

bore a more favorable appearance than when I saw you last ; 2 but the 1 

trary is the fact. What the Convention may do at Philadelphia is very 

doubtful. There are many well disposed men from the Southern St 

who will attend the Convention; but the projects are so various, and all 

so short of the best, that my fears are by no means inferior to my Hopes 

on this subject. 

628. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

_, _. New York oth Ap'l 1787. 

D r Sir, 

Congress this day resolved to disband all the Troops raised in pur- 
suance of the resolutions of October last, except two companies of Artillery 

[626] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIII., f. 407. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 9. 11, 12. 
[627] 1 Life of King, I. 218; Memoir of Theophilus Parsons, p. 461. 

2 Probably in November, when the agents of Massachusetts and those of New 
York met at Hartford to adjust the controversy between those two states. Sec nos. 549, 
SSI. SS9, 603, ante. 
"T628] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original); Life of King, I. 218. 



April, 1787 573 

to be formed from the Recruits of Massachusetts and marched to Spring- 
field for the protection of the federal Magazine at that Place. 2 

I have entertained many doubts relative to the policy of this measure 
considering the situation of Massachusetts ; and the condition of the Con- 
federacy, our state voted against the measure, but we were almost 
singular. 

I am extremely mortified with the Disappointments which this arrange- 
ment will produce with the worthy Gentlemen who have laid aside other 
concerns and engaged as Officers in this corps. 

629. John Armstrong, jr., to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Benjamin Franklin). 1 
Sir, 

Your Excellency and Council will be pleased to accept my most respectful 
acknowledgments for the indulgence granted me by their Vote of this 
Morning. As pecuniary considerations have at no time entered into my 
motives to public action, I must beg leave to inform the board that should 
I go to Congress I shall feel myself obliged to apply the Sallery given me 
as Secretary, agreeably to its original intention, and of course to employ 
such additional Assistant as will prevent any neglect in the execution of 
the duty of that appointment. 2 

1 oth April, 1787. 

630. Rufus King to Elbridge Gerry. 1 
(Confidential) N York ii Ap'l 1787. 

My D'r Sir, 

I informed you some Time since that the injurious Influence of 1783 
would be again experienced by the present Congress. 2 It appears to me most 
evidently that every state south of this is decidedly under this Influence. 
Rhode Island at present represented by Genl. Varnum and a Mr. Arnold 
will desert that wise policy which has been so often and so successfully 
opposed to political vice and Degeneracy, and will unite in measures for- 
eign to the true Interest of the Union, and nearly allied to corruption. 3 

A question was yesterday moved to adjourn Congress on the last fri- 
day of this month to meet at Philadelphia on the first Monday in June, 
six states south of this are represented. I moved to strike out the place of 
meeting and called the yeas and nays on the words standing ; to my aston- 
ishment Rhode Island voted that they shd. stand, and the six states south 
of this joined in the vote of Rhode Island. From this vote it was clear 
that there were seven states in favor of adjourning to Philadelphia, we 

2 See the resolutions in the Journals, Apr. 9, with the note relative to proposed 
amendments. Cf. no. 625, ante, and nos. 631, 635, 640, post. 
[629] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 137. 

2 See Armstrong's credentials, in the Journals Apr. 18. 
[630] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 218. 

2 The allusion is probably to his letter of Feb. 18 (no. 589, ante), where he indi- 
cates a fear that Pennsylvania and New Jersey will be "under a Southern Influence" 
and voices a general fear of the outcome. 

3 Cf. no. 594, ante (also the next paragraph of this letter). The Rhode Island 
delegate presumed to have been temporarily detached was Peleg Arnold. 



574 Continental Congress 

postponed the Question in the right of Massachusetts until this Day, and 
successfully employed the interim in detaching for the present one of the 
R. Island Delegates from his Vote yesterday. 4 

The subject was therefore farther postponed by order of the house ; I 
fear Rhode Island will yet vote for this pernicious measure, or that on the 
arrival of Maryland it will be carried. 

We have a public Letter from Mr. Adams soliciting leave to come home ; 
I think he will return in the spring of 1788 when his commission will 
expire. In a private letter to the Delegates of Mass : he desires them to 
promote his recall, as he declares he will return at the expiration of his 
Commission. 8 

631. Rufus King to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 
n , ~. New York nth Ap'l 1787. 

I was much disappointed with the sudden and unexpected return of Col. 
Humpreys; I wished to have conversed with him on the subject of the 
late military Establishment. I say late, since congress have resolved to dis- 
band all the Troops raised in pursuance of the Resolutions of October last, 
except two companies of Artillery to be formed out of the Levies of 
Massachusetts, and to be posted for the present at Springfield. 

I was opposed to this reform, notwithstanding the evident difficulty of 
supporting the whole of the Troops which had been recruited, being of 
Opinion that the whole should be retained in service, or the whole 
discharged. 

I am sincerely affected with the versatility of this measure, as well as 
with the Disappointments, which the Officers will suffer, who have engaged 
in the Establishment. 

Massachusetts and Rhode Island voted against this Measure, all the 
other states were in favor of the Reduction. 2 .... 

632. William Samuel Johnson to Samuel William Johnson. 1 

., r, P New York April 1 2th, 1787. 

My Dear Son, r ' ' 

.... We are to have a Convention of Delegates from the States at 

Philadelphia in May to endeavour to strengthen our federal Government 

and restore our affairs. To this Measure all the States have acceded except 

4 See the Journals, Apr. 10; cf. nos. 582, 583, 603, 60S, 612, ante, 636, 639, 642, 
643, 656, 661, post. See also Madison's Notes of Debates Apr. II, 12 (Journals, pp. 

734). 

8 Adams's public letter, Jan. 24, is in his Works, VIII. 421 ; a private letter to Jay, 
Jan. 25, is ibid., p. 424; and his letter to the Massachusetts delegates, Jan. 25, is ibid., 
p. 425. The letter of Jan. 24, together with one of Jan. 9 and another of Feb. 3, was laid be- 
fore Congress by the secretary for foreign affairs Apr. 11. The letter of Feb. 3 is ibid., 
p. 428. See also Jefferson to Adams Feb. 6, ibid., p. 430. The public letters and en- 
closures are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 686-693, 734-/36. Cf. nos. 632, 635, 
639, 641, Post. See further the Journals, July 26, Aug. I, Sept. 24, Oct. 13. 

[63i] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Wadsworth Papers. 

2 See no. 628, ante, and no. 635, post. In the Wadsworth Papers are three letters 
from General Knox to Wadsworth, Apr. 1, 8, IX, respecting proceedings relative to the 
troops. 

[63a] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers. 



April, 1787 575 

Rhode Island, which has refused to send Delegates, and Connecticut 
which has not yet had the subject before them, nor can till the Assembly 
meets next Month. But whether they will be able to put us upon a better 
footing appears to me very problimatical at present, and if they do not, 
our disorders and difficulties will for some time, at least, rapidly 
encrease. 2 .... 

.... Ma jr. Alden .... begs you will excuse his not writing by this 
Conveyance, as by Mr. Thompsons Illness he is incessantly engaged in 
the business of the Office. I enclose you a Report from our Secret'y of 
Foreign Affairs which Congress have just now adopted, and which, I trust, 
will do us some Honour. 3 .... 

633. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

c< New York Ap'l 12, 1787. 

Your Excellencies favor of the 4th Instant this moment came to hand. 
The post is just going out, and therefore I have not time to say more, 
in addition to this acknowledgement, than that Congress yesterday ap- 
pointed Mr. John Pierce, late Pay master General, to succeed Mr. Fox who 
has resigned, and he will set out immediately to Virginia. I shall do myself 
the Honor to write you more fully tomorrow, and will then enclose the 
resolution for this appointment. 2 

634. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular.) Office of Secretary of Congress, 

Sir April 13th, 1787. 

I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
sundry resolutions passed by the United States in Congress Assembled 
Respecting the Treaty of Peace between the United States of America 
and Great Britain ; And also a Letter to Your Excellency this day unani- 
mously agreed to in Congress on the same subject. 2 

2 Cf. nos. 59s, 597, 599, 627, ante, 635, 639, 641, 642, post. 

3 This was the report transmitting the Moroccan treaty and sundry papers re- 
lating to it. Jay reported upon the treaty May 8, recommending its ratification, and on 
July 18 it was ratified accordingly and recorded textually in the Journals. The treaty 
(which was signed by Jefferson Jan. i, 1787, and by Adams Jan, 25) is also in Malloy, 
Treaties, Conventions, etc., I. 1206-1212. Cf. no. 630, ante, and nos. 635, 639, 641, 707, post. 
Johnson's diary shows that from Apr. 8 to 13 (Monday to Friday) he was " at Congress " ; 
under the 14th he enters, " No Congress ". 

[633] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 265 (abstract). 
2 See nos. 635, 638, post. 

[634] l N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 118; N. C. State Recs., XX. 661. 

2 The resolutions transmitted were those of Mar. 21, and the circular letter to the 
states was that of Apr. 13, which, in accordance with instructions to the secretary for 
foreign affairs Mar. 21, was submitted Apr. 9 and adopted Apr. 13. The resolutions had 
their origin in Jay's report of Oct. 13, 1786. See nos. 590, 595, 614, 617, ante, 636-640, 645, 
647, 688, 716, post. The circular letter of Apr. 13, signed by President St. Clair, is also 
printed in N. C. State Recs., XX. 668, and it appeared in many newspapers (among others, 
in the Charleston Morning Post and Daily Advertiser, May 23). The copy sent to North 
Carolina is in N. C. Hist. Comm., and that to Connecticut is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Society 
Collection. See nos. 636, 637, post. 



576 Continental Congress 

635. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York April 13, 1787. 
Sir, 

A misapprehension as to the tour of Correspondence with your Excel- 
lency, which I understood to be weekly, instead of monthly, occasioned me 
to neglect writing last Monday, and I must beg the favor of you to pardon 
me for the neglect. 

I now do myself the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of 
the 22d Ult. The Act of the Executive upon the subject of the Illinois 
Accounts, was laid before Congress, together with some communications 
from Mr. Fox to the Board of Treasury, requesting an Augmentation of 
his pay, and signifying his intention to decline any further attendance in 
case of refusal, whereupon the inclosed resolutions were adopted for send- 
ing the Commissioner of Army Accounts upon that business. Mr. Pierce 
has served for many years as Pay master General and Commissioner of 
Army Accounts, and is distinguished for his abilities and integrity.* 

The reduced State of our Treasury has rendered it advisable to dis- 
charge all the Troops that have been enlisted under the Resolutions of the 
20th of October 1786, except two Companies of Artillery, to be fornud 
out of those raised in Massachusetts, these are to be stationed, at present, 
at Springfield and West point, this is a disgusting measure to the dis- 
banded Troops, and it was distressing to Congress to adopt it, but had they 
been retained the event must have been met at last, under accumulated 
inconveniences and embarrassments to both parties. We are considerably 
in arrears to those Stationed on the Ohio, nor have we a prospect of pay- 
ing them. 8 

The February packet of his Most Christian Majesty, arrived here last 
Monday Morning from Havre de Grace. Colo. Franks the bearer of the 
public dispatches from Paris, informs that before the sailing of the Packet. 
accounts were received at Havre, of the death of the Count Vergennes — 
our letters from Mr. Jefferson mention his indisposition, and that it occa- 
sioned great anxiety.* .... 

[P. S.] Mr. Jeffersons public letters have not yet been laid before 
Congress — they are accompanied by some papers which are in French, and 
these are translating, should these dispatches contain any thing of O 
quence you will you shall [sic'] receive it by next Mail. 5 

T635] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 265 (extract). 

2 See no. 633, ante, and the Journals, Apr. 9 (letter of the board of treasury the 
same day), Apr. II. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 9; also nos. 628, 631, ante. 

4 Col. David Franks was the bearer of despatches from Adams and Jefferson, 
including the treaty with Morocco. See nos. 630, 632, ante. The illness of the Comte de 
Vergennes was mentioned by Jefferson in his letters of Feb. I and 8 (Dipl. Corr. U. & 
1783-1789, II. 26, 36). The omitted passage is mainly a summary of events in France, 
presumably as related by Franks. 

5 On Apr. 12 Jay laid before Congress the Moroccan treaty and other j>.r 
brought by Colonel Franks, and on Apr. 18 the letters from Jefferson received by the 
February packet. See no. 632, ante, and nos. 639, 641, post. 



April, 1787 577 

636. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

N. York April 15, 1787. 
My dear friend, 

Your favor of Apr. 4 has been received since my last. 2 .... 

The effect of the interposition of Cong's in favor of the Treaty at this 
crisis was foreseen by us. 3 I would myself have preferred a little procras- 
tination on the subject. But the manifest and undeniable propriety of the 
thing itself, with the chance that the Legislature here which will adjourn 
in a little time untill next winter, and which is one of the principal trans- 
gressors, may set an immediate example of reformation, overruled the 
arguments for delay. The difficulties which as you suggest may be left 
behind by a mere repeal of all existing impediments will be probably found 
of a very serious nature to British Creditors. If no other advantage should 
be taken of them by the State, than the making the assent of the Creditors 
to the plan of instalments, a condition of such further provisions as may 
not come within the Treaty, I do not know that the existence of these 
difficulties ought to be matter of regret. In every view Cong's seem to 
have taken the most proper course for maintaining the national character, 
and if any deviations in particular States should be required by peculiar 
circumstances, it will be better that they should be chargeable on such 
States, than on the U. States 4 

This city has been thrown into no small agitation by a motion made a 
few days ago for a short adjournment of Cong's and the appointment of 
Philad'ia as the place of its reassembling. No final question was taken 
but some preliminary questions shewed that six States were in favor of it. 
R. Island the 7th State, was at first in the affirmative; but one of its Dele- 
gates was overcome by the exertions made to convert him. As neither 
Maryland nor S. Carolina was present the vote is strong evidence of the 
precarious tenure by which N. York enjoys her metropolitan advantages. 
The motives which led to this attempt were probably with some of a local 
nature. With others they were certainly of a general nature. 5 

I found on my arrival here among the Southern Gentlemen a heavy com- 
plaint of the preponderance given to the Eastern Scale by the very excen- 
tric position of Cong's and a determination to sieze the first moment for 
taking a position in which the equilibrium would be less violated. The 
indignation of N. Jersey and of R. Island agst. N. York, presented this 
moment, and the experiment was accordingly made. It can not be denied 
that very substantial inconveniences arise to the Southern States from their 

[636] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 341; Papers, II. 634. 

2 In his letter of Apr. 4 (Madison Papers) Randolph says that there is every 
reason to expect that General Washington will be present at the Convention. Madison 
suggests that it might be wiser if the general would delay his attendance " until some 
judgment can be formed of the result of the meeting". 

8 See the Journals, Mar. 21 ; also no. 634, ante. 

4 The omitted passage relates to the special session of the Maryland assembly and 
to Randolph's coming to the federal convention. 

5 Cf. no. 630, ante, and nos. 637-639, 642, 643, 656, 661, post. Randolph remarked 
in a letter to Carrington Apr. 11 that it was said the proposed removal of Congress to 
Philadelphia was because of New York's refusal to grant the impost (see no. 646, note 2, 
post). Cf. the next paragraph of Madison's letter. 



578 Continental Congress 

remoteness from the seat of government, both with respect to the atten- 
dance of their delegates and the various intercourse of business within the 
federal administration and that from the nature of things, the interests 
and views of the States nearest to Cong's will always press more on their 
attention, than those of more distant : Had Cong's been sitting last fall at 
Fort Pitt,* it is morally certain in my opinion that a surrender of the Mis- 
sisspi [sic] : wd. not have had two votes : to these considerations may be 
added the improbability that the Eastern States will ever consent to remove 
Cong's to a proper permanent seat whilst they can retain them here. But 
notwithstanding this view of the matter, the objections agst. the sudden- 
ness of the measure, and the peculiarity of the present crisis, appeared to 
me in so strong a light that I should certainly have voted agst. it, had 
the probability been less that by waiting for a proper time, the proper 
measure might be lost altogether. The plan which appeared least objection- 
able to me was, to fix Philada. for the meeting of the ensuing Cong's in 
Novr. next, and if the immediate removal had been carried, I meant to have 
proposed such an alteration which would have been readily agreed to by 
the opposite side. 

Mr. [Jay] 7 was a few days ago [instructed to communicate to Con 
gress] the [State] of the [Spanish negociation] . An [unwilling but 
silent assent] was given by [Massachusetts] and [Connecticut]. The 
[Report shews] that [Jay viewed] the [act of seven States as valid ] and 
has [even adjusted] with [Guardoqui] an [article] for [suspending 
our use] of the [Mississippi during the term of] the [Treaty]. A subse- 
quent [report on a reference] of [western] information from [Virga. 
and N. Carolina] denotes little confidence in the [event of] the [negocia- 
tion] and considerable [perplexity] as to the [steps] proper to be taken 
[by Congress]. [Wednesday] is fixed for the [consideration of] these 
[reports]. We mean to propose that [Jefferson be sent] under a [special 
commission] to [plead] the [cause of] the [Mississippi at Madrid 1. 

637. James Madison to George Washington. 1 
Dear sir New York April .6, 178;. 

. . . . 2 The inclosed address to the States on the subject of the Treaty of 
peace has been agreed to by Congress, and forwarded to the several Execu- 
tives. We foresee the irritation which it will excite in many of our Coun- 
trymen; but could not withold our approbation of the measure. Both the 
resolutions and the address passed without a dissenting voice. 8 

Congress continue to be thin, and of course to do little business of 

a The question of the removal of Congress to Fort Pitt appears to have been 
broached in the summer of 1783. See these Letters, VII. 293. 

1 Bracketed words are written in cipher. The instruction was adopted Apr. 4, and 
Jay's report, dated Apr. 11, is in the Journals, Apr. 13. See further the Journals, Apr. iS, 
20, May 11 ; also nos. 637, 639, 640, 643, 647, post. Cf. nos. 614, 617, 625, ante. 

[637] x Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings, II. 344: Letters. I. 287. 

2 Madison is replying to Washington's letter of Mar. 31 {Writings, ed. Ford., 
XI. 130; ed. Sparks, IX. 245), and discusses at some length the appropriate constitutional 
provisions. 

» See no. 634, note 2, ante. 



April, 1787 579 

importance. The settlement of the public accounts, the disposition of 
the public lands, and arrangements with Spain, are subjects which claim 
their particular attention. As a step towards the first, the treasury board 
are charged with the task of reporting a plan by which the final decision 
on the claims of the States will be handed over from Congress, to a select 
sett of men bound by the oaths, and cloathed with the powers of Chan- 
cellors. 4 As to the second article, Congress have it themselves under con- 
sideration. Between 6 and 700 thousand acres have been surveyed and 
are ready for sale. The mode of sale however will probably be a source of 
different opinions ; as will the mode of disposing of the unsurveyed residue. 
The Eastern gentlemen remain attached to the scheme of townships. Many 
others are equally strenuous for indiscriminate locations. The States 
which have lands of their own for sale, are suspected of not being hearty 
in bringing the federal lands to market. 5 The business with Spain is 
becoming extremely delicate, and the information from the Western settle- 
ments truly alarming. 6 

A motion was made some days ago for an adjournment of Congress 
for a short period, and an appointment of Philada. for their reassembling. 
The excentricity of this place as well with regard to E. and West as to N. 
and South has I find been for a considerable time a thorn in the minds of 
many of the Southern members. Suspicion too has charged some impor- 
tant votes on the weight thrown by the present position of Congress into 
the Eastern Scale, and predicts that the Eastern members will never con- 
cur in any substantial provision or movement for a proper perman't seat 
for the National Government whilst they remain so much gratified in its 
temporary residence. These seem to have been the operative motives with 
those on one side who were not locally interested in the removal. On the 
other side the motives are obvious. Those of real weight were drawn from 
the apparent caprice with which Congress might be reproached, and par- 
ticularly from the peculiarity of the existing moment. 

I own that I think so much regard due to these considerations, that 
notwithstanding the powerful ones on the other side, I should have as- 
sented with great repugnance to the motion, and would even have voted 
against it if any probability had existed that by waiting for a proper time, 
a proper measure might not be lost for a very long time. The plan which 
I shd. have judged most eligible would have been to fix on the removal 
whenever a vote could be obtained, but so as that it should not take effect 
until the commencement of the ensuing federal year. And if an imme- 
diate removal had been resolved on, I had intended to propose such a 
change in the plan. No final question was taken in the case. Some pre- 
liminary questions showed that six States were in favor of the motion. 
Rh. Island the 7th. was at first on the same side, and Mr. Varnum one of 
her delegates continues so. His colleague was overcome by the solicita- 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 29, Apr. 18, May 4, 7; also no. 616, ante, and nos. 647, 
656, 759, post. William Samuel Johnson records " No Congress " Apr. 16 or 17. Under 
the 17th he notes, " Din'd Presidents ". 

5 Cf. no. 621, ante, and nos. 645-647, 651, post. 

6 See the Journals, Apr. 13 ; also no. 614, ante. 



580 Continental Congress 

tions of his Eastern brethren. As neither Maryland nor South Carolina 
were on the floor, it seems pretty evident that N. York has a very precarious 
tenure of the advantages derived from the abode of Congress. 7 .... 

638. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York Ap'l 16, 1787. 
Sir, 

Your Excellencies favor of the 4th Inst, enclosing a list of Pensioners 
came to hand this morning together with the talk to the Cherokee Indians 
alluded in that which I had the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a 
few days past. 2 

We shall do ourselves the honor to lay before Congress all the intelli- 
gence you have been pleased to transmit respecting the Cherokee Indians, 
as the best excuse for the steps you have pursued. It is certainly the duty 
of the Indian Agents to Correspond with the Governors of the different 
States, in cases where they may, respectively, be concerned, and I cannot 
account for the neglect of Doctor white, within whose district the Chero- 
kees are, in the present instance, except that his time and attention have 
been engrossed by the more Southern Nations, whose Hostilities upon 
the Frontiers of Georgia, more especially occasioned his appointment. 
We shall take care to call the attention of Congress to this circumstance. 
Congress, last Week, agreed to a circular letter to the States, upon the 
subject of the Treaty with Great Britain, which your Excellency will 
receive from the President. 8 

639. William Grayson to William Short. 1 

N. York Ap'l 16, 1787. 
D'r Sir, 

It is not for want of attention or respect that I have so long declined 
writing to you: my silence has been owing to a very different cause: 
I have understood that every letter which goes from this country to 
France is opened at some of the Post offices for the information of 
Government. 

A few hours sinc[e] I understood that Mr. Paine was to go in the French 
packett, in the morning so that I am much hurried. 

I am sorry to inform you that American affairs in general * wear the 
worst aspect you can possibly conceive. The public treasury without 
money, the people discontented 8 and the States either refusing or not 

T Cf. nos. 630. 636, ante. 
[638] « Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 269 (extract). 

* In his letter of Apr. 12 (no. 633, ante) Carrington acknowledged another letter 
of Randolph of Apr. 4, and in that of Apr. 13 (no. 635, ante) one of Mar. 22. A letter 
from Randolph to the delegates, Mar. 27, respecting the Cherokee Indians was laid be- 
fore Congress Apr. 18, and it may be the letter mentioned by Carrington as of Mar. 22. 

8 The circular letter of Apr. 13. See no. 634, ante. 
[639] 1 Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, II. 282. 
2 The words " in general " were substituted for " in fact . 

• Grayson added here, " and the laws in several of the States but faintly executed , 
but afterward drew his pen through the clause. 



April, 1/8/ 581 

complying with the requisitions of Congress : Jersey last year rejected 
the requisition : and Connecticut this : Only Virginia N. York and 
Pensylvany pay any thing tow'ds the support of Governm't through their 
means the Dutch Interest and Civil list of the U. States have been paid 
since I have been in Congress: the rest of the Union appear to be in an 
insensible 4 languor as to money supplies. 

The much talked off 5 per Ct. Impost has been rejected by N. York : 
and if she had passed it it would have availed little as Pensylvany has 
coupled it with the supplementary funds, and will I believe never separate 
the one from the other. 5 

Congress annually vote requisitions for the foreign and domestic inter- 
est which are totally disreguarded : It appear's to me there is a considerable 
party in every State agt. the payment of the domestic debt : and though 
this matter has shewed it self openly only in Massachusets yet I am 
satisfyed 6 a vigorous taxation would produce the same effect in many 
of the other States : Connecticut would have been in the situation of 
Massachusets if she had passed the requisition — I dont pretend to say 
that the domestic debt is the only cause of discontent : I believe a dislike 
to the payment of private debt to be equally prevalent : Rhode Island has 
issued paper money to satisfy her people which has depreciated amazingly : 
North and So. Carolina and N. York and Jersey did this some time 
since and Maryland is now about doing it : Upon the whole it seems to 
be the current opinion that however excellent democratical governments 
may be in some respects, the payment of money and the preservation of 
the public faith is not among their good qualifications : 

Congress have lately recommended a meeting of deputies to revise the 
foederal constitution : they are to assemble the 2nd Munday in May next 
at Philada. It is said Genl. Washington (if he attends) will be Presidt. ; 
if not Doctr. Franklin; There are as great expectations here from the 
result of their deliberations as I presume there are in France from the 
Notables : I believe the whole will terminate in nothing ; either the 
assembly will not agree, or if they do agree, the States will not ratify; 
our distresses are not sufficiently great to produce decisive alterations : 
Besides the more slack the government the better the people like it : of 
course they will not give up any power, which will prevent them from 
being compelled to make satisfaction to their Creditors : They may per- 
haps go as far as granting the regulation of commerce to Congress, under 
such conditions limitations and restrictions as in all probability will render 
the exercise of the power impracticable. 7 

Some of the gentlemen of the convention are here and I have conversed 
freely with them as to the reform; they are for going a great way: some 
of them are for placing Congress in loco of the King of the G. B. — 
besides their present powers : for giving them a perpetual duty on imports 
and exports : Figure to yourself how the States will relish the idea of a 
negative on their laws etc. etc. etc. 

4 The word, " stupid " was first written, then " insensible " substituted. 

5 See nos. 575, 595, 597, 599, ante. 

6 Erasure : " the same cause exists most generally and would be drawn forth by 
pressure of taxation ". 

7 Cf. nos. 594, 595. 597, 599, 627, 632, ante, 641, 642, 648, 649, 655, Post. 



582 Continental Congress 

Congress have lately determined on the representation of the Court 
of G. B. respecting the infraction of the treaty; and have recommended 
to the States in the most pointed terms to repeal all acts and parts of acts, 
which violates the same : 8 this though a right measure I am satisfied will 
create great uneasiness in most of the States and particularly in ours : 
where you know so many people will be affected. 

Our Negotiations with Spain goes on but slowly : indeed we have got 
into a dilemma which it will be hard to extricate ourselves from : A Part 
of Congress are for giving the Navigation of the Missisippi for 25 tts. 
Another part (nearly equal) are for no treaty with't the river: Our 
embarassment is great. The people on the Western waters are all in a 
ferment abt. it. 9 The treaty with Morocco is arrived. 10 With respect to 
Tripoli Tunis and Algiers people begin to think the same not worth the 
Candle : and I believe there will be no farther attempts made in that 
business. If we make a treaty today they may break it tomorrow and 
we have no fleet to punish or intimidate them. Besides we are far distant. 
Congress are I think beginning to recover from their treaty madness: 
Indeed it is high time. A late application from Van berkell respecting a 
law passed in Virga. in favor of France, has helped to open their Eyes. 11 
they begin to understand (though at this late hour) the doctrine of the 
right of the most favored Nation : they will eer long begin also to 
the folly of a weak disjointed nation contracting with a strong one, who 
can explain the contract as he pleases: 

An attempt was made a few days since to remove the session of Con^: 
to Philada. and lost by half a Vote: I expect the new Congress will sit 
at that place : ia 

The State of New York have passed a law declaring Vermont inde- 
pendant on certain conditions : " we shall oppose Kentucki to Vermont, 
and from this circumstance (as we are instructed by the State) it is n«>t 
improbable but both may get into the Confederation provided the Mi< 
sisippi business does not altogether detain Kentucki from the Union. I 
forgot to inform you that Spain claims almost all Kentucki. Indeed I 
dont know whether she does not go to Richmond: The treaty with 
Portugal is not yet arrived ; I am satisfied our Ministers did every thing 
in their power: though it is greatly to be lamented that we cannot send 
our flour there. 

Mr. Adams has requested leave to return to America — This will 1 
expect be granted. 14 Mr. Bond appointed by the Court of G. B. Com- 
missary and Consul, will be received only in the latter capacity, if at all. 1 '' 

8 See nos. 634-638, ante. 

9 Cf. nos. 614, 617, 625, 636, 637, ante, 640, 643, 645, Post. 

10 See nos. 630, 632, 635, attic, 641, 707, post. 

11 See nos. 602, 613, 614, 622, ante, 746, 0ojf. 

12 See nos. 630, 636-638, ante, 642, 643, 656, 661, post. 

13 Cf. nos. 609, 613, 635, ante. 

" See nos. 630, 632, 635, ante. 641, 702, 707, 711, 716, 724, 756, post. 

18 See no. 558, note 8, ante. Jay's report of Mar. 29 relative to the recognition of 
Phineas Bond as consul was then before Congress. On May 3 Congress resolved to recog- 
nize Bond as consul within the states specified in his commission, but withheld recognition 
of his commission as commissary for commercial affairs. On May 4 Secretary Thomson 
transmitted the resolutions to each of the five states (Library of Congress, Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 126; ibid., Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 133; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 145). 



April, 1/8/ 583 

There is a proposition now depending before Congress for sending 
Mr. Jefferson to Spain on particular business : but doubtful whether it 
will be carried. 16 You will consider this letter as perfectly confidential : 
if the packett does not go in the morning I will add to it as well as correct 
and copy it : If I have not time you must guess at the contents as well 
as you can. 

640. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell). 1 

New York the 18th ap'l 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

We have laid the papers respecting the seizure and confiscation of the 
property of Mr. Amis before Congress in obedience to the commands 
of the Legislature : 2 and it will probably be productive of some good 
to our Western citizens, as thereupon such a representation will be made 
on this business comprising in a general point of view our entire claim 
to the navigation of Mississippi, and the prospects of the citizens there 
founded on this their right, as will eventually we trust lead Congress to 
the adoption of some uniform decisive line of policy with Spain. The 
state of this business as communicated by our predecessors to the Legisla- 
ture is highly reprehensible, and those active therein seem in some measure 
desirous of finding a means to extricate themselves from their embarrass- 
ment. We shall do every thing in our power to facilitate it, as we foresee 
consequences serious and alarming to the peace and happiness of our 
Western citizens, and eventually of all the United States. Virginia and 
New Jersey have instructed their delegates in terms similar to ours : and 
the gentlemen now in Congress independant in their instructions are in 
opinion with us. 3 

We have received some resolutions or reather a report of a committee 
concurred with by our Legislature on the propriety of keeping up some 
troops in Davidson County " To prevent the Indians from taking any 
hostile resolutions in aid of the Northern Tribes." and we are " instructed 
to lay before the United States of America in Congress 4 assembled the 

Jay's reports may also be found in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 105-108. See 
further nos. 641, 642, post. The "Letters of Phineas Bond", Jan. 1, 1787, to Dec. 28, 1789, 
are in Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1896, I. 513-659. Several of the earlier letters 
pertain to his efforts to secure recognition. 

18 See Madison's motion, in the Journals, Apr. 18, and the report upon it by the 
secretary for foreign affairs Apr. 20. Cf. nos. 604, 605, 608, 614, 617, 625, 636, ante, 640, 
643, 645, 647, post. 

[640] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers (in the writing of Ashe, and signed by 
Blount, Hawkins, and Ashe) ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 676. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 30, Apr. 13, and nos. 604, ante, 646, 650, post. The com- 
munication from the North Carolina delegates to Congress Mar. 29 (Journals, Apr. 13) is 
in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 72, f. 269, and is endorsed by Thomson, " Papers of No. Caro- 
lina with 5 prayers enclosed Read 30 March 1787 Referred to the Sec'y for foreign 
affairs ". 

3 See no. 639, note 16, ante. 

4 In the printed text a line, "-gress .... leave ", has disappeared, and another 
line, from farther down in the text, has crept into its place, with some textual errors. 



584 Continental Congress 

necessity of this measure and to obtain leave to continue the same in 
service while the necessity exists." Your Excellency will readily see an 
ambiguity here which is very embarrassing to us, For if Congress are 
to judge of the necessity the Troops are not necessary as the " Necessity " 
dos not exist : Congress having lately thought proper to discharge all the 
troops raised under the resolution of October last except two companies 
of artillery as guards for the Magazines at Springfield and at West-Point : 
And on the other hand if the Legislature have views of their own and 
are of opinion that troops are necessary for the protection of our Western 
citizens, it would be [we?] presume to say have been proper so to have 
instructed us that we could bring forward the measure and obtain if prac- 
ticable the concurrance of Congress with the State. 

We have to request that if any other resolutions or acts of the assembly 
will throw any light on this business they may be sent forward as early 
as is practicable. 8 Congress have been necessitated to examine the in- 
fractions of the Treaty of peace with Great Britain, and to express them- 
selves after a dispassionate and deliberate examination in a firm decisive 
and unequivocal manner. The resolutions thereon and letter of Conj; 
Accompanying the same will be forwarded this post to your Excellency 
from the office of the Secretary of Congress. To add any thing on 
our parts to a subject so properly treated would be improper because 
unnecessary. 8 



France is invariably and unchangeably our friend, they have already 
made several alterations favourable to us and a Committee is appointed 
to report such other favourable regulations as may be most beneficial to 
our Commerce. Of these you shall be informed from time to time as the) 
occur. 7 .... 

641. William Blount to Thomas Blount. 1 

Newyork April 18th 1787. 

.... As to the Politicks or People of North Carolina I know but 

very little about them except that your friends are all well. Congress 

are doing very little Business in general tho they have lately passed some 

Resolution respecting the Treaty of Peace that will do them much Cre lit 

8 The report of the committee of the House of Commons, " to whom was referred 
Sundry Papers respecting Indian Treaties and Indian Affairs", is in Journal of the II 
of Commons, Jan. 6, 1787, and in N. C. State Recs., XVIII. 462-465 (see no. 508, n< 
ante). That part of the report which relates to raising troops for Davidson County 
pp. 464-465. For the action of Congress in dismissing the troops raised in accordance with 
the resolution of Oct. 20 see the Journals, Apr. 9; also no- 
extract from the same report, relating to the Indian treaties, was laid before Congress 
by the North Carolina delegates Apr. 25, with a motion that Congress disavow certain 
features of the treaties with the Cherokee and Chickasaw Indians. See no. 719, post. 

• Cf. nos. 634 (note 2), 636-639, ante, 645, 647, post. An omitted paragraph is a 
brief summation of the obstacles to obtaining a commercial treaty with Great Britain. 

7 The reference is probably to the committee on the Virginia resolutions of Nov. 8 
and 22. See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. 1, 13, May 8; cf. nos. 600, 622, ante, 654. 656, post. 

A brief letter of the same day from the delegates to the governor (N. C. State Rccs., 
XX. 679) transmits by the hand of Robert Stewart, agent of Constable, Ruckcr, and 
Company, a copy of their letter of Mar. 18 (19), together with a copy of the agreement 
for the sale of the tobacco. See no. 615, ante. 

[64i] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm.. John Gray Blount Papers. 



April, 1787 585 

in Europe. 2 Much is expected from the Convention at Philadelphia which 
is to meet on the 2d Monday in May which I shall attend and shall go 
from thence to Carolina. Mr. Adams has [requested] leave to return to 
America after the Time for which he was appointed shall have expired 
about 10 or 12 Months to come which he will certainly obtain and it is 
equally certain that Colonel Smiths Appointment will not be renewed 3 
so that he may return also. 

Mr. John Gray Blount P ' ' ' 

The foregoing is a Copy of a Letter I this day addressed to Thomas 
Blount by a Vessel which sails in the Morning for Liverpool. You will 
readily see Reasons sufficient for my sending it to you therefore shall not 
assign any. 

642. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

New york April 18th 17 [87]. 
.... I am in Expectation of receving [sic] an Appointment to at- 
tend the Convention at Philadelphia which I wish to attend in my Way 
Home. 2 I fear Molsey thinks my stay long I beg you to find some good 
excuses for [m]e. A few days past a Motion was made by N C for the 
Adjournment of Congress from this to Philadelphia in certain Hope that 
it would have been carried but before the question was taken it was dis- 
covered that [the] re were only six States and an ha [If for] it half R. I. 
having apastatized so the [de]lays and will yet I hope be carried We 
[only] w[a]nt Maryland and then it is sure [to be] carried — this is an 
Event I much wish. 3 I shall thereby pay sundry Stat[es] their Incivility 
which lay east of the North [ ] 4 . . . . 

643. James Madison to James Monroe. 1 
^ <-.. New York April 19. 1787. 

.... The business of the Mississippi will I think come to a point in 
a few days. You shall know the result in due time. 2 

A motion was lately made to remove shortly to Philada. six States 
would have been for it. Rh. Island was so at first, and would have been 

2 See nos. 634, 636-640, ante. 

3 Blount first wrote " at least to him ", then erased these words. See no. 630, note 
5, ante; also nos. 702, 707, 711, 724, 756, post. See also Jefferson to Madison Jan. 30, 
1787 (Writings, IV. 361), in which he characterizes Smith, favorably as regards his 
character, somewhat unfavorably as regards his temperament. 

[642] l N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 Blount was appointed in place of Governor Caswell. See N. C. State Rccs., XX. 
630, 634, 636, 666, 682, 683 ; also no. 662, post. 

8 According to the Journals the motion was made (Apr. 10) by Dyre Kearny of 
Delaware and seconded by William Blount. See nos. 630, 636-639, ante, 643, 656, 661, post. 

4 A corner of the manuscript is torn off. 

[643] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 352; Letters, I. 315. 

2 See Madison's motion, Apr. 18, and the report of the secretary for foreign affairs 
Apr. 20 ; cf. no. 639, note 16, ante, and nos. 645, 647, post. Resolutions of the Virginia 
assembly, together with a memorial to assembly, respecting the navigation of the Missis- 
sippi were laid before Congress Apr. 19. 



586 Continental Congress 

a seventh. One of the delegation was overpowered by exertions of his 
Eastern brethren. I need not rehearse to you the considerations which 
operated on both sides. Your conjectures will not mistake them. My own 
opinion is that there are strong objections agst. the moment [movement ?] , 
objections which nothing would supersede but the difficulty of bringing 
the sense of the Union to an efficient vote in Congress, and the danger 
of losing altogether a proper measure by waiting for a proper time. A 
middle way would have been my choice; that is to fix Philada. for the 
meeting of the ensuing Cong's and to remain here in the mean time. 
This would have given time for all preliminary arrangements, would have 
steered clear of the Convention, and by selecting a natural period for the 
event, and transferring the operation of it to our successors in office, all 
insinuations of suddenness, and of personal views, would have been 
repelled. 8 .... 

644. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (James Bowdoin). 1 

New-york 22d Ap. 17 
Sir, 

The law passed in the last session of the general Court relative to the 
running of the line between Massachusetts and New York, was com- 
municated to the legislature of this State, and in consequence thereof they 
passed a law in conformity with that of Massachusetts, notwithstanding 
they had previously enacted a law in some degree different. 

We have a letter from the Commissioners appointed to execute this 
business, proposing to proceed in the Months of June and July. We shall 
in reply, unite with the Delegates of New York, and inform them that 
this time will be quite satisfactory, and that they will be attended by 
suitable persons from the respective States, we will transmit a copy of 
the commissioner's Letter for your Excellency's information by the next 
post. 2 

645. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton. 1 

New York April 22, 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 I inclose a late Act of Congress which will shew you the 
light in which they view and inculcate a compliance with the Treaty 
of peace. We were not unaware of the bitterness of the pill to many 
of our countrymen, but national considerations overruled that objection. 
An investigation of the subject had proved that the violations on our 

8 See nos. 582, 583, 630, 636-639, 642, ante, also the Journals, May 10, and nos. 
656, 661, post. 

[644] » Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll.. M. O. C. (signed by Gorham and King). 

2 See Bowdoin to the delegates May 16, Mass. Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., 
VI. 186. 

[645] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 353; Letters, I. 316. 

2 The omitted passages pertain to the Massachusetts insurrection and to the 
federal convention. 



April, 1787 587 

part were not only most numerous and important, but were of earliest 
date. And the assurances on the other part are explicit that a reparation 
of our wrongful measures shall be followed by an immediate and faithful 
execution of the Treaty by Great Britain. 3 

Congress are at present deliberating on the most proper plan for dispos- 
ing of the Western lands, and providing a criminal and civil administration 
for the Western settlements beyond the Ohio. The latter subject involves 
great difficulties. On the former also opinions are various. Between 6 
and 700,000 acres have been surveyed in Townships and are to be sold 
as soon as they shall be duly advertised. The sale was at first to have been 
distributed throughout the States. This plan is now exchanged for the 
opposite extreme. The sale is to be made where Cong's sit. Unquestion- 
ably reference ought to have been had in fixing on the place, either to the 
Center of the Union or to the proximity of the premises. In providing 
for the unsurveyed lands, the difficulty arises from the Eastern attachm't 
to townships, and the Southern to indiscriminate locations. 4 A copper 
coinage was agreed on yesterday to the amount of upwards of two hundred 
thousand dollars. 15 per Ct. is [to] be drawn into the federal Treasury 
from this operation. 5 

Our affair with Spain is on a very delicate footing. It is not easy to say 
what precise steps would be most proper to be taken on our side, and 
extremely difficult to say what will be actually taken. 6 .... 

3 The reference is to the resolutions of Mar. 21 and the circular letter of Apr. 13. 
Cf. nos. 634 (note 2), 636-640, ante, 647, 688, 716, post. 

4 Respecting the ordinance for disposing of the western lands, see the Journals, 
Mar. 20, Apr. 5, 21, 25, and nos. 621, 637, ante, 646, 647, post; also the Bibliographical 
Notes under Apr. 21, 25. A broadside of the resolutions relative to selling western lands 
is in Md. Hist. Spa, Red Book, XXXI. 30; a pen copy is ibid., Red Book,, IX. 80. Respect- 
ing the ordinance for the government of the western territory, see the Journals, Apr. 26, 
May 9, 10, July 9, 11-13; also nos. 647, 696, post. 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 9, 20, 21, and the Bibliographical Notes under Apr. 21. 
A broadside of the resolutions for coining copper is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXXI. 
29; a pen copy is ibid., Red Book, IX. 78. Secretary Thomson's circular letter, Apr. 25, 
transmitting the resolutions of Apr. 21 and that of Apr. 23 granting the franking privilege 
to members of the federal convention, is ibid., Red Book, IX. 81, and XXXI. 27. The 
resolution of Apr. 23 is ibid., IX. 79, and XXXI. 28. The circular letter is in the Secre- 
tary's Letter-Book, p. 119; the letter and the resolves are in N. C. State Recs., XX. 684- 
686, and in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 141-143. Cf. nos. 471 (note 9), 506, ante, 646, 759, post. 

Some of the propositions for coining copper discussed by the board of treasury in their 
report Apr. 9 had been laid before Congress in 1785 (see, for instance, the Journals, 
May 13, Aug. 18, Dec. 27, 1785 ; cf. ibid., Apr. 8, Aug. 8, Sept. 20, Oct. 16, 1786). The 
proposition of James Jarvis, that which formed the basis of the committee report of 
Apr. 20, 21, was placed before Congress Nov. 1, 1786. It was probably concerning this 
proposition that General Knox wrote to Jeremiah Wadsworth Oct. 30, 1786, drawing from 
Wadsworth a reply Jan. 7, 1787, in which he remarks. " The propositions for Coining Cop- 
per are not my own on the Contrary they are one of my worst Enemies. ... I know the 
proposer and the proposals you allude to" (Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XVIII. 123, 
dated 1786). Wadsworth indicates that he also was making some propositions. In the 
same volume of the Knox Papers (f. 93) are some "Proposals for Coining Copper for 
the United States ", in five articles, but the document is not in Wadsworth's writing. 

6 See no. 643, ante, and nos. 646, 647, post. William Samuel Johnson records in 
his diary under Apr. 18, 19, and 20 that he was " at Congress ", and under the 21st, " Cold 
and Snow at Do. Din'd Gardoqui's ". Apr. 23 to 26 he was " at Congress " ; Apr. 27 and 28 
(Friday and Saturday) there was " No Congress ". 



44 



588 Continental Congress 

646. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

New York April 22, 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

I have the pleasure of your's of the 11 inst. acknowledging mine of 
the 2d. 2 

Cong's are deliberating on the plan most eligible for disposing of the 
western territory not yet surveyed. Some alterations will probably be 
made in the ordinance on that subject, in which the idea of townships 
will not be altogether abandoned, but rendered less expensive. An Act 
passed yesterday providing for the sale of the surveyed lands, under the 
direction of the Treasury board. The price is to be one dollar at the lowest 
the sale is to be duly advertised in all the States, but the office is to be 
opened and held where Cong's shall sit. The original plan of distributing 
the sale through all the States was certaintly objectionable. To confine 
it to one place, and that so remote as N. Y. is both from the center of the 
Union, and the premises in question, can not be less so. 8 

The inhabitants of the Illinois complain of the land-jobbers, particularly 
Pentecost and Clarke, who are purchasing titles among them. Those of 
St. Vincents complain of the defect of criminal and civil justice among 
them, as well as of military protection. These matters are before Cong's 
and are found to be infinitely embarrassing. 4 

A copper coinage was agreed on yesterday to the amount of two hundred 
and odd thousand dollars. It is to be executed under a contract between 
the Treasury Board and the Coiner, and under the inspection of a person 
to be appointed on the part of the U. S. — 15 per Ct. is to be drawn from 
this operation into the federal Treasury." .... 

[646] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 637. 

a Randolph's letter to Madison Apr. 11 is in Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 
A letter from Randolph to Carrington Apr. 11 is in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 
9375- F° r one thing he fears the increasing popularity of paper money and is inclined to 
ascribe it to the proposed enforcement of the payment of British debts. He also dis- 
cusses the coming Federal Convention, Rhode Island's anti-federalism, etc. 

8 Cf. no. 645, ante. 

♦The Illinois memorial (from the inhabitants of Cahokia) was referred to a 
committee Mar. 29, and the Post St. Vincent memorial (to the Kentucky legislature) 
was referred to the same committee Apr. 10. The committee brought in a report May 7 
and the following day was assigned for its consideration, but it does not appear to have 
been done. The committee proposed the appointment of a commissioner through whom a 
form of local administration should be instituted for the settlements at Post St. Vincent 
Kaskaskias, and Illinois, and it was probably because Congress had qnder consideration the 
larger problem of government for the western territory that the committee's proposition 
was dropped. See, for instance, the Journals, Apr. 26, May 9. Cf. nos. 483, 613, 623, ante, 
647, 650, 677, 696, post. The Cahokia memorial (July 16, 1786) is printed in Alvord, Illi- 
nois Historical Collections, II. 580-589. With it is a letter from Joseph Labuxiere to 
Congress July 17. The extract of a letter from Dorsey Pentecost to La Croix, Nov. 16, 
1785, is ibid., p. 621. The queries by the committee to Gabriel Cerre are ibid., V. 
(Kaskaskia Records), pp. 383-385. The committee report of May 7 is ibid., pp. 399-401. 
Memorials continued to pour » n t° Congress, and much of the time of that body during 
1788 was occupied with them. See ibid., pp. 43 1 -495. 

6 See no. 645, note 5, ante. 



April, 1787 589 

647. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

April 23, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 Congress have agreed to Mr. Jays report on the treaty of peace 
and to an address which accompanies it. Copies of both will no doubt 
be sent you from his department. 8 The Legislature of this State which 
was sitting at the time and on whose account the acts of Congress were 
hurried through, has adjou[r]ned till Jany. next without deciding on 
them. This is an ominous example to the other States, and must weaken 
much the claim on Great Britain of an execution of the Treaty on her 
part as promised in case of proper steps being taken on ours. Virginia 
we foresee will be among the foremost in seizing pretexts for evading 
the injunctions of Congress. S. Carolina is not less infected with the 
same spirit. The present deliberations of Congress turn on 1. the sale 
of the western lands, 2. the government of the Western settlements within 
the federal domain, 3. the final settlement of the accounts between the 
Union and its members, 4. the [treaty with Spain]. 

1. Between six and seven hundred thousand acres have been surveyed 
in townships under the land ordinance, and are to be sold forthwith. The 
place where Congress sit is fixed for the sale. Its excentricity and remote- 
ness from the premises will I apprehend give disgust. On the most eligible 
plan of selling the unsurveyed residue Congress are much divided; the 
Eastern States being strongly attached to that of townships, notwithstand- 
ing the expence incident to it ; the Southern being equally biassed in favor 
of indiscriminate locations, notwithstanding the many objections agst. 
that mode. The dispute will probably terminate in some kind of compro- 
mise, if one can be hit upon. 4 

2. The government of the settlements on the Illinois and Wabash is a 
subject very perplexing in itself; and rendered more so by our ignorance 
of many circumstances on which a right judgment depends. The in- 
habitants at those places, claim protection agst. the savages, and some 
provision for both criminal and civil justice. It appears also that land 
jobbers are among them who are likely to multiply litigations among indi- 
viduals, and by collusive purchases of spurious titles, to defraud the 
United States. 5 

3. The settlement of the public accounts has long been pursued in 
varied shapes, and with little prospect of success. The idea which has long 
been urged by some of us, seems now to be seriously embraced, of estab- 
lishing a plenipotentiary tribunal for the final adjustment of the mutual 
claims on the great and simple principle of equity. An ordinance for this 
purpose has been reported by the Treasury Board and has made some 

[647] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, II. 357; Papers, II. 639. 

2 The omission relates to the Massachusetts insurgents and some personal matters. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 13, and nos. 634, 636-640, 645, ante. 

4 See nos. 637, 645, 646, ante, 651, 696, post. 

5 See no. 646, note 4, ante. In the second part of the paragraph Madison doubtless 
alludes to the affair referred to in no. 650, post. 



590 Continental Congress 

progress through Congress. It is likely to be much retarded by the thin- 
ness of Congress, as indeed is almost every other matter of importance. 6 

4. The [Spanish negociation] 7 is in a very [ticklish situation]. You 
have been already apprized of the [vote of seven states last fall] for 
[ceding] the [Mississippi] for a [term of years]. From sundry circum- 
stances it was [infered that Jay was] not [proceeding under this usurped 
authority]. A late instruction to [him to lay the state] of the [negocia- 
tion before Congress] has [discovered] that he has [adjusted] with 
[Guardoqui] an [article] for [suspending] the [use of the Mississippi] by 
[the citizens of the United States]. The report however leaves it [some- 
what doubtful how far United States] are [committed by this step] and 
a [subsequent report 8 of] the [secretary] on the [seizure of Spanish 
property] in the [western country] and on [information of discontents] 
touching the [occlusion of the Mississippi] shews that the probable 
[consequences of the measure perplex him extremely]. It was neverthe- 
less conceived by the [instructed delegations] to be [their duty to pi 
a revocation] of the [step taken] in some [form which would least offend 
Spain] and [least irritate] the [patrons of] the [vote of seven States]. 
Accordingly [a motion was made] to the [following effect] that the 
[present state of the negociation with Spain and of] the affairs of United 
States [rendered it expedient] that [you should proceed under a special 
commission to Madrid] for the [purpose of making such representations] 
as [might at once impress] on that [court our friendly disposition] and 
[induce it to relax] on the [contested points], and that the [proper com- 
munications] and [explanations] should [be made to Guardoqui relative] 
to this [change in] the [mode of conducting the negociation]. Thi> 
[motion was referred] to [Mr. Jay] whose [report disapproves of it]. 
In this state the [matter lies]. Eight [States only being present no 
effective vote] is to be [expected]. It may notwithstanding be incumbent 
[on us to try some question] which will at least [mark the paucity of 
States who abet] the [obnoxious project. Massachusetts] and [New 
York] alone of the present [States are under that] description; and 
[Connecticut and New Hamp. alone] of [the absent. Maryland] and 
[South Carolina] have heretofore been on the [right side]. Their [future 
conduct] is somewhat problimatical. The opinion of [New Hampshire] is 
only [conjectured]. The [conversion of Rhode Island] countenan* 
[hope that she too] may in this instance [desert the New England 
standard] 

• See the Journals, Mar. 29, Apr. 18, May 4, 7; also nos. 616, 637, ante, 656, 759, 
776, 926, post. 

1 Bracketed words are written in cipher. Concerning the Spanish negotiation see 
nos. 636, 639, 643, 645, ante, 651, 652, 661, 691, 697, post', cf. Madison's Notes of Debates 
Apr. 18 to 26 (Journals, pp. 734-739)- 

8 There is no cipher for the word " report ". 



April, 1787 591 

648. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (John Collins). 1 

New York, April 24, 1787. 
Sir, 

.... It is probable that no business, of very essential importance, 
will be conducted for some time to come, as the public attention is very 
much engrossed upon the meeting of the delegates in convention, some 
of whom are members of Congress. This period forms a most serious 
crisis in our political existence ! The avowed object of this new assembly, 
sanctioned by general opinion, and pointing to the great interests of the 
whole Union, are too momentous not to claim the attention of the State 
of Rhode Island! How far an intire adherence to the Articles of Con- 
federation may justify the policy of any one or two States in remaining 
indifferent spectators to the probable events of these arrangements, we 
shall not presume to decide ; but, common safety, and the relation a part 
bears to the whole should have their due influence on this occasion. As 
representatives of the State in the General confederacy, we feel no motives 
but those which are directed to the honor and happiness of all our con- 
stituents, and therefore do not urge, but offer our sentiments, that the 
resolution of Congress for appointing delegates in the convention ought 
to be complied with. 

The Legislature of this State have ordered a prosecution against the 
printers in consequence of our letter to Governor Clinton, should we 
request it. In this matter we acted deliberately, and, as we conceive, with 
propriety. The peculiarity and delicacy of our situation required an asser- 
tion of the dignity of our State, or a submission to the most debasing 
humility. Our views are fully answered, and we have it now in our power 
to gratify our feelings to the extremes of generosity. 2 .... 

[648] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, vol. XX., p. 68; Staples, R. I. 
in Cont. Cong., p. 580; R. I. Recs., X. 246. 

2 The New York Daily Advertiser of Apr. 6 published, with the characterization, 
" Quintescence of villainy ", what purported to be a report of the proceedings of the 
recent session of the Rhode Island legislature ; whereupon the delegates wrote to Gov- 
ernor Clinton, requesting that he cause the editor, Francis Childs, " to be reprehended, 
agreeably to the laws of the State over which you preside ". " This daring insult to a 
sovereign State ", declared the delegates, " they consider as the most scandalous of libels " 
(Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 579). On the same day they wrote to Governor Collins, 
transmitting a copy of the offending paper and a copy of their letter to Governor Clinton. 
" We represent a sovereign State ", they remarked, " and will not suffer its honor to be 
sullied with impunity" (ibid.). Clinton communicated the letter to the legislature, which 
took no action, while editor Childs was only stirred to emit further scathing remarks 
upon the Rhode Island proceedings and to argue at some length the question whether he 
had been guilty of scandalous libel as charged. What he had printed, he said, " was ex- 
tracted with the caption, verbatim from the Massachusetts Centinel of March 28 ... . 
and which publication excepting the words ' Quintescence of Villainy ' first appeared in 
a Rhode-Island paper, printed at Newport by Peter Edes " (Nezv York Daily Advertiser, 
Apr. 9). 



X 



592 Continental Congress 

649. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

Dear Sir, New York A P ril 2 4> *7*7- 

. . . . You have doubtless been informed of the measure of a general 
Convention which was proposed by Virginia in the fall session, for re- 
vising and, thoroughly, amending the Confederation. Some of the States 
hesitated upon the adoption of the measure, as being unauthorised by 
Congress, and, of course, improper, to remove every possible difficulty, 
Congress came to a resolution in February, recommending its adoption ; * 

650. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 
Sir, A P ril 30. 1787. 

I have the honor to inform yr. Exc'y that the Act of the Council of 
the commonwealth of Virginia of 28 feby. with the papers enclosed has 
been duly received and communicated to the United States in Congress 
Assembled. 2 

I have now the honor of transmitting herewith enclosed an Act for 
dispossessing those men who have taken possession of post St. Vincents. 
Though this is a public Act, yet it is thought best not to publish it until 
the Secy, at War shall have made arrangements for carrying it into exe- 
cution, but as the citizens of your commonwealth are principally concerned, 
it is at the desire of your delegates forwarded to you.* 

651. William Grayson to James Monroe. 1 

Dear sir, N YoRK A P'* 3°th> 1787. 

.... Affairs go here very slowly. Mr. Jay has reported to Congress 
that he and Gardoqui have adjusted an article, in which the navigation 
of a certain river is giv'n up: that Mr. Gardoqui has wrote for instruc- 
tions respecting the limits; the English of the matter is that Rendon has 
gone to Spain on this business, and if that Court gives up the limits, I 
have no doubt but the design is to conclude the treaty immed'y several 
attempts to reverse the proceedings of the several States have been made 

[649] J Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 568, 585, 580, 590, 594, 595, 597, 599, 603, 604, 608, 613, 619, 621, ante. 
[650] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 119. 

2 These papers were laid before Congress Mar. 28 and were referred Mar. tt 
to the secretary for foreign affairs, whose report, embodying the papers, is in the Journals, 
Apr. 13. See nos. 604, 613, 623, 640, 646, 647, ante. 

8 The act enclosed was that of Apr. 24. While the papers referred to above were 
under consideration the secretary at war, in a letter dated Apr. 16 (Journals, Apr. 18) 
brought to the attention of Congress the usurpation at Post St. Vincents, as reported by 
Major Wyllys. The matter was referred back to the secretary at war for a report, and 
on Apr. 20 he proposed the measure which Congress adopted on Apr. 24. See further 
the letter of Secretary Knox in the Journals, July 12. 

[651] * Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution. 
II. 418 (extract). 



May, 1787 593 

in vain. It is true that we have got Rhode Island and Jersey, but then 
it is said confidently that So. Carolina and Maryland when they get on 
the floor will be against us : I think the chances for Delaware are in our 
favor: If all the States were represented I believe we should carry the 
point : but there is no expectation that this will be the case during this 
year: in the mean time Rendon arrives and the question put upon the 
ratification, which I think will go against us. 2 .... 

Congress have agreed to sell the townships that have been surveyed at 
this place. We have made an unsuccessful attempt at indiscriminate loca- 
tions. A treaty with Morocco is concluded — the Count de Vergennes 
dead — a close alliance talked of between the King of Prussia and the 
Emperor — Vermont and Great Britain upon close and secret terms 

652. James Madison to William Irvine. 1 

Philada. May 5th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

When I left N. York which was on Thursday last nothing had been 
done in the business which you had particularly at heart. A motion was 
made soon after you left us, to the effect which you urged. It was referred 
to the department to which the subject of it belonged. The report dis- 
approved of the expedient, and it was found needless to pursue it farther 
in Congress. The next proposition was that the invalidity of the unconsti- 
tutional vote, should be declared, as an instruction to the proper depart- 
ment. To the admission of this proposition, the rule formerly entered into, 
was urged in bar. It was then proposed that the rule should be repealed. 
This also was refused by those whose concurrence in so thin a Cong's was 
necessary. No final vote therefore was taken on any of the motions, and 
in this state I left the matter. Whether any further attempt will be made 
in the present thin state of Cong's or when a full Cong's will be together, 
are questions which I can not answer. 2 Most of the other business re- 
mained in the state you left it. I shall not return to N. York before the 
meeting of the Convention which is to commence on monday week. Mary- 
land has appointed deputies to this assembly. R. Island has refused to 
app't before you set out from N. York. Connecticut has not yet decided on 
the subject. All the other States as you know have concurred. 

2 Cf. no. 647, ante, and nos. 661, 697, post. William Samuel Johnson notes in his 
diary under Apr. 30, " No Cong's at Court of App's and Consultat'n ...."; under May 1. 
" No Cong's Court of App'l " ; the 2d and 3d he was " at Congress ". The Journal record 
of May 3 does not however show Johnson's presence. Except in one instance (see no. 663, 
note 3, post) he did not again attend until Sept. 20. 

[652] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers, IX. (addressed, "The Honorable General 
Irvine at Carlisle To the [care] of Mr. J no. Holmes Merch't Philadelphia"). 

2 Madison's allusion in the beginning of the letter is to his own motion of Apr. 18 
for the transfer of the Spanish negotiations to Jefferson, who was to proceed to Madrid 
for the purpose, and to Jay's adverse report thereon Apr. 20. The Journals contain no 
record of the proposition respecting the " invalidity of the unconstitutional vote " prior 
to Madison's departure on May 3. On May 10 however a motion to repeal the rule of 
Sept. 1, 1786, was made by the Georgia delegates and was carried. Concerning these 
proceedings see no. 656, post. 



594 Continental Congress 

653. Thomas Rodney to the President of Delaware 

(Thomas Collins). 1 

Sir P. G. a May 6th 1787. 

I reed, a few Lines from you yesterday respecting Attendance at Con- 
gress. Tho I never in my life Solicited posts of either honor or profit, 
yet as my Country lias been Liberal in bestowing, it has ever been my dis- 
position to discharge the duties of every publick Trust that has been Con- 
fided in me, with Honor and Integrity, to the best of my Abilities. Agre- 
ably to this disposition, and to the request of a Major part of the Mem- 
bers of the legislature, at their late Session, I was at the pains so to dis- 
pose my own business, that it wou'd admit my Attending Congress from 
the 20th of April to the first of June, but the Conduct of the State Trea- 
surer in not furnishing the advance directed by the legislature, has laid 
me under the necessity of Serving the publick in this Instance at my own 
immediate expence or leave it Undone. It was to prevent such Imbarras- 
ments which had been Experienced the last year, that the legislature di- 
rected the advance of five hundred Dollars to each of the Deli gates on 
their going to Congress; but their Directions are Vain unless Executed. 
This I am persuaded will be a sufficient apology to them when they meet 
for my non attendance In Congress. 8 

654. Henry Lee, jr., to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 
Sir, 

In conformity to the usage of the delegation, I had the honor to address 
the executive eight days past, since which period nothing interesting has 
occurred. 

Public business of every sort progress lento pede, owing to the irregular 
representation in Congress, or in other words, to the radical inadequacy of 
the government to its objects. 

[653] ' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Society Coll. 

2 Poplar Grove. 

8 This statement would appear to indicate that Rodney did not attend Congress 
at this time (the Delaware credentials — Mitchell, Rodney, and Bedford — were presented 
by Mitchell Jan. 18), and there is no record that he attended at any time in 1787. Below 
in his account for attendance in 1781 and 1787 (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.) ; 
but he probably wrote 1787 in error for 1786. He did attend in 1786 from May 2 to May 
20. There is nothing to indicate when this statement was prepared, but evidently not earlier 
than 1787. 

" The Dalaware State to Thomas Rodney Dr. 

1781. To one hundred days going to and from and Service in Congress £100.0.0 

1787. To Thirty One days going to and from and Service in Congress at 40/ 60.0.0 

£160.0.0 

By Cash reed, of Rober[t] Bryan Esqr. Treasurer of N. C £100.0.0 

By Cash reed, of James Tilton Esqr. State Treasurer 60.0.0 

£160.0.0 
E. E. Per 

Thomas Rod- 
E. McComb Esqr. A. of D. [Addressed:] Eleazer McComb Esqr. Wilmington." 

[654l 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. Slate Papers, IV. 281 (as from 
"H. Cary Lee, JVr"). 



May, 1787 595 

We are now flattered with the prospect of nine states, which rare event, 
we will not fail, to use in bringing into view the meeting of commercial 
commissioners deputed by the states of Virginia and Maryland. 2 the re- 
port of the death of the count de Vergennes is since confirmed by letters 
from Mr. Jefferson. This celebrated statesman is succeeded by the Mar- 
quis of Montmorin a particular friend and coadjutor of the departed 
premier, which precludes the probability of change in the political system 
of France. 

New York, May 7th, 1787. 

655. William Samuel Johnson to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Stratford 9th Mav, 1787. 
S'r, 

I had the Honor to receive yr. Excell'ys favour of the 21st Ult : 2 soon 
after the Hon'e Mr. Mitchell left N York and in consequence thereof con- 
tinued there, in daily expectation of Mr. Sturgis's arrival, till the latter 
end of last Week, when I came here, expecting, however, to find him ready 
in a few Days to return with me to Congress. Soon after my Arrival here 
I found that Mr. Sturgis was at Hartford. This renders it doubtful what 
part I am to take, whether to return to N York and expect a Colleague to 
continue the Representation of the State in Congress, or go on to Hart- 
ford. I beg therefore yr. Excell'ys direction upon the subject. Nothing 
very material had occur'd in Congress after Mr. Mitchells departure. Dele- 
gates had arrived from Maryland, so that I left eight States Assembled. 
The Meeting of the Convention next Monday will probably take off one 
or two States. I shall be prepar'd to pursue yr. Excell's directions, only 
observing that if I am to return to N York, Money will be necessary from 
the Treasury for Expences. 

656. Roger Alden to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

New York, May 13th, 1787. 
Hon'd Sir, 

I reed, yours enclosing a letter to General Parsons, which I delivered to 
him and another to Mr. Verplank, and was happy to hear that you and 
the family were all well. 

I have been very busily employed since you and Mr. Thomson left 
town, 2 and had I been more accustomed to do the business, I should have 

2 Nine states were assembled that same day (May 7), and on the following day 
the Virginia proposition for an annual meeting of commercial commissioners of Virginia 
and Maryland was again brought forward and rejected. See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. I, 
13, May 8, and no. 600, note 3, ante ; also no. 657, post. 

[655] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. ; Conn. Hist. Soc., Johnson Papers, 
Susquehanna Lands, no. 42 (draft). 

2 The draft of Johnson's letter is written on the back of Governor Huntington's 
letter of Apr. 21. Huntington stated that he had notified Mr. Sturges to attend Congress. 
[656] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 123. 

2 Johnson says (no. 655, ante) that he left " the latter end of last Week " (May 3 to 
5). Thomson probably left about the same time, as the entries in the Journals, beginning 



596 Continental Congress 

enjoyed more pleasure in discharging my duty, but I believe that I have 
made no mistakes, and have the satisfaction to be told that I do it very 
well — The ordinance for appointing a board of commissioners to settle 
the public accounts, 8 and the proceedings on the motion for adjournment 
have been the most perplexing, and some of my friends, anticipating my 
wishes, were kind enough to advise and assist me. 

On Monday last 9 States were represented by the return of Mr. Mitchell 
from Delaware, on Tuesday the first trial of power appeared by a Motion 
for the repeal of the order of Sept 1st 1786, respecting the operation of 
the previous Question, this was effected on Thursday following, and suc- 
ceeded by Mr. Kearny's motion for adjournment.* the debates continued 
till four oClock, and the Jersey Members, being a little impatient, having 
gone to dine, prevented any decision, the next morning opened with the 
Mississippi business, on the application of Mr. Jay for express instruc- 
tions. 5 after long debates the letter was referred to a committee of 5, 
between three and four oClock. the Motion for adjournment was taken up. 

May 3, were made by other hands. Thomson wrote to Jefferson Apr. 28, " I am obliged 
to leave town in a day or two and expect to be some weeks absent" (Library of Con- 
gress, Jefferson Papers; ibid., Thomson Papers, vol. II.; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: 
Revolutionary Papers, I. 240). He was still in Philadelphia June 6 (ibid., p. 241). He 
appears to have been in his office again June 21 and resumed the entries in the Journals 
June 29. See also nos. 685, 689, post. 

8 See the Journals, May 4, 7 ; also no. 647, note 6, ante. With a circular letter of 
May 25 the board of treasury transmitted to the several states the ordinance of Mav 7 
for the settlement of accounts (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 146, 155; N. C. State Recs., Xa. 
694, 705)- Cf. nos. 759, 776, post. 

* See the Journals, May 10, and nos. 647, 652, ante. There is no record in the Jour- 
nals Tuesday, May 8, of the motion for the repeal of the order of Sept. 1, 1786, but it does 
appear on Thursday, May 10 (Madison states in his letter of May 5 that such a motion 
had been made before his departure, May 3). By the last statement Alden means that the 
vote on the repeal was succeeded, or followed, by Kearny's motion for adjournment. Cf. 
the Journals, Apr. 10; also see nos. 630, 636-639, 642, 643, ante, 661, 681, post. 

Jay wrote to John Adams May 12 : "A motion has lately been made in Congress to re- 
move to Philadelphia, and the party who supported it persevere in pushing it from day 
to day. They are not joined by a single member from either of the Eastern States, and 
yet there is reason to apprehend that they will carry their point. No other motive for 
their strange measure is publicly assigned by them, except that Philadelphia is more 
central than New York. Several important affairs which ought to have been despatched 
have given place to this unfortunate contest, so that I can by this conveyance send you 
little of importance." Correspondence of Jay, III. 246; Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
II. 727. 

Arthur Lee wrote to General Washington May 13 : " The expected removal of Con- 
gress to Philadelphia, has again faild by one vote. I am inclind to think, that the more 
this step is considered, the fewer Advocates it will find. The commercial Cities of our 
State, are struggling against the vast superiority which Philadelphia acquird during the 
war. So great an addition of money and influence, as the residence of Congress woud give, 
to the Merchants of that place ; woud I apprehend give them a decided controul over our 
Commerce, if not an entire monopoly. Our native Merchants would not be able to stand 
against their factors, and all the profits of our trade would center in Philadelphia." Library 
of Congress, Washington Papers. Cf. these Letters, VII. 262, 277, 342. 

6 Jay applied for instructions on May 9. The Journals do not record the con- 
sideration of the subject on May 10, but on the following day various motions were de- 
bated and voted upon. The undated motion of William Pierce, noted in the Journals under 
May 11 (in different terms from his recorded motion of that day) may have been made on 
May 10. The committee on Jay's letter reported July 4. 

On the same day that Jay applied for instructions on the Spanish negotiations he asked 
for leave of absence, which was granted. In the letter to Adams referred to in note 4, above, 
he said, " My health still continues much deranged, and I purpose in a few days to make an 
excursion into the country for about a fortnight ". 



May, 1787 597 

after some warm and animated speeches by the Minority, Mr. K 6 

observed, that if the Majority were determined, nolens et volens, to carry 
the Question, he should request time to prepare a motion to lay before the 
house, and if he found them not liberal enough to grant the indulgence 
he should demand it in right of his State, he was frank enough to declare, 
that it was his opinion that the house had not power by the confederation 
to adjourn for any period beyond a certain time without appointing a com- 
mittee of the States, and as 9 States were necessary to empower the com- 
mittee, he should prepare his business for the house to decide unon. This 
produced much altercation, during this the State of New Jersey was 

unrepresented and Mr. S n was not to be found, then the Majority 

had their fears, and Mr. Pet — t, in his place, observed that if he was 
supported by his colleague, he should require the matter to be postponed 
until tomorrow in right of his State, the impropriety of this step aroused 
the minority, and some of the warmest expressions fell from some of the 
Gentlemen that I have ever heard, and in the midst of the confusion — 
adjourn, adjourn was cried, and carried, and left the business as it was 
taken up. 

I[t] appears that the Majority were confident of success and Mr. 

Sch n had requested the ferry boat to wait for him to a certain time. 

this having elapsed, he made the best of his way fearing a disappoint- 
ment, and left his friends to lament his absence, and the loss of their 
cause. 7 

How many States will be present tomorrow is uncertain. 8 Mr. Few 
went on to Philadelphia yesterday, and it was thought that some other 
Gentlemen would leave town, how the fact is I am not able to say 

6 Rufus King. " S n " and " Pet — t ", farther on, are Schureman and Pettit, 

respectively. 

7 If Alden's narrative is entirely correct, the proceedings of May 10 and 11 are 
somewhat confused in the Journals. The story of this bizarre occurrence, far from being 
confined to the bosoms of members of Congress and their deputy secretary, must have 
breezed long and lustily outside the hall of Congress. For more than a year later (June 25, 
1788) the new French minister, the Comte de Moustier, who had not arrived until Janu- 
ary, 1788, related it to the Comte de Montmorin as a horrid example of the difficulties 
confronting the minister of his Most Christian Majesty in negotiating with the United 
States in Congress Assembled. " Telle est l'organisation vicieuse du Congres ", Moustier 
wrote, " independamment de son manque d'autorite, qu'un seule membre peut par son 
absence ou en se retirant au moment de donner sa voix faire manquer une affaire meme de 
la plus grande connoissance. On en a eu un exemple frappant l'annee derniere. Le 
Congres deliberoit s'il quitteroit Newyork, neuf Etats etoient representes, celui de jersey 
ne l'etoit que par deux membres sur lesquels on comptoit. Au moment de prononcer un 
des Membres se leve, prend sa canne et son chapeau ; on a beau vouloir le retenir, il part, 
va droit au Ferry et repasse la riviere pour retourner ches lui. C'est cependant up corps 
ainsi organise, a qui Ton a a faire toutes les demandes et tous les traites." Am. Hist. Rev., 
VIII. 732. 

8 Alden was writing on Sunday. After Friday, May 11, there was no session of 
Congress until July 4. 



598 Continental Congress 

657. Henry Lee, jr., to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

sir, 

The delegation have not had the honor of a letter from your Excellency 
for three weeks, on our part the correspondence has been regularly 
preserved. 

In conformity to the information contained in my last we brought 
before congress a report of a committee to whom was referred the resolu- 
tions of the Legislature of Virga. relative to the meeting of commercial 
deputys from that state and Maryland. 

The enclosed extract from the Journals will shew the sense of Congress 
on this business. 2 

It was with reluctance that the desire of our country was denied, but it 
was considered as indispensably necessary on a national view of tin 
subject. 

The opposition contended that all partial regulations of commerce were 
impolitic as they tended to procrastinate and impede the adoption of a 
general system, and might lead to seperate interests which might beget 
seperate leagues and ultimately produce divisions of the Union, which 
event is deprecated by all who feel for the dignity and happiness of these 
states. 

At present we have not more than six states, nor is there a probability 
of an encrease during the sitting of the foederal convention. 3 

New York May 15th, 1787. 

658. The President of Congress (Arthur St. Clair) to tbi 
Secretary of Congress. 1 

New York May 18th, 17S7. 
Sir, 

Having some pressing Business, in a distant part of Pennsylvania, that 
cannot well be done without my being personally present, I avail myself 
of the Situation of Congress at this time to attend to it. It will probably 
be five or six Weeks before I can return, but I am the easier on that 
account as there seems little probability that Congress will be fuller within 

[657] x Va. State Lib.. Executive Papers. 

3 The Journals, May 8. See nos. 600, 640, 654, ante. 

8 See no. 656, note 8, ante. Arthur Lee. who was a member of the board of 
treasury, wrote to Governor Randolph May 20 : " The situation of Virginia, with regard 
to her portion of the Domestic debt, of the Union, gives me much (meanness. While some 
States have collected upon very easy terms the whole of their quota, and other 
secretly effecting the same object: Virginia. I apprehend, will delay her exertions 'till 
the business cannot be accomplishd but with infinite difficulty and at double or treble 
expence." He offers several reasons why Virginia should " speedily and secretly " proceed 
to purchase public securities, one of the reasons being. "If ... . the proceedings of the 
present Convention shoud impress the public with an expectation of a firmer, federal gov- 
ernment and that Congress will be furnishd with the means of more effectually paying 
the interest of the debt, in all human probability the price of public securities [will] rise 
rapidly and greatly" (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. State Paters, IV. 288). 
See the governor's letter to the lieutenant-governor, Beverley Randolph, May 24 (ibid.. 
p. 280). 

[658] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 59, vol. III., f. 123. 



May, 1787 599 

either of these Periods — should however a sufficient number of States for 
the dispatch of Business present themselves earlier, be so obliging as to 
make them accquainted with the necessity there was for my Absence, and 
my request that they will please to appoint a Chair-Man until I can get back, 
an Event that I will hasten as much as possible. The Adjournment from 
Day to Day until seven States appear you, of course, will attend to, and I 
find by the Journals that the presence of the President, merely for the 
purpose of adjourning has not been thought necessary but has often been 
done by the Secretary. 2 

659. Robert Burton to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New- York, 22d May, 1787. 
Sir, 

On Tuesday the 1 5th. Instant I arrived here Since which time there has 
not been a sufficient number of States Represented to do business in Con- 
gress at this time very few Members are here and it being very certain 
that there will not [be] a meeting again until the Convention at Philadel- 
phia rises. I shall return immediately home and as soon as I am Noti- 
fied that it is likely that Congress will sett I shall come on. we have no 
news here more than the papers contain, Which I enclose you. 2 

660. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Newyork May 22d, 1787. 

I have before informed you that I was confined to the House with the 
blind piles and so I am yet but they are much mended 

I am this day informed that Williamson, Spaight and Martin are at 
Philadelphia or I should have set out for that place on tomorrow or next 
day intolerable as traveling certainly would have proved to my Breech, 
at present it is uncertain when I shall go but certainly not till I am quite 
well unless my Colleagu[e]s should inform me of a greater Necessity for 
my coming than I at present conceive. 2 .... Spaight has informed me 
that you have sent me by him 200 dollars for which I am much obliged to 
you. I fear I shall want another 100 

[P. S. ] Colonel Burton has been here about a Week and will (I be- 
lieve) set out for home in two days with an Intent to return here in 6 or 

2 A quorum of seven states was first obtained on July 4, when, the President being 
absent, William Grayson was elected chairman. St. Clair attended July 17. 

[659] x N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy) ; AT. C. State Recs., XX. 705. 
2 Cf. no. 660, post. Both Burton and Blount, it turned out, were mistaken, for 
Congress was again able to gather a quorum on July 4. From Philadelphia Burton wrote 
to John Gray Blount, May 31 : " Col. Wm. Blount has been a little unwell with the piles 
but is getting better. The Convention sitting here are so very private that there is no 
telling what business they are on. there is no Congress at this time, nor will not be 
untill the Convention rises." N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 
[660] * N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 
2 See no. 662, post. 



600 Continental Congress 

8 Weekes which will be as soon as there will probably be [a] Congress — 
at present there are only four States. 3 There will not be a Congress again 
before the Convention rises. 



66 1. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

24th May 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I am much obliged by your kind favor and am sorry I have little to com- 
municate from this quarter worth your acceptance ; We have been a caput 
mortuutn for some time past except the little flurry that was kicked up 
about Philada. 2 Carrington I presume has giv'n you full information on 
that point ; during the contest, the Enemy wanted to raise a mutiny in our 
camp by proposing to go to George town at a certain time : They were 
answered, they had served us so once before. Since the matter has blown 
over, some particular gentlemen have offered to join us in getting George- 
town fixed as the capital of the foederal Empire: they say they will vote 
money for the buildings, and in every respect make the compact as irre- 
vocable as the nature of the case will admit of provided we will agree to 
stay here a reasonable time untill every thing is made proper for their 
reception. I am not certain when all the Eastern States come forward, but 
some good may come out of this, provided we act with delicacy and 
caution : Most of the foreigners who come among us, say the sessions of 
Congress should be fixed by national compact; I think they are right in 
their reasoning with respect to all such governments as ours The argu- 
ments are too obvious to be mentioned to you. We have a right to it at 
Georgetown : and ought in justice to get it. 

Entre nous, I believe the Eastern people have taken ground they will not 
depart from respecting the Convention — One legislature composed of a 
lou*er-\io\isc annually elected and an Executive and Senate for a good 
number of years. I shall see Gerry and Johnson, as they pass and may 
perhaps give you a hint. 8 

Since your departure Maryl'd has openly declared agt. the Mississippi. 
It is therefore of the utmost importance that So. Carolina should think 
right on the subject. Parker who comes in in Nov. next is firm, and 
Mr. Kean from his bad State of health will not in all probability 
attend.* .... 

8 See no. 650, ante. 
[661] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

•That is, the proposed removal of Congress to Philadelphia. See nos. 636, 637, 
643, 656, ante. 

8 Grayson wrote to Monroe May 29 (see no. 662, note 4, post) : " The delegates 
from the Eastw'd are for a very strong government, and wish to prostrate all the 
legislatures, and form a general system out of the whole; but I don't learn that the people 
are with them ", etc. 

4 Cf. nos. 647, 651, ante, 691, 697, post. 



May, 1787 601 

662. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

-. New York May 28th 1787. 

Soon after the Arrival of Mr. Spaight at Philadelphia he informed me 
by Letter that he had brought with him a Commission for me to attend 
the Convention in the place and stead of your Excellency. 2 

I had been for some Time before and at this Time am too indisposed 
to undertake a journey so far as Philadelphia tho' at present I am much 
on the Recovery 8 and shall leave this in a few days to attend the duties 
of that appointment. On the 24th Instant only six States had appeared 
among which North Carolina is included and had four Members present. 
On the 25 there were seven and since that Period the Delegates from 
Massachusetts and Connecticut have passed through this City. North Caro- 
lina being so strongly represented and no Convention being formed untill 
this day (if today) my Absence as yet has been certainly of no Moment 
indeed I have not the Vanity to suppose my presence and Assistance will 
be of much Avail in so arduous a Business as the Amending the 
Confederation. 

For some days past not more than five States have appeared on the Floor 
of Congress Chambers and it is generally believed that there will not 
appear a sufficient Number to form a Congress untill the Convention rises. 4 
Colonel Burton arrived here on or about the 14th Instant and left us about 
the 25th to return to his own House. He wrote you by post the day he sat 
out. 5 

663. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Newyork May 30th 1787. 
I have before informed that an Indisposition had detained me here, I 
am I believe over the pain of it unless I bring it on by too much Exercise 
say by traveling. On the 25th seven States assembled in Convention and 
Chose a President and Secretary, and by this Time I think there are eleven 
States represented only New-Hampshire and Rhode Island being unrepre- 
sented. I cannot suppose any thing definitive will be done in Convention 
in less than a Month and most people suppose not in less than two or 

[662] 1 George C. Thomas Coll., Philadelphia ("By Captain Stephen Tinker") ; N. C. 
State Recs., XX. 706 ; Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, app. A, p. 29. 

2 See no. 642, ante. Cf. nos. 678, 683, post. 

3 Blount first wrote " on the Mend ". See nos. 641, 642, 660, ante, 663, 678, 683, post. 

4 Grayson wrote to Monroe May 29: "The draught made from Congress of 
members for the Convention has made them very thin and no business of course is going 
on here : I do not believe that this will be the case untill that body shall be dissolved, 
which I hardly think will be the case these three months. What will be the result of their 
meeting I cannot with any certainty determine, but I hardly think much good can come 
of it : the people of America don't appear to me to be ripe for any great innovations." He 
then discusses the attitudes of states and sections relative to changes in the government. 
Library of Congress, Monroe Papers ; Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, III. 
30 (with omissions) ; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 424 (extract) ; Doc. 
Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 170 (extract). 

B See nos. 681, 682, 694, post. Cf. nos. 659, 660, ante. 
[663] x N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 



602 Continental Congress 

three Months and I shall certainly be in Philadelphia in less than a Week. 2 
For some Weeks past there have not been more than five States on the 
Floor of Congress and seven are not expected before the Convention rises. 8 
Hawkins will leave this in about a Fortnight for No Carolina. A Vessel 
arrived today from London and there have lately been several others but 
no Letters from T. Blount. 

664. Charles Pinckney to thk Secretary of Congress. 1 
Dear Sir, PHILADELPHIA May 30 1787. 

The territorial controversy between the states of Georgia and South 
Carolina being amicably compromised, I am to request you will be so oblig- 
ing as to inform the gentlemen who are nominated as judges that it will be 
unnecessary for them to attend at the time appointed. I am with respect 
etc. 2 

665. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 
Dear Sir New York May 3 ith, 1 787.' 

. . . . 3 there are only five States represented in Congress. I hear that 
Clark is chosen a member of the Convention, if so I think we cannot 
expect N. Jersey, at present, to attend Congress very steadily. T have 
heard nothing of Dr. Holten. I have therefore suggested to tin- I lovernor 
that I shall conceive it proper for me, in a few days to return to Massa. 
etc. unless I hear of Dr. Holtcn's recovering his Health ; and that he will 
probably soon attend Congress. 4 I need not mention to you how disagree- 
able this apathetic mode of doing business in Congress is. it seems to me 
to make the government appear more feeble than it even is. and to have a 
pernicious effect on the public mind and feelings. 

If I return to Massa. I will inform you and make any arrangement 
may think proper about keeping up the Delegation. If I go I shall not 
probably be in Boston till after the Delegates may be appointed. 

[P. SJ 

2 See nos. 660, 662, ante, 678, 683, post. 

8 The entry in William Samuel Johnson's diary for May 30 is, " Very Rainy 
.... at Cong's Cham'r . . . ." Johnson was on his way to the Federal Convention, in 
which he took his seat June 2. See Farrand, Records of the Federal Convent ion. III. 552. 
[664] 1 Library of Congress. Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 353 (copy). 

2 "(Signed) Charles Pinckney One of the Agents for South Carolina". See the 
Journals, May 17, June 1, 1785, Sept. 4, n, 13, 1786, and nos. 146, 502, ante. Thomson 
wrote to the several judges accordingly on June 1. See no. 666, post. 
[66s] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original) ; Life of Kin<j, I. 230, 

2 The secretary of Congress wrote to Washington May 31 : "I have the honor 
to enclose to Your Excellency the news papers of this day, published in the City of New 
York, and I am directed by the Members of Congress present to transmit them daily." 
Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 135. 

8 Dane acknowledges a letter of May 27 from King, who was attending the con- 
vention at Philadelphia. On the same day King wrote to General Knox, giving some 
account of the opening of the convention — the election of Washington as president and 
of lackson as secretary (Mass. Hist. Soc., Knox Papers, XX. 85). King again wrote 
to Knox June 3— eleven states represented (ibid., XX. 02). To the latter Knox replied 
June 8 (Life of K inn. I. 221). 

* Cf. no. 668, post. 



June, 1787 603 

666. The Secretary of Congress to Alexander Contee Hanson. 1 

Philadelphia June 1, 1787. 
Sir, 

Having had leave of absence from Congress to attend to some private 
affairs, I did not until last evening receive the letter you did me the honor 
to write on the 20 of May. Immediately on the receipt of it I called on 
the delegates from Georgia and South Carolina, who are in this city 
attending the convention, for information touching the state of the dis- 
pute between those states. This morning I received the letter a copy of 
which is enclosed, by which you will perceive that the controversy is ami- 
cably compromised and consequently that the attendance of the judges is 
become unnecessary. 2 I hope this will reach you in time to prevent your 
setting out on the journey. 

667. James White to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Fayetteville June 1st, 1787. 
Sir, 

As I am under a necessity of troubling you for your warrant for that 
part of my salary which remains due to me for going, and returning from 
the delegation; and for your warrant also to enable me to proceed next 
november as the honorable the legislature was pleased to appoint : I take 
the liberty to trouble you, at same time with some dispatches which are 
the result of my tour to the creek nation. They may serve to throw some 
light on indian affairs, in that quarter, if they should be an object of your 
attention : for this reason I have left them unsealed. Which defect I flatter 
myself you will be good enough to supply, and transmit the papers by the 
very earliest opportunity to congress. 

As superintendant of indian affairs, I should have informed your ex- 
cellency that I was instructed by congress to promise their aid and protec- 
tion to the southern states, whenever their indian affairs should require it ; 
but that the tranquility which the state enjoyed made such information 
not immediately necessary. 2 

668. Nathan Dane to Nathaniel Gorham. 1 

New York, June 6th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I had the pleasure yesterday, of receiving yours the 3d inst. 2 I am very 
glad the Convention came fully into the determination of dividing the 

[666] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 357. 

2 See no. 664, ante. Thomson likewise notified the other judges appointed in the 
case in a letter of the same date. Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 355. 
The convention between the states of South Carolina and Georgia is in the Journals, 
Aug. 9. Cf. no. 773, post. 

[667] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; N. C. State Recs., XX. 713. 

2 Caswell's reply, June 4, is ibid., XX. 715. 
[668] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Gorham's letter is in the Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

45 



604 Continental Congress 

powers of Government, and of lodging them in distinct and independant 
hands as Nature seems always to have intended etc. but in what hands 
to lodge the Legislative and executive powers so as to collect in the federal 
Government the greatest strength and stability, and general Confidence, 
is a work, I think, the Convention will find of vast consideration. 

I inclose you, Sir, two Boston papers by which you will see how the 
General Court appeared for the first, in the house 216 members, 156 of 
them marked with the sign of new comers — you perhaps may know many 
of the characters — I find it difficult to recollect hardly any proportion of 
them. There will in a few days probably be 250 or 260 members in the 
House, and I believe no man can tell what direction they may take. 

We have in Congress only four States and two halves. Dr. Holten Jur. 
is in the Legislature, but I hear nothing from him respecting his coming 
on to N. York. 8 I have nothing particular to communicate — nothing of 
any consequence from the Eastward. 

With Great esteem and respect 

I am Your friend and Hum. Servant 

N. Dane 

669. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Walker. 1 

Office of Secy of Congress, June 7th, 1787. 
Sir, 

To yours by Mr. Wilson, I must answer as an official servant, and in- 
form you that you have had some, but not all the truth upon the subject of 
enquiry. 

Your report was committed and the report of that committee is now 
before Congress — nothing has ever been determined upon it. You are not 
mistaken as to the principal fact, nor are Members of Congress obliged to 
know every thing that is left undone, tho the anxiety of those concerned 
may induce them to think that a Man in Congress, or a Member of a 
Legislature ought to know as well as feel all their wants and destresses, 
and Col Carrington has discovered the goodness of his heart by even wish- 
ing that all the servants of the public may have their due — but you are not 
mistaken. 2 

Attested by yours sincerely, 

670. The Secretary of Congress to the Board of Treasury. 1 

Office of Secy of Congress, June 7th, 1787. 
Gentlemen, 

I am honored with your letter of the 2d Inst, requesting a copy of an 
account of supplies furnished by the United States to John Holker Esqr. 

■ Cf. no. 665, ante, and no. 680, post. 
[669] » Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 143 (draft). 

* Benjamin Walker was commissioner for settling accounts of the hospital, marine, 
and clothier's departments. See the Journals, May 8, 1786, May 7, 1787, May 8, 1788. No 
clue to this enigma of this letter has been discovered. 
[670] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49. f. 141 (draft). 



June, 1/8/ 605 

transmitted to Congress in a report of the board of treasury, on the sub- 
ject of Mr. Holkers account June 29th 1781. I have examined the books 
of entry and reference, and the files in this Office, and cannot find any 
mention of, or report from the board of Treasury on that subject of a 
later date than April 5th, 1780. 

The business was before Congress in July 1781. the accounts of Mr. 
Holker were referred to a Committee consisting of Mr. Smith Mr. Clymer 
and Mr. Osgood, and that Committee was discharged Octr. 18th, 
following. 2 

If the report and the papers enclosed of the date mentioned in your 
letter, have ever been reed, in this Office, they are disposed of in a manner 
not accounted for by any entries or files in this Office. 3 

671. Henry Lee, jr., to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 
(Beverley Randolph). 1 

New York June 8th 1787. 2 
sir, 

I have to ask pardon for my omission in writing last week, and now 
beg leave to reply to your letters of the 19th and 28th of May. 

The first relates to the detention of the indents for 86 and 87. We feel 
very much distressed to know that our country is groaning under injurys, 
which we have no opportunity to attempt to releive her from. The remedy 
being solely in Congress and that body being for the present out of ses- 
sion. The board of Treasury are merely executive, and dare not exercise 
the power of altering resolutions committed to their conduct. 8 

The scheme of indents originated for the purpose of enabling the public 
to discharge the interest of the domestic debt, and is marked by three con- 
ditions which seem clearly to explain the natural operation and effect of 
this branch of the revenue system — viz — That indents shall be issued only 
to such state or states as may have passed the requisition, providing for 

2 See the Journals, July 2, Aug. 23, Oct. 18, 178 1. 

3 The letter of the board of treasury June 2, addressed to Deputy Secretary Alden, 
is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 59, vol. III., f. 131. To a further letter from the board June 
16 {ibid., f. 127) Thomson replied, June 18: "I am honored with your letter of the 16th 
and have the honor to enclose a copy of the report of the committee of commerce on the 
letter of July 15th 1778 from Monsieur de Francey, mentioned in the Journals of Congress 
Augt. 1st 1778. The act in consequence contains all the powers given to the Commissioners 
in France relative to the accounts of Mr. Ross, that I can find in the public or secret 
Journals of that year" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 145). A minor incident in this 
affair is a letter, June 15, 1787 {ibid., f. 367), from William Duer, secretary to the board 
of treasury, to Roger Alden, deputy secretary of Congress, relative to the absence from 
the Journals of an act of Jan. 17, 1781, with regard to a balance to be placed to the 
credit of John Ross. The order is in the Library of Congress edition of the Journals. 

[671] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 294. 

2 Arthur Lee wrote to St. George Tucker June 8 : " There are but three states 
represented in Congress, nor are they likely to meet .... these two months " ( Va. Hist. 
Soc., Lee Trans., II.). 

3 A letter from the governor of Virginia to the President of Congress, Apr. 16, 
with an act of the Virginia legislature respecting indents, was laid before Congress May 2 
and referred to the board of treasury to report. The board's report, July 11, was referred 
to a committee, but on July 16 the committee was discharged, and an order passed that 
a copy of the report be furnished to the Virginia delegates. See nos. 600, 622, ante, 701, 
post. 



600 Continental Congress 

its payment, adequate funds — that the payment of indents shall be in pro- 
portion to the payment of specie, and that they shall be receivable only in 
discharge of the requisition of the year, to which they were allotted. 

From the first condition it follows that indents cannot be issued to any 
state whose compliance with the requisition is not substantial and effec- 
tive. If then the act of the Legislature of Virginia passed in the last ses- 
sion, is only a compliance in name, the board of treasury are bound to 
withhold the indents for the present year. If on the contrary the compli- 
ance is effective, the board has criminally neglected their duty, and deeply 
injured the state. 

The act of the assembly has been laid before Congress, and will be 
the subject of their deliberation as soon as they re-assemble. Certain it 
is that our country has been grossly injured, and that the injury is at- 
tributable either to the Legislature, or to the board of treasury 

The detention of the indents for the year 86 is authorized by the last of 
the three recited conditions, for the receipt of indents issued on the requi- 
sition of the 27th. Septr. 85 is only admissible in payment of the taxes 
of that year and in the specified ballances stated in the resolve of the 
1 2th. Octr. of the same year, it being a fundamental principle of the 
revenue system that distinct appropriations shall be established for the 
redemption of indents issued on distinct requisitions. 

The let'r of the 28th respects the pay of the third commissioner ap- 
pointed in conformity to the resolve of Congress for adjusting the claims 
of Virginia against the union, for moneys expended and services per- 
formed in the conquest and protection of the western territory. We com- 
municated the purport of this let'r to the board of treasury, who in com- 
pliance with our wishes have been pleased to issue their order for two 
hundred dollars, in favor of the commissioner, determining to unite with 
the state, in advances of money to this officer, untill the decision of Con- 
gress shall be had on the subject. 

This we trust will prevent any interruption in the concluding a business, 
which has already too long been neglect id. 

672. Nathan Dane to Stephen Higginson. 1 

New York June the 9, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

By the last post I received your's of tin 3d fast with the two letters 
inclosed which I forwarded to your son. 2 .... 

[67a] 1 Beverly Historical Society. 

'Higginson had written to Dane May 6 (Am. Hist. Assoc., Annual Report, 1896, 
!• 754). requesting him to obtain the sense of Congress and also of Otto, the French 
charge d'affaires, " whether by the Treaty with France Americans are to be subjected to 
the Droit d'Aubaine in the French Islands, and whether a native of America by having 
resided abroad for several years loses his right of ( 'iti/mship and of course his right to 
exemption under that Treaty, from the operation of that Law of France". The case was 
that of a Mr. Wethered, who was born in Boston, had lived several years in Antigua, and 
had recently died at Aux Cayes (otherwise Caves, or I . .1 m p orl on the south- 

ern coast of Haiti. Higginson's partner, Jonathan Jackson, had also written to Rufus King 
concerning the matter. Dane's reply (May \$) to HigRinson's letter of May 6 has not 



June, 1787 607 

Mr. King is in Philadel'a the Convention seems to be setting in solemn 
silence — we hear not a word from them. We do not even conjecture what 
they will do. we all hope they will do something good, but I am confident 
you would feel every day extremely diverted to hear the various opinions 
circulating about what is called good Government, were you here or near 
the vortex of federal politics. 

673. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York June 9, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the honor to address you by Mr. Payne, in answer to yours 
of the 16th January. 2 The proposed scheme of a convention has taken 
more general effect, and promises more solid advantages than was at first 
hoped for . . . . 3 

The Commissions of these Gentlemen go to a thorough reform of our 
confederation — some of the States, at first, restricted their deputies to com- 
mercial objects, but have since liberated them, the latitude thus given, 
together with the generality of the commission from the States, have 
doubtless operated to bring Genl. Washington forward, contrary to his 
more early determination — his conduct in both instances indicate a deep 
impression upon his mind, of the necessity of some material change — 

.... Men are brought into action who had consigned themselves to 
an eve of rest, and the Convention, as a Beacon, is rousing the attention 
of the Empire. 

The prevailing impression as well in, as out of, Convention, is, that a 
fcederal Government adapted to the permanent circumstances of the Coun- 
try, without respect to the habits of the day, be formed, whose efficiency 
shall pervade the whole Empire: it may, and probably will, at first, be 
viewed with hesitation, but, derived and patron [i]sed as it will be, its in- 
fluence must extend into a general adoption as the present fabric gives way. 
that the people are disposed to be governed is evinced in their turning out 
to support the shadows under which they now live, and if a work of wis- 
dom is prepared for them, they will not reject it to commit themselves to 
the dubious issue of Anarchy 4 

been found, but Higginson wrote him in reply June 3 (ibid., p. 756). Higginson in turn 
replied to this letter June 16 (ibid.', p. 757). Touching subsequent problems respecting 
droit d'aubaine see Jefferson to Short Aug. 26, 1790 (Writings, V. 234). Letters to Jeffer- 
son relating to the subject (Jefferson Papers) are: William Short, Oct. 28, 1700 (proposed 
abolition of droit d'aubaine) ; Jan. 21, 1791 ; Jeremiah Wadsworth, May 11, 1791 ; Sylvanus 
Bourne, Aug. 14, 1791. 

[673] l Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 189; 
Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, III. 37; Bancroft, Formation of the Con- 
stitution, II. 426. 

2 Apr. 24, no. 649, ante. Jefferson's letter to Carrington Jan. 16 is in Writings, 
IV. 357. He replied to this letter Aug. 4 (ibid., p. 423). 

8 A brief passage relative to the organization of the Convention is here omitted. 

4 The remainder of the letter is mainly speculation upon what the Convention may 
do. Cf. Carrington to Madison June 13, Library of Congress, Madison Papers, part 
printed in Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 200, and Bancroft, Formation of the Con- 
stitution, II. 428. 



608 Continental Congress 

674. Benjamin Hawkins to Thomas Jefferson. 1 
Dear Siff New York the 9th June 1 787. 



■z 



Our friend Colonel Carrington promises me to give you a long 
narrative of our Politics and therefore it would be superfluous if not pre- 
sumptuous in me to do it, 8 1 will only add that every citizen of the United 
States is looking up with eager anxious hopes to the convention for an 
efficient Government : that the proceedings of the Convention are under 
such an injunction of Secrecy as that confidential communications are 
inconsistant with the rules established as necessary to preserve the fullest 
freedom of discussion and to prevent misconceptions and misconstructions 
without doors. 

[P.S.] 

675. William Blount to Joseph Clay. 1 
Dear sir> New york June nth 1787. 

I have had the Pleasure to receive your's of the 28th april addressed to 
Doct'r Nicholas Romayne. Hereto annexed is the account of Sales of 
the Hogshead of Skins therein mentioned and of three others received 
some short Time before which I presume as you deal in that article will 
not be unacceptable. 2 At present there are not States enough represented 
to form a Congress and I believe will not be untill the Convention rises. 
The Members of the Convention observe such inviolable Secrecy that it 
is altogether unknown out doors what they are doing. I shall leave this 
in a few days to take my Seat among them. Please present my Compli- 
ments to Mrs. Clay and believe me with much esteem, 

676. Nathan Dane to Caleb Davis. 1 

<-.. New York June 12th 1787. 

I had the honor of receiving the Secretary's letter of the 25th ult. accom- 
panied with an extract from the Hon'ble Mr. Sedgwick's letter of the 17 
ult'o both relative to the late conduct of the rebels who have fled from 
Massachusetts into this State; and the former requesting the Delegates to 
communicate to his Excellency, Governor Clinton, the extract of Mr. 

[674] l Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 189 
(extract) ; N. C. Hist. Rev.. XII. 257. 

2 The omitted passages pertain chiefly to the transmission of plants to Jefferson 
(see his letter to Jefferson Mar. 8, N. C. Hist. Rev., XII. 254), in part to information 
respecting the Southern Indians (see his letter of June 14, 1786, ibid., p. 252). 
8 See Carrington's letter to Jefferson June 9 (no. 673, ante). 
[675] » Hist. Soc. of Pa.. Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 The account of sales referred to accompanies Blount's letter (copy in possession 
of Carnegie Institution). The transaction was in settlement of a debt due from Bryan 
Ward of Georgia to the state of North Carolina. Letters relating to the transaction are 
in N. C. State Recs., XX. 697, 701, 702, 719, 727. See also ibid., XVIII. 512, 525, 533-556. 
Concerning Nicholas Romayne see no. 412, ante. 

[676] Copied from the original, then in the possession of C F. Libbie and Company 
of Boston. 



June, 1/8/ 609 

Sedgwick's letter. As my Colleagues were at Philadelphia, I immediately 
made that communication, and had some conversation with Governor Clin- 
ton on the subject of it. 2 .... 

[P. S.] Conceiving, that Governor Clinton has made lately official Com- 
munications to our Governor on this subject, and given him all the infor- 
mation useful or important on it in answer to our Govr's letter etc. — in my 
letter to Gov. Hancock I have only mentioned that I made the communica- 
tions requested, etc. but lest the case may be otherwise I have thought it 
best to state to you and two or three friends in private letters these facts, 
and any measures proper may be taken. 

677. William Grayson to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 

(Beverley Randolph). 1 

N. York, June 12th, 1787. 
Sir, 

Your letter of the 2nd of Instant inclosing the communications from 
Colo. Shelby, has been recieved, and shall be laid before Congress as soon 
as a sufficient number of States shall have assembled, so as to enable them 
to proceed to public business ; 2 When this will be the case is altogether 
uncertain; many of the members of Congress are now attending at the 
Convention, some of the States have not sent delegates either to the one or 
the other It is much to be lamented that the desire of dismember- 
ing States prevails in so great a degree among the citizens of the Union ; 
if a doctrine of this sort is allowed, it will go directly to the destruction of 
all government for if the right exists in the first instance it may be car- 
ried so far as to reduce a State to the size of a county or a parish. It was 
a great misfortune that the principle was not attacked in the instance of 
Vermont : they might have been crushed in the beginning ; but they have 
been permitted in quietness to grow powerful and to furnish a fatal ex- 
ample to the Union 

There can be no doubt but the United States are bound to guaranty the 
limits of every State in the Confederation; their not interfering in the 
case alluded to, has subjected them to great inconveniences already : a very 
considerable body of people residents of Vermont pay no taxes towards 
the support of the fcederal government, neither are they in fact a part of 
the Union; they also furnish a comfortable asylum to all those who are 
disposed to fly from taxation in the others. 

With respect to the State of N. Carolina it must be acknowledged they 
have acted with the greatest imprudence After having giv'n up the coun- 

2 See no. 593, note 3, ante. Dane relates the substance of his conference with 
Governor Clinton and the attorney general of New York and discusses the situation at 
some length. See Sedgwick to King June 18, in Life of King, I. 223, and Dane to King 
June 19, no. 680, post. 

[677] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 296. 

2 It was not until July 6 that the lieutenant governor's letter of June 2, which re- 
lated to troubles on the frontier of Virginia, was laid before Congress. See nos. 686, 687, 
692, 701, post. 



610 Continental Congress 

try to the United States, and the government to the people they ought not 
afterwards (on the reassumption) to have expected a voluntary obedience : ' 
I shall transmit a copy of your letter with the communications to our dele- 
gates in the Convention, although I believe they are already sufficiently 
impressed with the propriety of defining in the most accurate manner the 
limits of the States, as well as of providing an adequate remedy for the 
suppression of evils of this sort. 

By letters from a Mr. Syms in Kentucki, late a member of Congress for 
the State of N. Jersey, we are informed that the people at the Kaskaskies 
and Post Vinc't are in the most unsettled situation: they complain (and 
in my opinion with great justice) that Congress notwithstanding their 
frequent applications, has [Qever since the cession of Virginia) suffered 
them to remain in a state of nature, with't law government or protection ; 
and talk very strongly of becoming Spanish subjects : 4 

678. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

New york June 15th 1787. 

Major Pierce 2 returned here last Night from the Convention of which 
he is a Member and says it is probable and that it is the general Opinion 
of the Members of that Body that it will not rise before the Middle of 
October. 

I have not learned from him what in particular is done but he says in 
general Terms very little is done and nothing definitive indeed I suppose 
he would not like to descend to particulars even to me who am a Member 
as I have not taken my seat for the Members are under an Injunction not 
[to] disclose ' by writing or otherwise any part of their Proceedings to 
any Persons but siting Members. Pierce, Hawkins and myself leave this 
on Monday the 18th for Philadelphia.* For this Week past I have been so 
well of my Complaint as to have but little pain but the fear of a Return 
from the Exercise of Traveling has kept me here and I have been the 
more tardy in leaving this as I have been daily advised of the State of 
things in Convention and saw there was no great Necessity for my 
Presence. 

679. Nathaniel Gorham to Theophilus Parsons. 1 

Philadelphia, June 18. 1; 
My dear Sir, 

It was with singular pleasure I saw your name in the list of Representa- 
tives. I hope all the measures of your body will be dictated by the prin- 
ciples of honor and justice. Among the various subjects which will come 
before you, the requisition of Congress of the last year will undoubtedly 

* See nos. 10, 127, 142, 146, 168, 490, ante. 

4 The letter of John Qeves Symmes, May 3, was laid before Congress July 6. See 
no. 646, note 4, ante. 

[678] l N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 
"William Pierce of Georgia. 

* Blount first wrote " injunction of secrecy ". 

* See nos. 683, 604, post. 

[67g] x Memoir of Theophilus Parsons, p. 461. 



June, 1/8/ 611 

be one. I hope you will excuse me for just suggesting to you, that I think 
it will be burdening the people to no essential purpose to comply with that 
requisition any further than applies to the cash part of it ; not that I have 
any doubt of the justice and duty of paying the domestic debt ; but it is 
in vain for Massachusetts alone to expect to support the public credit ; for 
six or seven States have absolutely refused to comply with the one of the 
year before the last, and, of those who have complied in appearance, very 
few will make any effectual payments ; and I presume there will not be any 
that will comply with the one that is now to be considered by you, except- 
ing the cash part of it, and with that numbers will comply. In short, the 
present Federal Government seems near its exit ; and whether we shall in 
the Convention be able to agree upon mending it, or forming and recom- 
mending a new one is not certain 2 



680. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 

New York June 19th 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I fully agree to the propriety of the Convention order restraining its 
members from communicating its doings, tho' I feel a strong desire and 
curiosity to know how it proceeds. I think the public never ought to see 
anything but the final report of the Convention — the digested result only, 
of their deliberations and enquiries. 

Whether the plans of the Southern, Eastern or Middle States succeed, 
never, in my opinion, ought to be known. A few reflections on the sub- 
ject lead me to doubt whether one of your members, Mr. P., 2 who two or 
three days since came to this city, fully understood the true meaning, full 

and just extent of the order not to communicate etc 3 I have not 

heard a word from Dr. Holten himself. I received letters from several of 
the members of the Legislature dated about the first of this month, all 
of which informed me, that he proposed in two or three days from that 
time, to set out for New York, that he was then well and in the legislature. 4 

I have written to him on the subject of his attending, etc. and may 
expect an answer by the next post, was he present I suppose we should 
have a Congress, but members now present talk of going away immed'ly 
and I think there is no great probability of Congress doing any business 
worth a naming till August or Sepr. 6 .... 

2 There follow some remarks respecting features of the new government upon 
which " all agree ". " I do not know ", he adds, " that I am at liberty to write anything 
on this subject. ... I beg you not to mention having heard from me on the subject, ex- 
cept to your brother." 

[680] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (original) ; Life of King, I. 225; Farrand, Rec- 
ords of the Federal Convention, III. 48 (extract). 

2 William Pierce of Georgia. See no. 678, ante. 

8 The omission pertains to problems consequent upon the insurrection in Massa- 
chusetts. Cf. no. 676, ante. 

4 See nos. 665, 668, ante, 682, 684, post. 

5 Cf. nos. 681, 682, 684, 685, 691, post. 



612 Continental Congress 

681. John Armstrong, jr., to William Irvine. 1 

New York 20th June 1 787. 
Dear Sir, 

Your letter of the 5th reached me yesterday. The reports on the busi- 
ness of moving Congress are founded. A second attempt was made but 
with the same want of success as the first. Another Peleg interposed his 
Veto and here we are and I believe must remain during the present Politi- 
cal year. This other traitor to himself and us was a Mr. Scurman of 
Jersey. 2 

I'm glad to find you at Liberty to return, to your several questions on 
that point I answer — 1st, that I am now the only Delegate from Pennsyl- 
vania, Meredith having gone home about a fortnight since. 2nd, We 
have now a prospect of very suddenly making a Congress. No adjourn- 
ment can or will take place. 'Tis held to be particularly necessary that we 
should remain together during the session of the Convention. An ad- 
journment at the present moment would look illy and bear a construction 
which ought to be stifled or excluded. Viz: an abandonment of the gov- 
ernment under its present shape. 8 and 3, Abstractedly from these con- 
siderations, there is business of much moment to be done. The requisitions, 
goverment of the Western Country etc. are hanging in the Air, and must 
drop entirely if not soon taken up and decided upon. 4 These facts will 
no doubt determine you to come forward. The sooner perhaps the better, 
as it is not probable that our Philadelphia Colleagues will at this time 
feel themselves much disposed to leave home. 

I enclose the papers of the day. They contain all the news of this City. 

682. William Grayson to William Irvine. 1 

N York June 20th, 1787. 
D'r Sir, 

I should have wrote to you long since, but we have done so little since 
your departure, that I could have scarcely found materials for a letter. 
The object of this is to request your attendance in Congress, since the 
Convention met we have not had even a house, last night Doer. Holten 
arrived, from Massachusets and there are now present delegations from 
N. Jersey, N. York, Massachusets, Virga. and So. Carolina. I have this 
moment wrote to Blount and Hawkins to return according to promise, so 
that there is every reason to conclude there will be immediately a Congress : 
and when once we get under way, I think we shall soon be joined by 
Maryland and Delawar and very probably by some of the Eastern states. 
As the making a Congress under the present aspect of things, is highly 

[681] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers (addressed to Irvine at Carlisle). 

2 When the first attempt at removal took place, Apr. 10, Irvine was present ; 
before the second, May 10, he had taken his departure. Concerning the apostasy of Peleg 
Arnold of Rhode Island see nos. 630, 636, 637, 642. ante ; concerning what Armstrong 
appears to regard as the treachery of Schureman of New Jersey, see no. 656, ante. 
» Cj. nos. 675. 680, ante, 684, 685. post. 
* See nos. 656, 661, ante, 682-685, post. 
r68a]» Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers, IV. 84. 



June, 1787 613 

important, and as there are several matters of capital consequence which 
ought to be done in the present year, I hope you will think this information 
worthy your attention. It is probable that the President may return, but 
I have strong reasons to wish you to be here. I have this day wrote Mr. 
Bingham stating to him the situation of things. 2 

683. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Philadelphia June 21st, 1787. 

Hawkins and myself arrived here on the 19th, he now purposes to leave 
this on Thursday on board a ship for Petersburg. 2 I am not at Liberty 
to say what is doing in Convention and if I was the Business is so much 
in Embryo that I could say nothing that would be in the least satisfactory. 
All the Members agree that the Convention will sit at least six weekes and 
it is generally supposed 8 or 10 from this Time, hence the Necessity for 
more Mony to be remitted to me. Since my arrival I am favoured with 
your's by Mr. Mackie[ ?]. 

684. Nathan Dane to Nathaniel Gorham. 1 

Dear sir, New York ' J une 22 ' l 7*7- 

.... Dr. Holten has arrived, and I wish the officers of Congress and 
members not engaged in the Convention would return to New York. 2 
I do not know how it may be in the Southern States, but, I assure you, 
the present State of Congress has a very disagreeable effect in the Eastern 
States. The people hear of a convention in Philadelphia, and that Congress 
is done sitting, etc. Many of them are told, it seems, that Congress will 
never meet again probably. Dr. H[olten] says he saw several sober men 
who had got an idea that the people were to be called on to take arms 
to carry into effect immediately the report of the Convention, etc. I see no 
help for men's being so absurd and distracted; but those things have a 
pernicious effect on the industry, peace, and habits of the people. Are not 
the printers imprudent to publish so many contradictory pieces about the 
proceedings of your body which must be mere conjecture? You know 
many people always believe all they see in the newspapers without the 
least examination. It appears to me that Congress, at this time especially, 
ought to be together and doing business as usual and if we mean to avoid 
convulsions those appearances which to the unthinking look so much like 
abandoning the established Government ought not to be suffered to take 
place. To be here idle in the present situation of things is become ex- 
tremely painful and I hope you will [exert] your influence with Mr. 
Meredith Hawkins, etc., etc., to return to Congress. 

2 See nos. 662, 677, 678, ante, 683, 685, 693, 694, post. Richard Henry Lee wrote 
to James Monroe from Belle View June 18 that he was on his way to New York {Letters, 
ed. Ballagh, II. 422). He did not however arrive until July 7. He took his seat on Mon- 
day, July 9. See no. 606. post. 

[683] 1 N. C. Hist. Comra., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 See no. 694, post. 
[684] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, LIX. 95. 
2 See nos. 665, 680, ante, 685, 691, post. 



614 Continental Congress 

685. Charles Thomson to William Bingham. 1 

Newyork June 25, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

On my arrival here I had the pleasure to find five States represented 
namely Massachusetts, New-York New Jersey, Virginia and South Caro- 
lina and that the attendance of Pensylvania and North Carolina would 
form a Congress. As I think it of great importance to the honor and 
safety of the Confederacy that Congress should be in session and the 
form at least of government kept up in the present situation of af- 
fairs, and as the delegates for North Carolina are now in Philadelphia 
and as one of them assured me will return immediately as soon as they 
know their attendance is necessary to form a house I have written to 
them and entreat your attendance as speedily as possible. You cannot 
imagine what an alarm the secession of the Members from Congress at 
this crisis has spread through the eastern states. Were I to hazard an 
Opinion it would be that the peace of the union and the happy termination 
of the Measures of the Convention depend on the Meeting and continuance 
of Congress and keeping up the form of government until the New plan 
is ready for Adoption. I have given similar information to Mr. Meredith 
and have written to you both in Confidence. If the President is returned 
I beg you will press him to come on immediately. 2 

686. William Grayson to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 

(Beverley Randolph). 1 
Sir, 

I have the honor of acknowledging your letter of June 6th with the 
extracts of letters from the district of Kentucki and the proceedings of 
the Executive thereon; 2 and I entirely concur with you on the propriety 
of the State's calling upon Congress either to exert the foederal force, 
in defence of her frontiers or to enable her at the expence of the Union 
to defend her citizens in such manner, as may be most likely to ensure 
success. The misfortune is that there is no Congress at present to win mi 
the application can be made; and if there was, I doubt much whether 
there would be a disposition in that body to incur any great expence for 
the security of an individual State. There are so many States who are 
protected (by their situation) from the depredations of the Indians, that 
if we judge from their conduct on Governor Henry's application last year, 
efficient measures in this respect are hardly to be expected. On that 
occasion after every exertion of the delegation, only two companies were 
procured, and these were directed by the Secretary at war to act on the 
defensive;" and As to the expenditures made by the State, I doubt 

[685I 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll.. M. O. C. (addressed to Bingham at Philadelphia). 

2 See nos. 68 1, 682, 684, ante, 691, 694, post. 
[686] « Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 299. 

2 These papers were laid before Congress July 6. See no. 677, ante, and nos. 687, 
692, 701, post. 

8 Governor Henry's application was May 16, 1786. See the Journals. May 26, 30, 
June 6, 91, 22, 29, 1786; also nos. 435, 439, ante. The resolve authorizing the two comp < 
was on June 22. 



June, 1/8/ 615 

whether ever a shilling will be allowed. I shall be happy however to find 
myself mistaken in my conjectures. 

New York June 25th, 1787. 



687. William Grayson to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 

(Beverley Randolph). 1 

New York June 27th, 1787. 
Sir, 

Your letters of June 15th and 18th with their inclosures, were recieved 
yesterday ; and I have only to lament that there is not at present a Con- 
gress, to whom the unhappy situation of the Western frontiers can be 
made know'n. In consequence of your former letter every step has been 
taken to procure a meeting of the States ; at present there are only at this 
place representations from Massachusetts, New York, Jersey, Virga. and 
So. Carolina. As soon as a sufficient number of States shall have assembled 
you may rely that every exertion will be made by the delegation to advance 
the wishes of the Executive. In the mean time your letter of June 18th 
shall be laid before the Secy, at War i e, as soon as he returns from 
Philada. and you shall with't delay be made acquainted with the result of 
our application. 2 



688. Henry Lee, jr., to . x 

dear sir, 

I have the pleasure to enclose you a letr. I received at Princeton — the 
two Mr. Randolphs there are very well. No political communications do 
I possess worthy of your attention. 

Congress have done nothing material since their circular letter relative 
to the treaty with Britain. 2 How does their doctrine relish on your river — 
well I trust only where interest forbids its admission. 

The convention move with profound secrecy, therefore no knowledge 
of their doings is public. But it is certain that this august body is plying 
assiduously to their great work and possess the best dysposition to do 
what is good and right. My best respects to your lady. 

Farewell 

Henry Lee junr. 
Alexa. 28th June '87. 

[687] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 302. 

2 The lieutenant governor's letters were laid before Congress July 6, together 
with related communications. See the Journals, July 6, 9, 11, 18, 19, 21 ; also nos. 677, 686, 
ante, 692, 701, post. 

[688] x Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, II. (endorsed: "Copied from original owned 
by Mrs. C. B. T. Coleman, Williamsburg, Va."). 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 13, and no. 634, note 2, ante. 



616 Continental Congress 

689. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

July 2d, 1787. 
Sir, 

An Absence with which Congress was pleased to indulge me in the 
beginning of May for the transaction of some private business having 
interrupted the regular Monthly Returns, I have now the honor of trans- 
mitting to your Excellency a state of the Representation in Congress for 
the Months of April, May and June. 2 

I send also herewith enclosed an Act of 3d May repealing the Requisition 
of the 2 1 st October last; An Ordinance for settling the Accounts between 
the United States and Individual States passed the 7th May; And two 
Copies of the Journal from the first Monday in November to the 10th 
May inclusive, one for the Legislative and the other for the Executive 
branch of Government. 

690. John Kean to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 1 

Dear Sir, 

I find Mr. Adams's last letters contain information of consequent 
relative to our State, which cannot be communicated too quickly to pre- 
vent similar mischief. 

Congress not being assembled no order can be made about them — but 
not being of a political or general nature but being merely information 
I should conceive they might be allowed to be transmitted without an 
order, if you join me in opinion I shall be much obliged to you fof 
extracts from them relative to the attempt of counterfeiting and the 
person attempting, to lay before our Executive. 2 

New York July 3d, 1787. 

691. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 

New York July 5, 1787. 

.... We yesterday formed a Congress of seven States and elected 

Grayson chairman — to-day we had no Congress owing to the inattention 

of two or three members — we expect Connecticut and Pennsylvania here 

in a few days 

P. S. Several concerns makes it highly important to me to make a 
short visit to Massa. some time this month or early in the next. I wish 

[689] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 120; N. C. State Recs., XX. 732. 

1 See no. 656, ante. For the schedule of attendance see under List of Members, ante. 
[690] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78., vol. XIII., f. 633. 

2 Four letters of John Adams, Apr. 10, 19, 30, and May 1, were laid before Con- 
gress July 6. They are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 738-745- The matter re- 
ferred to, a project for counterfeiting bills of North Carolina and South Carolina, is in 
the letter of Apr. 10. Cf. no. 69s, post. 

[691] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers ; Life of King, I. 227. 



July, 1787 617 

you would inform me whether there is any prospect that either of you 
will be able probably to attend Congress. 

What is best for us to do about procuring an attendance of the Eastern 
States and to renew the subject of the S. Treaty 2 

692. William Grayson to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 
(Beverley Randolph). 1 

New York July 7th, 1787. 
Sir, 

Yesterday there was a Congress of seven States. Your communications 
respecting Indian affairs were laid before them, and were referred to the 
Secretary at war for report : this may be expected in a day or two. Your 
letter on the subject of the disturbances in the back parts of No. Carolina 
has also been presented to their view, but no steps have been yet taken 
thereon. Indeed it is very difficult to get any thing done with so thin a 
representation. 2 

693. Charles Thomson to William Bingham. 1 

Newyork 8 July 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I am very sorry that any thing should intervene to prevent your at- 
tendance in Congress. Seven States assembled on Wednesday last and 
yesterday the Congress directed me to write to the executives of the 
states unrepresented and request them to urge the immediate attendance 
of their delegates as business of the greatest importance is neglected 
through their non attendance. 2 I hope if you cannot come yourself that 
you will hasten on some of your Collegues. I cannot account for the 

2 The Spanish treaty. See no. 647, note 7, ante, and nos. 697, 711, past. 

[692] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Col. Va. State Papers, IV. 312. 

2 Letters of Randolph to the delegates June 2 (relative to the State of Franklin), 
June 6, 15, 18 (respecting Indian affairs), were laid before Congress July 6. See the re- 
ports of the secretary at war, in the Journals, July 9, 11, 18, 19, 21; also nos. 677, 686, 
ante, 699, 701, 703, 70S, post. 

[693] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, "The Hon'ble William 
Bingham Philadelphia"). 

2 Cf. no. 685, ante. Thomson's letter to the states of New Hampshire, Rhode Is- 
land, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland, July 7, is in the Library of Con- 
gress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 120, and is printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 168. A 
letter from Governor Huntington of Connecticut, July 16, to Joseph Piatt Cooke, urging 
the attendance of himself and Stephen Mix Mitchell, Dr. Johnson being in attendance at the 
Federal Convention, is in Emmett Coll., no. 4176. Huntington's reply to Thomson the 
same day is noted in the Journals under July 23. See no. 709, post. Mitchell wrote to 
William Samuel Johnson from Wethersfield July 26 : 

" You have told me no tidings concerning your attendance in Congress, hence I am led 
to conclude you do not expect soon to leave Convention. Yesterday I receiv'd a Line from 
Govr. Huntington requesting me to proceed to N'w York, also one directed to Col. Cook, 
I suppose of like Import. 

" Mr. Sturgjs laid in a Resignation in May — which was read in Council and not sent 
down. Yet no Dependance is to be placed on his attendance, and no one is appointed in his 
or Mr. Canfield's place. 

" I have not as yet determin'd to repair to Congress, but hope you will be able to meet 
Col. Cook there and resume your Seat, within a few weeks." Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson 
Papers. 



618 Continental Congress 

absence of the president. It has I assure you given a good deal of offence. 
If I knew where to direct a letter to him I would take the liberty to write 
and urge him to come on as speedily as possible. 8 

694. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York July 10th 1787. 
Sir, 

On the 1 8th June Mr. Hawkins and myself left this for Philadelphia, 
on my arrival I took my seat in Convention and he agreed for his passage 
to Petersburg, after having been there a few days, we received a Letter 
from Charles Thomson informing us that our presence would complete 
seven States in Congress and that a Congress was absolutely necessary 
for the great purposes of the Union ; whereupon we returned here on the 
4th Instant and formed a Congress and we consider ourselves bound to 
continue untill some other State comes up of which we are in hourly 
Expectation and then I shall proceed to the Convention and he will return 
Home. 

I conceived it more for the Benefit and honor of the State in which 
Opinion my Colleagues in the Convention agreed to return with Mr. 
Hawkins and represent the State in Congress than to continue in the 
Convention especially as my Colleagues in that Body were generally 
unanimous and competent to the Purposes of their Mission, in this 
Instance I hope my conduct will meet the Approbation of your Excellency 
and my fellow Citizens. 3 

695. Benjamin Hawkins to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

New- York the 10th July, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote to your Excellency in June and informed you of my intention 
to return to North Carolina immediately on the arrival of Mr. Burton : 
and accordingly I set out as early as practicable by way of Philadelphia. 

Mr. Ashe and Mr. Burton, having thought proper to return to North 
Carolina, for reasons which they did assign to you the State for a short 
period was unrepresented. 

It being of great importance to the Union at this time particularly, 
that Congress should be and continue in Session, the members present 
and the Secretary wrote after me and Mr. Blount and requested our return. 
The letters reached me on the eve of my departure for Virginia, and 
altho' I had but scanty means of support, having not drawn on the public 

■ Sec no. 658, ante. President St. Clair and William Irvine were in attendance 
July 17, Bingham July 25. 

[694] 1 George C. Thomas Coll., Philadelphia; N. C. State Recs., XX. 734; Farrand, 
Records of the Federal Convention, III. 57. 

2 See nos. 662, 682, ante, 695, 720, post. 
[69s] 1 Library of Congress, Personal, Hawkins (see note 4, below) ; N. C. Hist. Comm., 
Governor's Letter-Book (copy) ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 735. 



July, 1787 619 

resources and my own being nearly exhausted yet I determined to return 
induced thereto in a great measure From a hope of being able to procure 
some aid from the Union towards the protection of our Western Citizens, 
and of securing and preserving our right to the free and common use 
of the navigation of the Mississippi. 

The first we find to be impracticable from the want of information, 
and, our having but seven States represented in Congress. But the latter 
which is very interesting to the Western citizens of the Southern States, 
as it regards their peace and welfare, has at length, from a variety of 
circumstances unnecessary as well perhaps as improper to relate been put 
in a better situation than heretofore. 

As soon as an other State shall arrive, and in the expectation of the 
return of Mr's Ashe and Burton agreeable with their promise, I shall 
set [out] again for North Carolina and Mr. Blount to the Convention 
in Philadelphia. 2 

The Secretary for foreign affairs will send you some information from 
Mr Adams, of an attempt to counterfeit our currency in Great Britain. 3 
With that Kingdom we have no prospects of a commercial treaty.* 

It may be deemed unnecessary and impertinent in me to say (although 
I concur in opinion with the most respectable of our citizens) that it is 
indispensably necessary for the well being of the Southern States, that 
they should keep up respectable representations in Congress until their 
rights are perfectly secured. 

696. Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee. 1 

New York July 14th, 1787. 
My dear brother, 

I arrived at this place a week ago almost destroyed with heat and fatigue. 
Here I found Grayson in the Chair of Congress as Locum Tenens for the 
President who is absent. 2 After some difficulty we passed an Ordinance 
for establishing a temporary Government beyond the Ohio as prepara- 
tory to the sale of that Country. And now we are considering an offer 
made to purchase 5 or 6 Millions of Acres with pub. Securities. I hope we 
shall agree with the Offer, but realy the difficulty is so great to get any- 
thing done, that it is not easy for the plainest propositions to succeed. 3 

2 See no. 694, ante. 

8 Jay's letter to Caswell, July 3, is in N. C. State Recs., XX. 732. See no. 690, ante. 

* The letter in the Library of Congress ends here. The remainder of the original, 
a detached sheet, was at one time in the possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York, 
and was copied at that time. Accordingly the original letter is here reproduced in its 
entirety, except the formal conclusion and signature. 

[696]* Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 423. 

2 See no. 693, note 3, ante. 

8 The ordinance for the government of the territory northwest of the river Ohio 
was read a first time July 11, a second time July 12, and adopted July 13. See the Journals, 
Apr. 26, May 9, 10, and July 9, the Bibliographical Notes under May 9 and July 13, and 
nos. 394, 425, 442, 443, 483, 506, 645-647, ante; cf. nos. 697, 698, 705, 710, 711, past. On 
July 14 Secretary Thomson transmitted a copy of the ordinance to each of the states 
(Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 122). To New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
Pennsylvania, and Maryland he transmitted at the same time a copy of his letter of July 7 
relative to the attendance of their delegates (see no. 693, ante). The letter to Pennsyl- 

46 



620 Continental Congress 

We owe much money, the pressure of Taxes is very great and much com- 
plained of. we have now something to sell that will pay the debt and dis- 
charge the greatest part of the Taxes, and altho this something is in a fair 
way of being soon wrested from us by the Sons of Violence, yet we have 
a thousand little difficulties that prevent us from selling! I found the 
Convention at Phila. very busy and very secret, it would seem however, 
from variety of circumstances that we shall hear of a Government not 
unlike the B. Constitution, that is, an Executive with 2 branches compos- 
ing a federal Legislature and possessing adequate Tone 

697. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York July 15, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have the honor to inclose to you an Ordinance that we have just passed 
in Congress for establishing a temporary Government beyond the Ohio, 
as a measure preparatory to the sale of the Lands. It seemed necessary, 
for the security of property among uninformed, and perhaps licentious 
people as the greater part of those who go there are, that a strong toned 
government should exist, and the rights of property be clearly defined. 
Our next object, is to consider of a proposition made for the purchase of 
5 or 6 millions of Acres, in order to lessen the domestic debt. An object 
of much consequence this, since the extinguishment of this part of the 
public debt would not only relieve from a very heavy burden, but by 
demolishing the Ocean of public Securities, we should stop that mis- 
chievous deluge of speculation that now hurts our morafs, and extremely 
injures the public affairs. 2 

Our Gazettes continue to be filled with publications against the Spanish 
Treaty and for opening the Mississippi, some of them plausible, but gen- 
erally weak and indecent. 8 This seems to be contending for an Object 
unatainable for many years and probably never Without War not only 
with Spain, but most likely with the Bourbon Alliance — And by such 
contention exposing the Government of the United States to a dishonor- 
able acquiescence under the Captivity of its Citizens and Confiscation of 
their effects by Spain on the Mississippi, or entering prematurely into a 

vania is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 168; the ordinance is ibid., p. 162. The ordinance is also 
in N. C. State Recs., XX. 740. Concerning the sale of lands to the Ohio Company see the 
Journals, May 9, July 10, 14, 17, 20, 23, 27. Shortly after making the purchase the Ohio 
Company issued a pamphlet entitled, Articles of an Association, by the Name of the Ohio 
Company, which included, besides the "Articles of Agreement " entered into by the 
subscribers to the company, the report of the committee of Congress July 23, the resolu- 
tions of Congress July 27, a report of Rev. Manasseh Cutler to the directors and agents of 
the company at a meeting in Boston, resolutions of the company Aug. 30 relative to the 
founding of a city, the ordinance, and extracts of some letters of St. John de Creve Coeur 
descriptive of the country. Evans (Am. Bibliog., VII. 20605) lists three copies of the 
pamphlet. A fourth copy, long owned by Mr. Albert R. Merrill of Hamilton, Massa- 
chusetts, and presented by him to Wellesley College, is probably one of the earliest im- 
prints, since it does not contain the concluding lines on the title-page as quoted by 1 
(letter of Mr. Merrill to this editor, Feb. 27, 1935). 

[697]' Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 174; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 425. 

1 See no. 696, ante. 

8 See nos. 636-640, 645. 647, 651, 661, 691, ante, 932, 934, 937, 938, 942. Post. 



July, 1/8/ 621 

destructive war in resentment for such doings. At the same time discard- 
ing the friendship for the enmity of a powerful Monarch, and thereby 
probably lose what we may possess, our Share of a Commerce that yields 
annually 4 or 5 millions of dollars for Cod fish only, independant of the 
Flour and many valuable articles of American production, used in Spain 
and not interfering with their own products. To say nothing of a most 
lucrative contraband Trade from the Ocean and on the Mississippi which 
a friend might wink at, but which a vigilant and powerful enemy will 
prevent. It seems to me that N. America is going, if we are prudent, to 
be the Entrepot between the East Indies and Spanish America. If to 
these we could join the settlement of a disputed boundary and obtain a 
powerful Guarantee therefor, surely such considerations greatly outweigh 
the farsought apprehension of an Alliance of the Kentuckians with the 
British, and especially when we consider that a conduct which will pro- 
cure the enmity of Spain, will probably force her into the open arms of 
G. Britain, much to our Commercial and political injury. And after all, 
if this navigation could be opened and the benefits be such as are chimeri- 
cally supposed, it must in its consequences depopulate and ruin the old 
States. 

The argument may shortly thus be stated — Spain will not agree to the 
Navigation within her limits. Can we force it in twenty-five years — If 
we cannot, why risk, for an unattainable object, the loss of valuable Ob- 
jects, and the incurring pernicious consequences. A candid and impartial 
consideration of this subject, must, I think determine the question with- 
out difficulty. But I beg your pardon Sir, for writing so much on this 
question, which I doubt not but you have fully considered before. 

698. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 

New York, July 16, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I am obliged to you for yours of the nth inst 2 with pleasure I com- 
municate to you what we are doing in Congress, not so much from a con- 
sciousness that what we do is well done, as from a desire that you may be 
acquainted with our proceedings. We have been much engaged in busi- 
ness for ten or twelve days, for a part of which we have had eight States. 
There appears to be a disposition to do business and the arrival of R. H. 
Lee is of considerable importance. I think his character serves, at least 
in some degree, to check the effects of the feeble habits and lax mode of 
thinking of some of his countrymen. We have been employed about sev- 
eral objects, the principal of which have been the government inclosed and 
the Ohio purchase; the former you will see is completed, and the latter 
will probably be completed tomorrow. We tried one day to patch up 

[698] ] Life of King, I. 289: Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 430. 

2 King also wrote to General Knox July n, declaring that he could not even con- 
jecture what the convention would do (Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XX. 129). See 
Knox to King July 15, in Drake, Life of Knox. p. 95, and in Life of King, I. 228. A letter 
from King, July 15, to Alexander Hodgden, treasurer of Massachusetts, requesting his 
pay, was at one time in possession of W. R. Benjamin of New York. 



622 Continental Congress 

M 's p. system of W. government 8 — started new ideas and committed 

the whole to Carrington, Dane, R. H. Lee, Smith and Kean. We met sev- 
eral times, and at last agreed on some principles — at least Lee, Smith and 
myself. We found ourselves rather pressed. The Ohio company appeared 
to purchase a large tract of federal lands — about six or seven millions of 
acres — and we wanted to abolish the old system and get a better one for 
the government of the country, and we finally found it necessary to adopt 
the best system we could get. All agreed finally to the inclosed plan except 
A. Yates. He appeared in this case, as in most others, not to understand 
the subject at all. 4 I think the number of free inhabitants, 60,000, which 
are requisite for the admission of a new State into the Confederacy, is too 
small ; but, having divided the whole Territory into three States, this num- 
ber appears to me to be less important. Each State in the common course 
of things must become important soon after it shall have that number of 
inhabitants. The Eastern State of the three will probably be the first, and 
more important than the rest, and will no doubt be settled chiefly by East- 
ern people; and there is, I think, full an equal chance of its adopting East- 
ern politics. When I drew the ordinance (which passed, a few \\ 
excepted, as I originally formed it) I had no idea the States would agree 
to the sixth article, prohibiting slavery, as only Massachusetts of the East- 
ern States, was present, and therefore omitted it in the draft ; but finding 
the House favorably disposed on this subject, after we had completed the 
other parts, I moved the article, which was agreed to without opposition. 5 
We are in a fair way to fix the terms of our Ohio sale, etc. We have been 
upon it three days steadily. The magnitude of the purchase makes us very 
cautious about the terms of it and the security necessary to insure the 
performance of it. 6 

We have directed the Board to examine and report on Holkar's 
affair. 7 .... 

8 If this is a correct reading of Dane's manuscript, the reference is doubtle^ 
the plan of a temporary government reported May 10, 1786, by a committee of which 
Monroe was chairman. See Monroe to Jefferson May 11, June 16, July 16 (nos. 304, 425. 
443, ante) ; cf. no. 711, post. Chapter XV. of the Life of King is an examination at large 
of the question, "Who framed the Ordinance of '87?". For other examinations of the 
subject see W. F. Poole, in Am. Hist. Assoc., Papers, III. 287-293; B. A. Hinsdale, Tkt 
Old Northwest (ed. 1809), ch. XV. 

4 See nos. 696, 697, ante, and nos. 705, 706, 707, 710, 711, post. In the vote on the 
ordinance Yates cast the only negative. 

8 Cf. nos. 105, 118, ante, and no. 711, post. Article six, prohibiting slavery in the 
territory, does not appear in the report read July II. With the omission of the phrase 
" after the year 1800 of the christian Era " and some minor variations in phraseology it is 
the same as the report of the committee Apr. 6, 1785, on Kind's motion of Mar. id. that 
motion being in nearly the language of Jefferson's proposal of Mar. 1, 1784. The proviso 
respecting fugitive slaves appeared for the first time in the committee report of Apr. 6, 

1785- 

6 See nos. 645-647, ante, and nos. 707, 711, post. 

7 A letter from John Holker to the board of treasury, Feb. 10, 1785, respecting 
Robert Morris's claim against him was read in Congress Feb. 17, 1785. 



July, 1787 623 

699. Edward Carrington to the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia 

(Beverley Randolph). 1 

Sir New York July 17, 1787. 

I do myself the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of the 
29th of June and 6th Instant. 

Congress have reassembled, but not in sufficient force for directing the 
necessary measures in the Western Country, the various communications 
with which we have been honoured respecting the hostilities in that quarter, 
have been submitted to the consideration of Congress, in a few days we 
shall probably have Nine States on the floor, and then we shall urge an 
immediate decision. 2 

700. William Blount to John Gray Blount. 1 

Dear Sir, Newyork July i 9 th 1787. 

Herewith I forward to your address the Papers of today in one of 
which is contained a Letter dated at Nashville May 1st addressed to the 
Honorable B. H. 2 You will readily conjecture it was fabricated by a Per- 
son better informed that [than] any Inhabitant of Davidson County 
can be it only remains for me to tell you that it has been written on my 
Motion in the first Inst and by my Friend H. W. s It has been here much 
applauded as well written and it certainly is well timed. He is not sus- 
pected of being the Author. 4 It has been translated into french and will 
be published in Paris and London. 

1 5 arrived here on the 3d July from Philadelphia accompanyed by 
Mr. Hawkins the Reasons that induced us to do We have given you in 
official Letters by Post which I suppose will be to hand before this. 8 We 
have at present nine States on the floor, and I have from day to day for 
several days past been about to return to Philadelphia but sundry things 
which require the Assent of that Number of States has been so pressing 
and still continues so to be that I believe we shall continue here untill 
Sunday (we are so now 7 industrious that we sit on Saturday). I had 
yesterday a letter from Davie 8 in which he says " since you left us We 

[699] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 317. 

2 See the Journals, July 6, 9, 11, 18, 19, 21, 25, 31, Aug. 2, 3, 9; also nos. 703, 70S, 
707, 710, post. Cf. nos. 686, 692, ante. 

[700] x N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 Benjamin Hawkins. The letter is in the New York Journal and Weekly Reg- 
ister, July 19, 1787, under the heading, " Extract of a letter to the Hon. B. H. dated at 
Nashville, in Davidson county, May 1, 1787". 

3 Hugh Williamson. He was at this time at Edenton, North Carolina. A letter 
from him to John Gray Blount, July 19 (as well as other letters), is among the John 
Gray Blount Papers. 

4 The following clause was added, then erased : " and that he is, is known only 
to B. H. and myself". 

6 "Blount began the paragraph: "I had a Letter yesterday from", but erased the 
words. Farther on he says, " I had yesterday a letter from Davie ". 

6 See nos. 694, 695, ante. 

7 The word " now " is inserted above the line and marked to follow " so ". 

8 William R. Davie, one of the North Carolina members of the Federal Conven- 
tion. A line is drawn through the letters " avie ". The sentence " H. W. are there Head ", 
below, was doubtless meant to be parenthetical. 



624 Continental Congress 

have progressed obliquely and retrogaded directly so that we stand on the 
same Spot you left us " and when I left them much Progress was not 
made. My Colleagues were very unanimous. H.W. are there [sic] Head 
and were in Sentiment with Virginia who seemed to take the lead Madi- 
son at their Head tho Randolph and Mason are also great. The general 
outlines were to have a National Assembly composed of three Branches 
the first to be elected by the People at large and to consist of about 70 
Members, the second Branch of a less Number to be chosen by the respec- 
tive Legislatures for a longer Duration and the third an Executive of a 
single Man for a still longer Time. I must confess not withstanding all I 
heard in favour of this System I am not in sentiment with my Colleagues 
for as I have before said I still think we shall ultimately end not many 
Years just be seperate and distinct Goverments perfectly independent of 
each other. The little States were much opposed to the Politicks of the 
larger they insisted that each State ought to have an equal vote as in the 
present Confederation. Congress yesterday received a Letter from Mr. 
Brandt written in the Indian Language informing that all the Nations of 
Indians of the North West of the Ohio had formed a Confederacy offen- 
sive and Defensive, it was couched in hostile Language and contained a 
request in the Terms of a Demand that our Surveyors should desist from 
survey [sic] the Lands west of the Ohio. daily Accounts from Kentuckey 
prove the Indians are hostile on that quarter and by the Report of the 
Superintendent 10 from the Creeks there is much Reason to fear Hostili- 
ties will shortly commence between them and the Citizens of Georgia. 
There has been at Philadelphia a Mr. Drungold u with a Cherokee and 
John Woods with a Chickasaw and Choctaw and have all returned the 
two latter by way of Fort Pitt, the former complained loudly against the 
Infraction of the Treaty at Hopewell in as much as that the Whites had 
settled within a few Miles of their Towns and within that part assigned 
them by the State of N. Ca. I would wish the Whites had forborn their 
settlements on that part — the other two complained that Trade had not been 
sent among them as they were taught to expect and that they were suffer- 
ing for the Want of the promised supplies in short we have three Rep 
from the secretary at War on Indian Affairs, one in particular which is 
the subject of this day recommends the stationing Continental Troops on 
the Ohio in different parts as low as the Rapids and the calling out Militia 
on Continental pay to protect the Kentuckey and other Inhabitants on the 
east side of the Ohio." 

The foregoing is a Copy or rather the rough original of a piece of 
writing this day forwarded by Water via New Bern to the friend of the 
Writer at Kinston. 18 

8 The Brant letter, together with related communications, was laid MtJ 
gress by the secretary at war July 18. For the action taken by Congress see the Journals, 
July 19, 21, 25, 31, Aug. 9. 

10 See the list of sundry letters laid before Congress July 9 and the report of the 
secretary at war in the Journals, July 18. Cf. MM. 686, 692, ante, 703, 705. post. 

11 Alexander Dromgoole. See the Journals, July 9. 18. Cf. Edmund Randolph to 
the lieutenant governor of Virginia July 12, in Cal. Fa. State Ptfert, IV. 315. 

12 See the Journals, July 19. 

18 The letter has neither address nor signature, doubtless for the reason that Blount 
had overstepped his privilege in revealing proceedings of the convention. 



July, 1/8/ 625 

701. The Virginia Delegates to the Lieutenant Governor of 
Virginia (Beverley Randolph). 1 

«... New York July 22, 1787. 

We do ourselves the honor to enclose a report of the Treasury Board, 
upon the Governors letter of the 18th of April, upon the subject of the 
Indents for 1786. 2 

The same disposition to the case of the people, which induced Congress 
at the time of making the requisition, to admit Indents in payment of 
such part of it, as is for the Interest of the domestic debt, must, doubtless, 
now induce a favorable ear to the complaint of a State, that those facilities 
are withheld by the Executive Officers of the United States. In pursuance 
of this disposition the complaint of Virginia was referred to the Treasury 
Board for their Answer, this is composed of a Statement of facts, drawn 
from the Acts of the State; the information of the Loan Officer; and 
actual experiments upon some of the Acts, in former requisitions, the 
result of this Statement is, that the funds appropriated for the payment 
of the requisition, are greatly deficient. Neither Congress, nor the dele- 
gation of the State, are in possession of sufficient knowledge of the pro- 
ductiveness of those funds, for ascertaining the propriety or impropriety 
of this report ; nor is it to be expected that Congress will supercede it, with- 
out evidence of its being wrong. Conceiving it to be our duty, to procure 
an opportunity for this to be done on the part of the State, we have obtained, 
and now transmit, this Copy of the Report, should the Executive find it 
practicable to oppose to it sufficient evidence of the adequacy of the Funds, 
we shall be ready to lay it before Congress, and are convinced it will have 
due weight with that body. The Statement of the Treasury Board 3 does 
not comprehend all the Funds appropriated to the requisition, but what 
they have omitted, would add but little to the result of their calculations. 
Anxcious to be immediately instrumental in removing this difficulty, we 
have attempted a calculation upon these funds, and could we have brought 
them to any thing like the necessary Sum, we should have endeavoured to 
obtain a reliance upon them; but of this, we have fallen far short, — our 
Statement is enclosed for your inspection — knowing that our information 
upon the subject must be very imperfect, we have not communicated this 
Statement to, either Congress, or the Treasury Board, that both may be 
fairly open to receive that which, the more perfect knowledge of the Execu- 
tive, may produce. 

The Executive must readily perceive the extensive mischeif that would 
arise to the honor and credit of the United States, from an order of Con- 
gress for the issuing of Indents in Virginia, before the establishment of 
the adequacy of her funds to the requisition, as it would necessarily lead 
to the gratification of all the States, and, thus, an enormous addition 

[701] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson, Richard Henry Lee, and 
Carrington). 

2 The report of the board of treasury is in the Journals, July II. See no. 671. 
ante; cf. nos. 741, 744, 748, 759, post. The report was referred to a committee, but on 
July 16 the committee was discharged and a copy of the report, as recommended by the 
board of treasury, was furnished the Virginia delegates. 

8 The statement referred to is embodied in the treasury report. 



626 Continental Congress 

would be made to that Mass of unfunded paper which already overwhelm? 
us : in the mean time we have the pleasure to assure you, Sir, of the perfect 
impartiality of the Treasury Board upon this subject — all the Acts for 
complying with the requisition are reported by the loan Officers to be 
defective in funds, and the Indents are accordingly withheld from all the 
States. 

We also have the honor to enclose an extract of a letter from Mr. Hop- 
kins 4 to the Treasury Board, informing them that the Executive have 
ordered all payments for federal purposes to be suspended, until the Indents 
for 1786 be issued, or those of 1785, admitted in discharge of the requisi- 
tion of 1786 — this determination must, we conceive, have been founded, 
either upon an apprehension that the indents now in the Treasurers hands, 
are not payable upon the requisitions of 84 and 85, and, that unless the 
Treasury Board exercise a power supposed to be possessed by them, of 
directing them to be received for that of 1786, they must sink in the 
hands of the State, or go to the extinguishment of the requisition of Sep- 
tember 1782 ; or a supposition that the Indents for 1786, are withheld with- 
out just cause. To the latter ground of complaint, the above report fully 
applies — as to the former, we enclose a Statement of the Treasury Board 
which shews, not only that the State has the power, but that it is for her 
Interest, to pay the Indents on hand upon the requisitions of 1784 and 
1785 — their remarks upon this point are so full that it is unnecessary for 
us to add to them : but as to the payment of these Indents upon the requi- 
sition of 1786, we beg leave to observe, that the annual requisitions are 
founded upon the current demands of the public — that for 86 comprehends 
one years Interest of the domestic debt, and no more, the admission, 
therefore, of indents for 85, in discharge of it, would occasion a deficiency 
and confuse the systems of finance. You will observe, Sir, that the Indents 
for 1785 are receivable upon the requisitions of 82 and 84, by Special reso- 
lutions of Congress annexed to the Statement of the Board, which have 
been either unknown, or unattended to, by the Loan Officer, and of course 
escaped the observation of the Committee of Finance at the last session, 
upon general ground the Statement of this Committee, was a just one, 
as those resolutions were occasioned by the particular circumstance of the 
Indents of 85, involving, in many instances, the Interest intended to be 
covered by the former requisitions, these observations shew, not only that 
the Treasury Board are unauthorised to admit the Indents of 1785, in 
payment of the requisition of 1786, but also, that it would be improper 
for Congress to do so. 

Our concern in this business arises as well from a sence of duty, as a 
sincere desire, to preserve between the federal and State administrations, 
that harmony, which is absolutely necessary to the redemption of our 
affairs from the ruinous State in which they are, and we are convinced the 
Executive will give our communications a candid and liberal consideration. 

As to the Stoppage of the payments on federal account, it is not for 
us to say more, than that it exposes the Interests and credit of the United 
States, to the most fatal injuries. 

4 John Hopkins was commissioner of the loan office for the state of Virginia. 



July, 1787 627 

702. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Lee Shippen. 1 

New York July 22d, 1787. 
My dear Cousin, 

Having recover'd my health much better than I ever expected to have 
done, I have again taken my Seat in Congress — I arrived in this City a 
fortnight ago, having stayed a week in Philadela. 2 .... Congress is 
proceeding with the ordinary business until the Convention shall report 
their plan for consideration and recommendation to the different States — 
I suppose it will be recommended to the States to call Conventions for the 
special purpose of approving the new System, that it may rest on the 
broad base of the peoples choice rather than on the more feeble opinion of 
the ordinary Legislatures — .... I pray you to remember me affec- 
tionately to Mr. Adams 3 and inform him that I will shortly write to 
him. Congress have not yet determined on complying with his request to 
be permitted to return home, but when they shall do so, I will certainly 
do my endeavor to have Colo. Smith appointed Charge des Affairs at the 
Court of London if such shd. be the plan fixt on 

P.S. July 50. The want of 9 states prevents a determination on Mr. 
Adams's business by this packet, so that we do not know the future 
arrangement. 4 .... 



703. The Secretary of Congress to the Lieutenant Governor of 
Virginia (Beverley Randolph). 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congress 

Julv 23, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed an 
Act of the United States in Congress Assembled passed the 21st in conse- 
quence of a report on the incursions and depredations on the frontiers of 
your State by the Wabash Indians the Shawanese and other hostile tribes. 

While this matter was under consideration Congress received informa- 
tion of a general Confederacy formed by the five Nations and the other 
tribes within the territory of the United States North west of the Ohio 
and an Offer of the said Confederacy to treat of peace. On this Congress 
are now deliberating. As soon as they have come to a determination 
thereon, the result will be communicated to your Excellency. 2 

[702] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 427. 

2 See nos. 682, 696, ante. 

3 John Adams, minister to England. Shippen was then in England. See Lee to 
Shippen Apr. 17 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 417). Lee wrote to Adams Sept. 5 (ibid., 
p. 433, extract; no. 724, post). 

4 See the Journals, July 26, Oct. 5 ; also nos. 711, 716, 724, 744, 749, post. 

[703] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. ; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 124. 

2 See nos. 686, 692, 699, ante, 705, 707, 710, 711, post. 



628 Continental Congress 

704. The Secretary of Congress to Charles Pinckney. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress. 

July 23d, 1787. 
Sir, 

I find by a Memorandum in the Office that an Act of the State of Georgia 
to regulate trade etc: and a protest of the Commissioners of Georgia — 
the answer thereto, a second protest and answer 3 and 28 November — 
Papers which among others were transmitted to Congress by the Commis- 
sioners for treating with the Southern Indians, were on the 7th of June 
1 786 delivered to you and do not appear to have been returned — As those 
Papers are now wanted, I must request the favour of you to look them out 
and transmit them to me by the return of the post. 

Hon'ble Charles Pinckney Esq. 2 



705. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York July 25, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We are trying to do something with our Western Territory to 
make it useful to the purposes for which the United States were vested 
with it. you have seen in the papers the scheme for the temporary as well 
as perpetual government of it. a practicable measure for the sale of it, 
or rather, by means of it to redeem the domestic debt, remains still to be 
agreed upon, and I fear the difficulties which have always stood in the way 
of this great object, are not yet to be surmounted. Colo. Lee joins Grayson 
and myself with great zeal, but what will be the issue of our efforts I 
know not. 2 .... 

As to the hostilities upon Kentucky the superintendant of Indian affairs, 
or in case of his inability to go, Colo. Josiah Harmar, is ordered to pro- 
ceed immediately to some convenient place for holding a Treaty with the 
hostile tribes, and by that means restore peace between them and our 
people if practicable, in the mean time Colo. Harmar is so to post the 
Federal Troops as to provide the best defence for the Country, and to 
call for such aid of Militia as he shall find necessary, should the Treaty 
not succeed report is to be made to Congress for their further orders as to 
offensive operations, the state of the general confederacy requires some 
care in the direction of this business. 8 .... 

[704] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 123. 

2 Pinckney was then attending the Federal Convention at Philadelphia. 
[705] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
II.436. 

2 A letter from Manasseh Cutler and Winthrop Sargent, in behalf of the Ohio 
Company, July 26, making an offer of purchase, was laid before Congress July 27 and 
referred to the board of treasury " to take order " ; that is to say, the offer was accepted by 
Congress. See nos. 696-698, 703, ante, 707, 710, 711, post. The original of the Cutler 
and Sargent letter is in Cont. Cong., Misc. 

• See the Journals, July 10, 21 ; cf. nos. 692, 699, 703, ante, 741, 747, post. 



July, 1787 629 

706. William Pierce to William Short. 1 

New York, July 25th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Letter of the April last, I received about a Week ago. I wish I had 
time, by this opportunity, to answer it fully. Some business at present 
prevents me. 

I was very fearful that my short address from Savannah had wandered, 
out of its way, and instead of finding its Friend, had got into the hands 
of an Enemy. It gave me pleasure on the receipt of yours to find that it 
was in your possession. 

As some material changes have taken place in Virginia, and in America 
generally, you will no doubt expect much information from your corre- 
spondents in this quarter. I cannot, however at present, arrange my mate- 
rials so as to give you a long Letter. Carrington, no doubt, will give you 
every information of the Virginia affairs, as to Georgia you know nothing 
about it and therefore can feel no curiosity about the circumstances of that 
Country. I will then confine myself to such things as are imediately 
around me. 

In January last I took my seat in Congress, and continued untill May, 
when I met the Delegates from the different States, in Convention, at 
Philadelphia. After continuing in that Council untill all the first principles 
of the new Government were established, I came on again to New York, 
and am now in Congress. The business of the Convention is now going 
on with some degree of harmony. I dare not communicate any of its 
proceedings. 

The affairs of Congress, I imagine, you get regular information about. 
The most material business that we have lately compleated is the Gov- 
ernment of the Western Country, and the direction given to the board of 
Treasury to sell a large tract of the Western Lands, by which we may 
probably sink four or five millions of the domestic debt. 2 At present our 
attention is drawn to the hostile posture of the Indians, but we have con- 
cluded on nothing. I enclose you a report of the secretary of War that you 
may form some idea of our situation. 8 .... 

707. Richard Henry Lee to William Lee ( P). 1 

New York July 30, 1787. 
My dear Brother, 

.... I have been here near a month, since which nothing remarkable 
hath occured. in Congress, since my coming, we have passed an Ordinance 
for establishing a temporary government beyond the Ohio, for the more 
perfect security of Peace and property among the rude people who will 
probably be the first settlers there. The form of this government, as you 

[706] 1 Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, III. 403. 

2 See the Journals, July 23, 27 ; also nos. 698, 705, ante. 

3 Probably the report relative to the Southern Indians, July 18. 

[707] 1 Va. Hist. Soc., Lee Papers, IV. 103; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 430 (conjecturally 
to Col. Henry Lee, who was not, however, a brother). On several grounds it is concluded 
that the letter was probably to William Lee. 



C30 Continental Congress 

will see by the enclosed paper, is much more tonic than our democratic 
forms on the Atlantic are. 2 We have also ratified a Treaty of peace and 
commerce with the Emperor of Morocco as you will find also in the paper. 
This Treaty will give some relief to our Mediterranean Trade, and may 
facilitate treaties with the other Piratical States. 8 Congress have just 
finished a contract with a Company of Adventurers for the sale of five 
million acres on the Northwest line of the Virga. Cession,* by which sale, 
after all deductions, we hope to extinguish four millions of dollars of the 
principal of the domestic debt, which as far as [it has been] liquidated 
amounts to twenty s[even] millions, five hundred sixty nine thousand, 
five hundred and seventy five dollars and twenty seven ninetieths. It is 
supposed that when the whole debt is liquidated that it will amount to 
30 millions. We are now digesting a plan for settling the land between 
the Scioto and the great Miami, this is a fine country and the lands equal 
to any beyond the Ohio. Out of this, between the [Lit] tie Mi [ami] and 
Scioto, is to come the Land for our Line [o]f the [l]ate Army. 5 .... 



708. Pierce Butler to Weedon Butler. 1 

New York, August 1st. 17S7 
Dear Sir, 

.... My last letter from Carolina would inform You of my intended 
visit to Philadelphia. As I declined the honor my 2 fellow Citizens offered 
me of the Chief Magistracy, I coud not refuse the last Appointment of 
Acting as One of their Commissioners to the Convention to be held at 
Philadelphia. No doubt you have heard of the purport of the meeting, — 
to form a stronger Constitution on strict Foederal Principles, for the 
Governm't of the whole. I hope We may succeed. 8 Our Country expect 
much of Us. We have satt every day since the 25th of May till last 
Saturday, when We adjourned for one week — having placed my Family 
here, Philadelphia not being so healthy, I embraced the opportunity of 
visiting them. I go back to Philada. on Sunday ; and shall return home 
the first week in November 

2 See the Journals, July 13 ; also nos. 696-698, ante. 

8 The treaty with Morocco was laid before Congress Apr. 12, reported upon by the 
secretary for foreign affairs May 8 (see nos. 632, 635, 639, ante), and ratified July 18. 
On July 21 Secretary Thomson transmitted copies of the treaty to the several states 
(Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 123; N. C. State Recs., XX. 750; in the Library of Coflgl 
Misc. MSS., is one of the circular letters, inadvertently dated July 12). Concerning the 
negotiation of the treaty see nos. 453 (note 2), 471, 506, ante. Jay transmitted the pro- 
ceedings of Congress July 18 and 23, in connection with the ratification, to Jefferson July 24 
(Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 43). On July 27 he wrote a circular letter to the 
states, transmitting the signals agreed upon to be used between the United States and 
Morocco (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 171 ; N. C. State Recs., XX). Cf. nos. 716, 759, Post. 

4 See the Journals, July 23, 27 ; also nos. 696-698, 705, ante. 

6 The matter was initiated Apr. 26 by a letter of the secretary at war, which was 
referred to a committee May 2. The committee reported Oct. 12, and action was taken 
Oct. 22. See nos. 711, 723. 747, 748, 759, post. 

[708] * British Museum, Additional MSS., 16603; Library of Congress, transcript: Far- 
rand, Records of the Federal Convention, III. 67. 

2 The printed text has " honorary." 

» See no. 742, note 2, post. 



August, 1787 631 

709. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

August 6th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have received the letters which your Excellency did me the honor to 
write on the 16th and 30th July. From the conclusion of the first I 
flattered myself with the hopes of seeing your State speedily represented 
in Congress. But finding myself disappointed in this expectation, I beg 
leave again to call your attention to this matter, assuring you that in my 
opinion the honor interest and peace of the Union require an immediate 
and full representation of the States in Congress. 2 



710. Edward Carrington to James Monroe. 1 

New York August 7, 1787. 
D'r Sir, 

.... We have at last made a brake into the Western Lands, the 
Ohio Company have adjusted with Congress a contract for 4 or 5 Million 
of Acres in a body on the east side of Sioto at f ds of a dol per Acre, 
to lay it out into Township agreably to the L'd ordinance, and leave three 
sections in each Township, for the future disposition of Congress, this 
I hold a great bargain for the U. S. as the Land goes good and bad 
together, and it will be a means of introducing into the Country, in the 
first instance, a discription of Men who will fix the character and politics 
throughout the whole territory, and which will probably endure to the 
latest period of time. This company is formed of the best men in 
Connecticut and Massachusetts, and they will move out immediately. I 
am about to join them with a few shares; what think you of such an 
adventure? 2 .... 



711. William Grayson to James Monroe. 1 

N York Augt., 8th 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Since my last, Congress has passed the Ordnance for the govern- 
ment of the Western country, in a manner something different from the 
one which you drew, though I expect the departure is not so essential 
but that it will meet your approbation : 2 You will observe that the consent 
of Virginia is necessary to intitle the people to certain rights, as also that 

[709] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 126. 

2 See no. 693, note 2, ante. 
[710] l Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Bancroft, Formation oj the Constitution, 
II. 435- 

2 Cf. nos. 696, 607, 698, 707, ante, 711, 723, 726, post. 
[71 1] 1 Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 

II- 437- 

2 See no. 698, note 3, ante. 



632 Continental Congress 

the former Act is repealed absolutely: I am satisfied, therefore, you 
will do every thing in your power to get the State to alter her act of 
cession in such a manner, as will square with the Ordnance : It seems the 
subject was not taken up last year. The clause respecting slavery was 
agreed to by the Southern members for the purpose of preventing Tobacco 
and Indigo from being made on the N. W. side of the Ohio as well as for 
sev'l other political reasons. After this Ordnance was passed, in Congress, 
the Eastern Ohio comp'y came forward, and have agreed with Congress for 
between 5 and 6 Million of acres lying between the Scioto and the Western 
bound'y of the seven ranges and extending back into the Country about 
sixty m's, On the following terms viz One doll'r per Acre, public securities, 
deducting one third of a dollar for bad land, and surv'g etc. the Comp'y 
to pay half a Million on the signing the contract; half a Million on the 
line being run by the Geographer, and the residue in six half-yearly in- 
stallments with interest, in the mean time. The Comp'y to lay of the terri- 
tory in townships of six miles square, The Comp'y to have two sections 
for religion and education gratis, also two townships for the purposes of 
an university on the same terms, three sections in each township to be 
reserv'd for the future disposition of Congress. I understand this Com- 
pany mean to settle this country very thick and without delay; of course 
the adjacent lands will become very valuable; they send forward a number 
of families this fall ; a reinforcement in the spring and a very considerable 
number fall come twelvemonth; the funds of the Comp'y were only a 
Million when they made the contract : since which they has [sic] increased 
in an amazing degree: so that there is not the least doubt but they will 
perform their part of the contract in all it's parts : and as their objects are 
actual settlement and defense, there is every reason to conclude it will 
be of the greatest advantage to that country : from the great number of 
inhabitants in the Eastern States, and in the Jerseys, I should not be 
surprised to see them in a very few years extend themselves by additional 
purchases quite to the Mississippi, and thereby form a complcat barrier 
for our State, at the same [time] greatly validating the lands on the 
Virginia side of the Ohio: 8 .... 

A Comm'ee is appointed to draught an Ordnance for the sale of the 
lands between the Scioto and Great Miami, on the principles of in- 
discriminate location nearly: and if the Southern States attend I appre- 
hend it can be carried; this however will not bring any large quantity to 
markets as after deducting the claims of the Virga. off's and soldiers, 
and the Continental bounties the residue will not be very considerable : * 

Mr. Adams has not done anything at the Court of G. Brittain : he 
has requested his recall in very pointed terms: Who will be elected to 
succeed him, or whether Congress will send any body, is more than I 
can tell: at present they seem much divided on the subject: * The Mis- 
sissippi is where you left it ; i. c. nothing has been done : Mr. Jay has in 

8 See the Journals, July 10, 14, 17, 20, 23, 27 ; also nos. 606-609, 705, 707, ante. 
4 Sec no. 707, note 5, ante. Cf. the Journals, July 17, 1788. 
* See no. 702, 707, ante, 716, 724, 744, 749, post. 



August, 1787 633 

one of his late letters, decidedly said he would do nothing more with't 
the farther direction of Congress. 6 I therefore think we are safe for the 
present. 

P. S 



712. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates. 1 
<-.. New York Augt. 9th 1787. 

By a Resolution of Novr. 4th 1777, a Copy of which I have the honor 
to enclose, The Thanks of Congress, in their own name, and in behalf 
of the Inhabitants of the united States, were ordered to be presented to 
you. It was farther ordered that a Medal of Gold should be struck, under 
the direction of the Board of Treasury, in commemoration of that great 
Event when an Army of six thousand Men under Lieut't Genl. Burgoyne 
surrendered themselves to you Sir upon Terms honorable and advan- 
tageous to these States. That Medal, Sir has [been] executed, and was 
lately put into my Hands to be presented to you agreeably to the [afore- 
said] Resolution. You will herewith receive it, and I do in the name 
and by the Authority of the United States present you with the same, 
[and am] happy in the Circumstance that my public Duty coincides so 
perfectly with my private Sentiments, and pleased that the Memory of 
an Event, so glorious to you Sir, and so beneficial to your Country will 
thus be preserved to the latest Generations. 2 

With the sincerest Wishes that you may long live to bear that well 
earned mark of honorable Service and of public Gratitude, and every 
Sentiment of personal Respect and Esteem 

I have the honor to be Sir 

Your most obedient and very humble Servant. 

Ar. St. Clair 

President of Congress 

6 For the status of the Mississippi question since Monroe's departure see nos. 562, 
590, 604, 608, 614, 636, 639, 643, 645, 647, 651, 652, 661, 697, ante. On May 9 Jay had asked 
for express instructions on the subject, and a committee to whom the letter was referred, 
May 11 (see also the motions May 11), made a report July 4. Meanwhile, on May 12, 
Gardoqui had requested of Jay " whatever communications may be in your power relative 
to the negotiation ", and Jay had replied that he would lay the letter before Congress, " on 
whom the further progress of our business now wholly depends ". This he did in a letter 
of the same day to Congress (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 255). It is probably 
the expression in the letter to Gardoqui to which Grayson alludes. 

[712]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 8125 (addressed, "The Hon'ble Majr. Genl. 
Gates with a small Box containing a Gold Medal recommended to the particular care of 
the Post Master at Alexandria Free Ar. St. Clair"; endorsed, "Received Sunday 26: 
August, 1787, at Travellers Rest") ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 324. 
2 Jefferson wrote to Jay Feb. 14 that sundry medals which Congress had au- 
thorized to be executed in Paris would presently be forwarded by William Short, his 
secretary (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 40; letter laid before Congress May 3). A 
letter from Short Mar. 21, with the medal for General Greene, and one of May 4, with that 
for General Gates, together with other medals, were laid before Congress July 6. A re- 
port on the medals by Jay, dated July 11, was read in Congress July 13, and a further 
report on the subject was made July 27. There are several minor variations between the 
two texts cited ; for instance, the words here bracketed are not in the letter sent. See also 
no. 7 l 3, post. 



634 Continental Congress 

713. The President of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York August 9th 1787. 
Sir, 

In pursuance of a Resolution of Congress of October 29th 1781 a 
Copy of which I have the honor to enclose, a Golden Medal, emblematic 
of the Battle near the Eutaw Spring, and the Victory there obtained 
over a superior number of the British Troops through the wise, decisive, 
and magnanimous conduct of the late Major General Greene has been 
compleated, and put into my hands to be presented. 2 It is much to be 
regretted and I do most sincerely regret, that General Greene did not 
survive, to receive this farther testimony of the sense his Country had 
of his services, particularly of the gallant action at the Eutaw — The 
Memory of it however will be thereby long preserved, and it cannot fail 
to be very acceptable to his Family; and when the Story is related to his 
Children, and the design of the Medal explained to them, as it will be. 
whilst their veneration for their Father 8 is encreased, a sense of Gratitude 
and Affection for their Country, thus careful to record his Glory, must 
be raised in their tender Minds, and the generous resolution instantly 
formed to step forward in its service, in the same honorable Path should 
it ever be necessary, with the honest hope of meriting like Rewards — To 
you sir as one of the Executors of the General and the nearest, I commit 
the Medal — and am with great personal respect — 
Sir 

Your most obedient and very humble Servant 
Ar. St. Clair 

President of Congress 
Coll. Jere. Wadsworth * 

[713] * Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 723; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 325. 

2 See no. 712, ante. On Oct. 26 Congress ordered that one of the copper medals 
struck in honor of General Greene be transmitted " to each of the said general's aids who 
acted during his command in the southern department ". 

8 The Letter-Book copy has " their Fathers Memory ". 

* Following is Wadsworth's reply (Conn. Hist. Soc., Wadsworth Papers, retained 
copy) : 

" Hartford August 14th 1787. 
" Sir, By yesterdays Post I was honored with your Excellencys letter of the 9th instant 
enclosing an Act of Congress of the 29th of October 1788 [1781], with the Golden Medal 
therein directed to be presented to Major Gen Greene. I this day delivered the Medal to 
Mrs. Greene. She directed me to present her most respectfull Compliments to your Excel- 
lency and joins me in the sincerest thanks for Your very Polite letter which accompanied 
the Medal. I have the honor to be with the greatest Personal respect and Esteem 

Your Excell'y most obd Hum Servant " 



August, 1J87 635 

714. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

August 10th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed a 
state of the representation in Congress for the month of July. By this 
and the former statements Your Excellency will see that since the first 
monday in November last the United States have not been represented 
more than three days by 10 States, thirty days by 9 states, and forty 
days by 7 and 8 States. I submit this to the consideration of Your 
Excellency, And have the honor to be with greatest respect 

715. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York, Augt. 11, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I am favored with yours of the 3d and 8th Inst't the whole delegation 
have received letters from Mr. Anderson similar to that which he wrote 
you. I believe Mr. Maurey has been equally extencive in his applications. 
I will mention to our Colleagues your suggestion of giving the names 
and wishes to those Gentlemen to Mr. Jay. I return you Mr. Fitch's letter 
with a note of the Secretary upon it, which furnishes a satisfactory 
answer. 2 

I received a letter from Major Turner 3 upon the subject of the Secre- 
tariship, previous to which I had turned my views for that appointment, 
upon a Worthy Man, Major Sergeant — of this I informed the said 
Turner — he has again written me that he will not stand in competition 
with his friend Sergeant, and will take a chance for a Seat on the Bench — 
my ideas of his fitness for such an office are favorable, and it will give 
me pleasure to be instrumental in placing him there, when these appoint- 
ments, or any other business will be done, I know not. the departure of 
No. Carolina 4 and Georgia left us only 7 States, and the day before 
yesterday we lost another in the decampment of Doctor Holton, whose 
declining State of health obliged him to retrograde, the Doctor is tolerably 
free from localities, and I am sorry to lose him : 5 but on account of the 
breaking up of congress, we have but little to regret, unless there had 
been an early prospect of raising the number of States above 7, for with 

[714PN. C. Hist. Cotnm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 127 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 175 ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 756. 
[715] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. (part). 

2 Probably Richard Anderson, Fontaine Maury, and John Fitch. 

3 Probably Major George Turner. Rufus King also appears to have recommended 
Winthrop Sargent for the office of secretary of the Northwest Territory but at the same 
time to have mentioned Turner for some appointment in the territorial government. See 
nos. 716, 723, post. The salaries of the governor, secretary, and judges were fixed Oct. 2 
and 3 ; on Oct. 5 Arthur St. Clair was elected governor and Winthrop Sargent secretary ; 
on Oct. 16 Samuel Holden Parsons, John Armstrong, jr., and James Mitchel Varnum 
were elected judges. On Oct. 20 the secretary of Congress was instructed to prepare the 
forms of commissions, the secretary's report was referred to a committee Oct. 22, and on 
Oct. 23 the forms were adopted. See nos. 716, 723, 741, post. 

4 See nos. 718, 719, 720, post. 

5 Cf. no. 716, post. 

47 



$84 Continental Congress 

that numl>er, I think, there will never be a good act passed, all the indian 
affairs still remain to be acted upon, and many other things of great 
consequence, the President has been requested to write to the States 
unrepresented, pressing upon them the objects which require the attendance 
of their delegations, and urging them to come forward, 6 amongst those 
objects is that of the report of the convention, which, it is supposed, is 
now in the state of parturition, this bantling must receive the blessing 
of Congress this session, or, I fear, it will expire before the new one 
will assemble ; 7 every experiment has its critical stages which must be 
taken as they occur, or the whole will fail, the peoples expectations are 
rising with the progress of this work, but will desert it. should it remain 
long with Congress 

716. Nathan Dane to Rufus King. 1 

New York Augt. 12, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I shall be fully agreed on appointing Major Sargeant Secretary, etc. 
but a number of respectable characters are going into the Western Country 
from the Eastern states, among which, I think, some proper characters 
for Judges will be found. I am but very little acquainted with Major 
Turner, but I can in this, and on other occasions place confidence in your 
opinion. I think it is probable, that no settlements will be made in that 
Country this fall, and, therefore, Congress will for sometime delay the 
appointment of Officers, in the mean time several gentlemen may be 
presented for the vacant offices, and we may consider the characters, and 
direct the elections as may appear to be most politic and prudent. 2 much 
will depend on the directions given to the first settlements in my opinion, 
and as the Eastern states for the sake of doing away the temporary 
governments, etc. established in 1784, and for establishing some order 
in that Country, gave up as much as could be reasonably expected, I think 
it will be just and proper in them to establish as far as they can con- 
sistently, Eastern politics in it, especially in the state adjoining Pennsyl- 
vania, you are informed, I presume, of the terms of the Ohio contract, 
all circumstances considered 1 think they are advantageous to the public. 

Dr. Holten left this place last Friday to return to Massachusetts, which 
broke up Congress. I wished him very much to have postpone[d] his Jour- 
ney, but we could not prevail upon him to do it. indeed he was too unwell a 
man to be here and attend to business; I imagine it will be with great 
difficulty that he can reach home. I am very sorry he was obliged t< 
leave Congress not only as it leaves the State unrepresented but as it 
has deprived me of an agreeable Colleague, the Dr. you know is not a 
man able to do a great deal of business, but he is a polite agreeable man. 
and a man of sound good politics. 3 We shall probably have a Con^: 

6 President St. Qair's circular letter. Aug. 13, is no. 717, post. 

1 Cf. no. 721, post. 

[716]' N. Y. Hist. Soc., King Papers (original) : Life of King, I. 256. 

2 See no. 715. ante. 
8 Cf. no. 715, ante. 



August, 1/8/ 637 

to-morrow — and I believe for the first time not one New England State 
upon the floor. I wish you would inform me as soon as you conveniently 
can, what prospect there is of our States being represented and when. It 
depends entirely on your or Mr. Gorham's taking a seat in Congress. 
There is no prospect of Dr. Holten's returning. If neither of you can 
attend for 4 or 5 weeks to come, I think it will be best for me in the inter- 
mediate time to make a short visit to Mass., as my private concerns now 
make it almost absolutely necessary I should. I am now the only member 
in Congress from the 4 Eastern states, there are now before Congress 
several objects respecting Indian affairs, etc. respecting Mr. Adams' return 
to America, and directing in what manner the affairs of our legation at 
the Court of London shall be conducted after his return,* the requisition, 
etc., which we never ought to leave entirely to the Southern and Middle 
States. It is evidently the object of several gentlemen to put the affairs 
of our Legation at London into the hands of Mr. Jefferson, this is a 
thing we can by no means agree to. as to other foreign matters we have 
pretty well dispatched them for the present. Instructions are gone to Mr. 
Jefferson respecting the Consulate, and to Mr. Adams respecting the in- 
fractions of the treaty as reported by Mr. Jay nearly. 5 the necessary 
measures respecting the Morocco treaty have been taken; proper letters 
to the Empire and the King of Spain etc. have been sent, some measures 
relative to our house at the Hag[u]e, prisoners at Airs, etc. 6 

We have allowed depreciation to the marine as reported by the board T — 
and finally settled D. Campbell's affairs and allowed him the pay of a 
D quarter master, 8 we have limited the time for bringing claims against 
the union, 9 etc. etc. measures not deserving any particular notice. 

Bruce has come forward with Jackson's accounts, and in order to Get 
the board of Treasury to pay a part of the balance due to him which he says 
is about 10,000 Dollars, Massa. having paid £4,000 Law. Money, this is 
mortifying after so much was promised on the part of the State toward 
supporting the troops. I am not yet informed what is like to be done. 

4 See nos. 702, 707, 711, ante, 724, 744, 749, post. 

5 Action respecting the consular convention was taken July 27, by the adoption of 
a report of the secretary for foreign affairs (dated May 10) on Jefferson's letter of Jan. 9 
(Dipl. Corr. JJ. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 18). See Jay to Jefferson Oct. 24 {ibid., p. 81). The 
instructions to Adams were adopted July 20. See Jay to Adams July 31 {ibid., p. 756). 
Respecting the treaty see nos. 590, 595, 634, 645, 688, ante. Respecting the consular con- 
vention see no. 379, note 5, ante, and no. 892, post. 

6 For the ratification of the treaty with Morocco, the letter to the emperor of 
Morocco, that to the King of Spain, and action relative to the captives at Algiers, see the 
Journals, July 18, 23, and no. 707, ante. Concerning a proposed confederacy against the 
Barbary powers see the Journals, July 27, Aug. 2; also no. 759, post. For action respect- 
ing the house of the United States at the Hague see the Journals, July 6, II, 24. The letter 
of C. W. F. Dumas of Nov. 17, 1786, on which Jay's report is predicated, appears to be 
missing. See Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 540; also the editorial note on the letters 
of Dumas, in the Journals, July 6. 

7 See the Journals, Mar. 23, Apr. 24, May 8, July 7, 12, Aug. 1. 

8 Concerning the claims of Donald Campbell see the Journals, Apr. 19, July 30, 31, 
Oct. 11. 

9 See the Journals, July 23. Secretary Thomson transmitted the act of July 23 
to the states July 25, requesting that it be published, " that all the Citizens of your state 
whom it concerns may have notice thereof . In a circular letter of July 31 he made a 
correction (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 125; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 171, 173; N. C. 
State Recs., XX. 751, 755). Cf. nos. 776, 778, post. 



638 Continental Congress 

717. The President of Congress to Certain States. 1 

New York [August 13 1787.] 

The want of a due Representation in Congress, so frequently as it has 
happened, and for so great a length of time together, has very greatly 
embarrased the affairs of the Union, and given much disatisfaction to 
the States which generally keep their Representations up, as well as disgust 
to the Members who attend from those States. It has very often been com- 
plained of, and the States not Represented pressed to send their Delegates 
forward : too often, I am sorry to be obliged to observe Sir, with very 
little Effect altho' it must be obvious that, independent of the great national 
concerns which thereby often suffer an inconvenient at least, if not a 
disgraceful delay, their own particular Interests run some risque from 
public measures being adopted without the aid of their counsels. 

What Sir, must the Nations of the World think of us when they shall 
be informed that we have appointed an Assembly and invested it with 
the sole and exclusive power of Peace and War, and the management of 
all National concerns, and during the course of, almost, a whole year, it 
has not been capable, except for a few days, for want of a sufficient 
number of Members, to attend to these matters. Since the first Monday 
in Novr. last to this time there has been a Representation of Nine States, 
only thirty days; and ten States, only three Days. And as the Repre- 
sentation of most of the States has consisted of only two Persons, no 
great business could be done without the Unanimous consent of every 
individual Member. 

We are now Sir reduced to six! altho' matters of the highest importance 
are pressing for a decission, and cannot be long delayed without com- 
mitting the Dignity of the Government, and exposing the Peace and Safety 
of several of the States. Besides Sir, the National Convention, which 
the People look up to for much good, will soon rise, and it appears to be 
of great consequence that, when their Report comes under the consideration 
of Congress, it should be a full Congress, and the important Bussiness 
which will be laid before them meet with no unnecessary Delay. 

The Secretary wrote not long ago to the Unrepresented States; but 
no Effect has yet appeared to follow from it. I must therefore again 
repeat the request, and in the most pressing terms, that your Excellency 
will use every means in your power to hasten forward the Delegates from 
your State. 2 

[717]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. (to Maryland) ; ibid., Gratz Coll., If. O. 
C. (to Connecticut); Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 326; Doc. Hist, 
of the Constitution, IV. 248; St. Clair Papers. I. 603. The letter was addressed to the 
governors of Georgia, Maryland, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire. 
2 For responses see the Journals, Sept. 20, 24. 



August, 1787 639 

718. Benjamin Hawkins to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

Philadelphia 14th August 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I shall sail this day for North Carolina I arrived here a few days 
past, having had a fever for some days with Mr. Blount, he continues in 
Convention. We have received a letter from Mr. Ashe informing us of 
his sailing on the 4th instant from our Country for New- York. We 
know not who is to be his Colleague. I would return to New- York with 
pleasure if my want of money was not an indispensable objection. 

It is of the first importance that our State be represented when the 
Convention make their report to Congress. And I believe Mr. Burton 
and Ashe promised each other to be there then. But if any unforeseen 
accident should frustrate their intention, it follows that some others of 
the delegation must attend. And I shall put my self in readiness as early 
as possible, provided it is necessary for me to return. 

Since writing the foregoing Mr. Blount has a letter from Colo. Ashe 
of the 12 from New- York, informing that Colo. Burton, was to come by 
land. 2 

719. John Baptiste Ashe to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New York 16th August, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have the honor this day to receive your Excellency's favour of the 
nth of July, inclosing a receipt of Mr. Robert Stewart's to Mr. Whitaker 
for 110,104 lbs. of Tobacco, which I shall pay every necessary attention 
to, 2 also, a Copy of your letter of the 15th of Jan'y last, to the Delegation, 
requiring their attention, towards procuring the Muster Rolls of the line 
of our State, or duplicates of them, and forwarding of them to you ; rest 
assured Sir, in this, we have not been inattentive, early in March we 
procured an Order of Congress directing the Secretary at War to furnish 
us with Duplicates but the Paymaster with his principal Clerk, going 
shortly after to Virginia on public business, and who has not yet returned 
has been the cause (and is yet) of our not obtaining them, he is hourly 
expected, when the Secretary promises them without delay. 3 

Col. Blount and myself brought forward a Resolution, purporting 
Congress's disavowal of such part of the Hopewell Treaty as ceded 

[718PN. C. Hist. Coram., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XX. 761. 

2 See nos. 694, 695, ante, 719, 720, post. On Aug. 13 Timothy Bloodworth trans- 
mitted his resignation to Governor Caswell in the following terms : " I beg leave to 
acquaint You that some perticular reasons have induc'd me to decline serving as a Dele- 
gate, in the Congress of the United- States, and hope Your Excellency will consider this 
as my resignation of that appointment." N. C. Hist. Conim., Governor's Papers; N. C. 
State Recs., XX. 757. 

[719] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy) ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 761. 

2 Caswell's letter of July 1 1 is ibid., p. 737 ; the enclosure is at p. 728. See also ibid., 
pp. 724, 726. 

8 See no. 584, note 2, ante. 



640 Continental Congress 

certain Territory within the limits of the State to the Indians as hunting 
grounds, and stated our Claim to the same, which statement was thought 
insufficient; and as the Boundary of a State was of a very weighty and 
consequential nature, we concluded it best to let the business rest there, 
until we could procure every document necessary to support our Claim, 4 
to which end I will be Obliged to your Excellency to procure ( from among 
the old Council papers where I presume it was lodged) and send forward, 
those Temporary lines, intended and Confirmed by the Commissioners 
appointed by the Legislatures of North and South Carolina, Agreeable 
to the Order of the late King George the 2nd. which are the lines 
peremptorily claimed in our bill of rights as our Southern Boundary, and 
from which we cannot varie ; Congress by this Treaty and the application 
of North Carolina must be thrown under some embarrassment, for its 
Obvious they cannot ratify an Act so flagrantly abusive in its consequences, 
if enforced, also in express words contrary to the Confederation, and 
our Bill of rights, and to disavow a Compact or part of a Compact e n t er ed 
into by their Servants, they may consider as impolitic and improper. I 
will further trouble your Excellency, with sending forward to the Dele- 
gation a Resolution of the last Assemblies expressive of their Opinion 
of the Indian Treaty, and giving some direction to their Delegates. 6 I 
am and have been here alone for some time, have expected Mr. Burton 
to arrive every hour, for three weeks past, I now much despair of his 
coming on at all, shou'd he not Mr. Blount promises me he will return at 
the rising of the Convention, when we hope to have a very full Congress," 



720. William Blount to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

Philadelphia Monday August 20th, 1787. 
Sir, 

In a Letter from Newyork I informed your Excellency of my reasons 
for leaving the Convention and returning to that place with Mr. Hawkins 
to represent the State in Congress. 2 .... 

Mr. Ashe has arrived at Newyork and on Thursday last had no Col- 
league but from his Letter to me he daily expects Mr. Burton 3 and I 
hope he will not be disappointed for if he should remain without a Col- 

* The motion of the North Carolina delegates was on Apr. 25. See no. 375, note 3. 
ante ; cf. nos. 384, 304, 471, 508, 640, ante. 

5 See no. 508, note 5, ante. 

•See no. 720, post. Burton attended Sept. 13. John Armstrong, writing from 
Carlisle Aug. 16 to William Irvine, indulged in some speculations respecting the results of 
the Federal Convention. "Whatever their system may be ", he remarked, ". . . . in my 
private opinion, it ought not to be scaned with an eye too critical, but with great candor 
and many allowances, nor should cold water be poured upon it. . . . because an indifferent 
one is better than none." Hist. Magazine, VIII. 18. 

[720] l N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. Slate Recs.. XX. 764; Farrand, 
Records of the Federal Convention. III. 71. 

2 See no. 604, ante. 

• Sec nos. 718, 719, ante. 



August, 1787 641 

league untill the Convention sends forward their work to Congress I 
shall consider it my duty and act accordingly disagreeable and inconvenient 
as it may be to return to Newyork and join him in representing the State 
to the End that North Carolina may do her duty in Congress in recom- 
mending to the respective States whatever may be recommended by the 
Convention. 

Your Excellency is not now to be informed that I am not at Liberty to 
explain the Particulars of the Mode of Government that the Convention 
have in Contemplation but I will venture to assure you that it will be such 
a Form of Government as I believe will be readily adopted by the several 
States because I believe it will be such as will be their respective Interests 
to adopt. 

721. Richard Henry Lee to Richard Lee ( ?). x 

New York, August 22d, 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 You will see all the news that we have, retailed in the public 
papers, so that I need not trouble you with that. For four or 5 weeks after 
my first arrival here we were fully employed with business in Congress, 
for a few days past a cessation has taken place by the sickness of some 
members, the inattention of others, and by some going to the Convention. 
In a few days we expect 8 or 9 States. The report of the Convention is 
expected in Congress about a fortnight hence, and great are the public 
expectations concerning it. 'Tis expected that a federal Legislature of 
3 branches will be recommended, with independent powers, and supreme 
for external matters, revenue and Commerce, With an Executive well 
toned and of reasonable duration. 

722. Abraham Yates, jr., to Jeremiah van Rensselaer and 
Henry Acthandt. 1 

New york 29 August 1787. 
Gent., 

.... In Respect to Congress this is now about a fort night there has 
not been Seven States. I am somtimes not without My suspitions (you 
know I am a Suspitious Man) that it may give waith to the Measures of 
the Convention. Mr. King was here the begining of the Week before 
last told me the Convention would he supposed Report by the first of 
September, last Week it was reported (in the Congress Room) that a 
Misunderstanding had happe'd In this Convention, that they were now so 

[721 J 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 723; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 432. 

2 Some part of this letter pertains to Lee's account for attendance in Congress, 
remittance for which was to be made through his correspondent. There is little doubt that 
this letter is to Richard Lee. See the letter to him Sept. 13, ibid., p. 436, and no. 726, post. 
On Sept. 9 Edmund Randolph, then at Philadelphia, transmitted to the lieutenant governor 
a " letter and statement " from Richard Henry Lee, which probably pertained to his ac- 
count for attendance (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers). Lee's letter and statement have 
not been located. 

[722] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed, "Jeremiah Van Renselaer 
and Henry Acthandt Esqrs. Albany"). 



642 Continental Congress 

far from agreeing that it would be a doubt whether they would agree in 
time so as that this Congress can take up the Matter — Since I have been 
informed that there is an additional Difficulty Ariseing from the Massa- 
chusets Members, all along four have attended, one of the four 2 (I 
Suppose a high flier) is gone home, the Others Refusing to agree to what 
was Intended to be reportd. 

These are Information I have Picked up from the Members of Con- 
gress and I begin to Suspect that the Secrecy has a Stronger operation 
upon me (my Sentiments being so well known) as upon others that 
Differ, upon the whole I belive You had better not make this public as 
coming from me but to keep it among the frnds it may be good informa- 
tion to Yates and Lansing. 



723. William Grayson to James Madison. 1 

N. York Augt. 31st, 1787. 
D'r Sir, 

Inclosed is a stragling letter which has found it's way to this place- : 
I have recieved your favor and shall pay every attention to the case of 
Majr. Turner: his chance with respect to the Secretaryship is absolutely 
desperate; he must therefore be nominated for a Judges seat: this he has 
agreed to himself as appears by a letter to Mr. Carrington. 2 

Judge Symms of New Jersey yesterday made an application for all that 
tract of country lying between the Great and little Miami the East and 
West line and the Ohio supposed about two millions of acres, on the same 
terms with the Eastern Ohio Comp'y. his application has met with the 
intire approbation of the Members present : and there is no doubt but as 
soon ("as] there is a Congress that this contract will be closed.' 

A Comm'ee is appointed to draught an Ordnance for indiscriminate 
locations, but a difficulty has occurred which I fear will destroy the whole 
affair; the Comm'ee don't know what the deficiency is on the Cumber- 
land river and have figured to their timorous and suspicious imaginations 
that the Virginia officers and soldiers mean to take eight or ten million 
of acres, between the Scioto and Miami. The Comm'ee also contend that 
the State of Virga. should make proof of the deficiency of good lands on 
the Cumberland; should ascertain the quantity they want or have a rigfal 
to on the Northern side of the Ohio; and should then take that quantity 
in one Body. I wish you would speak to our Governor on the subject. 
Perhaps it may be in his power shortly to obtain information of the 
quantity claimed by the Officers and Soldiers on the other side of the 

2 Caleb Strong. 
[723] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
II. 4.39 (extract). 

2 See nos. 715, 716, ante. 

* Symmes's proposition, dated Aug. 29, was read in Conpreu Sept 20 (there had 
been no quorum of Congress since Aug. 9). See further the journals, Sept. 81. O' 
On the latter date a committee reported in favor of the proposition, and it was referred to 
the board of treasury to take order. Cf. no. 707. ante, and nos. 724, 726, 747, 748, post. 



September, 1787 643 

Ohio: If this fact was known other difficulties might perhaps be got over 
as I apprehend it is not very considerable. 4 .... 

NB. The Missisippi is in a State of absolute dormification. 5 

724. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams. 1 

New York September the 5th, 1787. 

.... I was appointed to that Assembly [the Federal Convention], 2 
but being a Member of Congress where the plan of Convention must be 
approved, there appeared an inconsistency for Members of the former to 
have Session with the latter, and so pass judgment at New York upon 
their opinion at Philadelphia. 3 I therefore declined going to Convention 
and came here; where we lately have contracted for the sale of six mil- 
lions of Acres on the N. W. side of Ohio in the ceded territory, for 
lessening the domestic debt. And now another offer is made for two 
millions more. I hope we shall at least be able to extinguish the domestic 
debt created by the late war, which is by far the greatest part of the debt. 4 
So many of our Members have lately gone from hence to the Convention, 
that we have had but five States in Congress for a month past, which has 
prevented any determination on your application to return. It seems at 
present very doubtful whether there will be any Resident appointed to the 
Court where you are — Some being for a Minister, some for a Charge, and 
some for neither but a Consul only. How it will terminate can scarcely be 
conjectured yet. 5 .... 

* See the Journals, Apr. 26, May 2, July 30, and nos. 707, 711, ante. Cf. nos. 747, 
748, 759, Post. 

5 See no. 711, note 6, ante. On Aug. 28 Gardoqui wrote to Jay to remark upon the 
numerous manifestations of hostility toward Spain which had of late appeared in American 
newspapers, and particularly to transmit an issue of the Charleston Gazette containing a 
letter to that minister from Lieut. John Sullivan, one of the leaders in the mutiny of 
Pennsylvania troops in June, 1783. Cf. no. 432, ante. The letter of Sullivan, which is 
dated " State of Georgia, Frontier of the Creek Nation, March 1, 1787 ", broadly inti- 
mates his desire to be employed by Spain in resistance to the aggression against Spain 
then seething throughout the west. On Aug. 31 Jay transmitted the letters to Congress, 
but they were not read until Sept. 20. For proceedings on the matter see further the 
Journals, Oct. 4, 8, 12, 13. On Nov. 9 Jay came into possession of another letter of Sul- 
livan, written from Charleston Sept. 24 and addressed to Major William Brown. In that 
letter Sullivan states that he purposes " to return immediately to the State of Franklin ", 
and intimates that he is particularly concerned in a plan for an attack on New Orleans. As 
Congress was not in session for want of a quorum, Jay turned the letter over to the secre- 
tary at war and transmitted a copy of it to Gardoqui, Nov. 1. (These letters are in 
Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 255-263.) Secretary Knox made a report on the 
letter Jan. 25, 1788 (read in Congress Feb. 1). On July 15 a report by Lieut. John Arm- 
strong, who, in consequence of instructions from Secretary Knox to General Harmar, had 
made an investigation of Sullivan's activities, was laid before Congress, whereupon Jay 
was instructed to communicate to the minister of Spain such parts of the correspondence 
as he should judge proper. This was done Sept. 5 (ibid., pp. 269-274). Cf. Williams, Lost 
State of Franklin, pp. 134, 231. 

[724] 1 Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 433 (from the original in the Adams Papers) ; Adams's 
Works, IX. 553. 

2 Lee had made some remarks upon the supposed character of the proposed 
constitution. 

3 Cf. no. 753, post. 

4 See no. 723, note 3, ante. 

5 See nos. 701-707, 711, 716, ante, and the Journals, Apr. 11, July 23, 26, Aug. 1, Oct. 
5 ; cf. nos. 744, 749, post. 



644 Continental Congress 

72$. William Harrison to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

Charles County, Septr. 7th, 1787. 
Sir, 

1 now do myself the honor to acknowledge the reciept of your letter of 
the 1 6th July, and 27th ultmo. 

Be assured, Sir, that it gives me pain to hear of the embarrassed situa- 
tion of Congress, owing to a Want of representation, more especially as 
Maryland is one of the States unrepresented. A sense of my duty would 
have long ago carried me to Congress, had my State of Health admitted. 
But I was forced to absent myself from the Senate, at the Spring Ses- 
sion, on acco't of indisposition, of which I have not yet recovered. This 
being the reason of my non-attendance, I have thought proper to trouble 
your Excellency with it, that a neglect of duty may not be imputed to me. 

726. Richard Henry Lee to Richard Lee. 1 

X i:\\-Y<>rk Septr. 13, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress is endeavoring to lighten the public burthens by sell- 
ing the federal lands beyond the Ohio to pay the domestic debt which forms 
so great a part of our whole debt. We have already contracted for the 
sale of 6 millions of Acres, and a proposition is now on the Table to pur- 
chase three millions more. We hear a talk of a plan forming to pur- 
chase 20 Millions more. These lands will all be sold for discharging 
the principal of the debt, and the public securities paid in by instalment >. 
These bargains once made will sink in season a large part of the 
debt. 2 .... 

727. Jonathan Sturges to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Fairfield Septr. 17th. 1787. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the 13th Inst't was delivered to me on Friday Evening 
last, by my Son, immediately on his Return from New Haven, and on 
Saturday Morning, I met with Colo. Abel, on his Way to Norwalk, and 
requested him, to wait on Colo. Fitch, to receive what Money he might 
have in Hand, belonging to the State, Colo. Abel has this Day infoimed 
that Colo. Fitch has none and the Prospect of receiving any in Season is 
very uncertain Colo. Abel has none and affords me no reas< enable < irounds 
to expect a Seasonable Supply from him. 

I shall hold myself in Readiness to proceed to Congress as soon as I can 
obtain a sufficiency of Money to defray my Expenses 

[725]! Hist. Soc. of l'a.. Ktting Coll., V. 77. 

L7a6] l N. Y. Tub. Lib.. Misc. MSS., Lee; Letters (ed. Hallaxb). 11. 4 .v> (addressed, 
" Richard Lee esquire of Lee Hall in Westmoreland County Virginia"). 
2 See nos. 696, 698, 701, 707, 7". 7*3> ontr. 7 48, 73ft post. 
[727] » Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 



September, 1/8/ 645 

728. Benjamin Hawkins to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell). 1 

n <-,. Warren the 17th Septr. 1787. 

Having performed my tour of service in Congress for the present 
Foederal Year and returned to the State: I request the favour of your 
Excellency to send me by the bearer Mr. John Seagrove a Warrant on 
the Treasury for my monthly allowance. I was six months in Congress, 
and I am informed that there is allowed by the Legislature eight months 
pay for a tour including the time of traveling to and from Congress. I 
in fact was that period from home owing principally to a Tedious winter 
journey and a circuitous return which I was necessitated to make by water 
for want of the means to enable me to travel directly to Warren. 

We have not any thing new in this quarter. 

I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you at Tarborough. 

729. Stephen Mix Mitchell to William Samuel Johnson. 1 

, , ~ . Wethersfield Sepr. 18, 1787. 

My Dear Sir, r 

Your favor of the 6th of July I must with gratitude acknowledge the 
Receit of ; soon after, I wrote you a long letter upon Politicks etc. .which 
I sent to the post office, this would have discovered my weakness to you 
in good earnest, but O fortunate ! before the mail was closed at Hartford, 
an acct. of your Recess from Convention and arrival at Hartford, came 
to hand, when I sent to the Office and remanded my Letter. 

This Evening I am again honor'd by your favor of the 10th Inst., In 
which you urge my speedy Attendance at Congress, where I suppose you 
now are and hope you have found Messrs. Cook and Sturgis attending. 2 

I was to have proceeded with Col. Cook to N'w York, but the want of 
Supplies from the Treasury prevented. At present 'tis extremely difficult 
to leave my family; Mrs. Mitchell's Health and Situation is such, that 
Absence from her would savor of Inattention, if not of Cruelty; and the 
necessary Supplies of money are still wanting. 

Our good Govr. called on me last week, as he was journeying to Com- 
mencement, when he engaged to use his Endeavors to prevail on mr. J. 
Hilhouse to take a Tour to N'w York, on his return I found him unsuc- 
cessful ; yet to my great Releif he told me he had wrote Mr. Sturgis to join 
Col. Cook if possible, but had not receivd his Answer. 

I am not insensible of the propriety of a full Representation in Con- 
gress, when the momentous Business you mention, shall be under Con- 
sideration ; Yet do not wish to be one of the number who should then be 
attending; My Opposition to Conventions in General, and particularly 
to the Resolve recommending the present one ; would ever render any Op- 

[728] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Rccs., XX. 775. 

[729] x Conn. Hist. Soc, Johnson Papers, no. 127. 

2 Johnson was again in attendance at Congress on Thursday, Sept. 20, when the 
report of the Federal Convention was presented. His diary entry for that day is : " Fair 
Blustrng In Congress". For the 21st and 22d his entry is "In Congress"; for the 23d, 
" Sund'y St. Pauls ". 



646 Continental Congress 

position made by me to any of the proceedings or Recommendations of 
that honorable body, suspected. — had I been silent on that Occasion, any 
Objection from me to any part of the System, would have had more 
weight, on this Account, I think, I am a very exceptionable Member at 
this time. 

Tis my wish, that you may have agreed and concluded on such Mea- 
sures, as will conduce to the general Welfare and Establishment of our 
Nation, and that Congress and the people may acquiese therein. 

The Governor has made such Arrangements relative to a Represent.! 
tion from this State, that to us who are here, it seems unnecessary for me 
to think of attending. He expects you will attend untill the End of y'r 
year, as I suppose you are informed by Letter from him 

730. Roger Alden, Statement. 1 

New York Sept. 21st, 1787. 
The budget was opened Yesterday and the important secret is now ex- 
posed to public view — and I hope it will be approved by every individual. 
I find it meets with the approbation of many of those ( ientlcnien of whose 
opinion and for whose judgment I have the highest respec t , but where 
we may expect opposition is easy to be conjectured. I can readily make 
three classes — Great Men of our own, who will loose their consequence, 
little great Men, conscious of their own talents, who know they have not 
Abilities to become really great Men — and all those who are really enemies 
to the happiness of the Country or have exposed themselves by their 
crimes, Idleness and wickedness to the just Laws of society. 1 

731. William Bingham to Thomas FttzSimons.' 

New York Septr. 21, 1787. 
D'rSir, 

You expressed a Desire of Knowing what reception the Conventional 
Government would meet with in Congress, and whether there was a Pros- 
pect of its passing thro' the necessary Formalities in Congress, previous 
to the Adjournment of our legislature? 

It was yesterday received and read in Congress, and Wednesday 1; 
fixed as the Day for its Consideration. If I had been present, I should 
certainly [not ?] have approved its Postponement to so distant a Day. As 
from Enquiry I find that every State on the Floor of Congress is disposed 
to adopt it, I will endeavor to bring on the Question immediately. I shall 
urge as an Argument the favorable disposition of our assembly, which is 
now in Sessions. I will inform you of the Result as soon as possible 2 

[730] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 207; Doc. Hist, of the Consti- 
tution, IV. 292. 

2 See no. 731, post. It is conjectured that this bit of record was not (U-sipned as a 
letter or a part of a letter, but was only such a memorandum as one might set down in a 
diary. 

[731 J 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

3 The report of the Federal Convention, including the text of the proposed con- 
stitution, is found in the Journals, under Sept. 20. The report was considered Sept. 26, 
27, and 28, and on the latter date it was resolved to transmit it to the several states. See 
nos. 732, 734-739. Post. 



September, 1787 647 

732. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York Sept. 23, 1787. 
My Dear Sir, 

The Gentlemen who have arrived from the Convention inform us that 
you are on the way to join us. least however you may, under a supposition 
that the State of the Delegation is such as to admit of your absence, in- 
dulge yourself in leisurely movements, after the fatiguing time you have 
had, I take this precaution to apprise you that the same schism which 
unfortunately happened in our State in Philadelphia, threatens us here 
also, one of our Colleagues Mr. R. H. Lee is forming propositions for 
essential alterations in the Constitution, which will, in effect, be to oppose 
it. Another, Mr. Grayson, dislikes it, and is, at best for giving it only a 
Silent passage to the States. 2 Mr. H. Lee joins me in opinion that it ought 
to be warmly recommended to ensure its adoption, a lukewarmness in 
Congress will be made a ground of opposition by the unfriendly in the 
States, those who have hitherto wished to bring the conduct of Congress 
into contempt, will in this case be ready to de[c]lare it truly respectable. 

Next Wednesday is fixed for taking under consideration this Business, 
and I ardently wish you could be with us. 3 

The New York faction is rather active in spreading the seeds of opposi- 
tion. This, however, has been expected, and will not make an impression 
so injurious as the same circumstance would in some other states. Colo. 
Hamilton has boldly taken his ground in the public papers and, having 
truth and propriety on his side, it is to be hoped he will stem the torrent of 
folly and iniquity. 

I do not implicitly accede in sentiment to every article of the scheme 
proposed by the convention, but I see not how my utmost wishes are to be 
gratified until I can withdraw from society, so long as I find it necessary 
to combine my strength and interests with others, I must be satisfied to 
make some sacrifices to the general accomodation. 

72>Z- The Secretary of Congress to Walter Livingston. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 
Sepr. 26th, 1787. 
Sir, 

As you inform me that Mr, Banker from his other engagements is 
unable to attend to the business of deciding the controversy between the 
United States and the late contractors for the moving Army, I agree that 
Mr. William Seaton be substituted in his place. 2 

[732] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers: Writings, V. 2; Farrand, Records of 
the Federal Convention, p. 98 ; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 441 ; Doc. 
Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 293. 

2 See no. 731, ante, and nos. 734-739, post. 

3 This letter was addressed to Madison in Philadelphia, but according to the en- 
dorsement was forwarded back to him in New York, where he arrived Sept. 24. See no. 
736, post. 

[733] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 128. 

2 The Letter-Book copy has the address, "William Livingston Esqr.", but the 
letter was evidently to Walter Livingston. See nos. 299, 476, ante. In the Secretary's 



648 Continental Congress 

734. Richard Henry Lee, Proposed Amendments to thi 

Constitution. 1 

[Sept. 27? 28?, 1787.] * 

It having been found from universal experience that the most express 
declarations and reservations are necessary to protect the just rights and 
liberty of mankind from the silent, powerful, and ever active conspiracy 
of those who govern, and it appearing to be the sense of the good people 
of the United States by the various Bills or Declarations of Rights whereon 
the governments of the greater number of the States are founded, that 
such precautions are necessary to restrain and regulate the exercise of 
the great powers given to rulers. In conformity with these principles, and 
from respect for the public sentiment on this subject it is submitted — That 
the new Constitution proposed for the government of the U. States be 
bottomed upon a declaration or Bill of Rights, clearly and precisely stat- 
ing the principles upon which this Social Compact is founded, to wit ; 

That the rights of Conscience in matters of Religion shall not be vio- 
lated. That the freedom of the Press shall be secured. That the trial by 
Jury in Criminal and Civil cases, and the modes prescribed by the Com- 
mon Law for safety of life in criminal prosecutions shall be held sacred 
That standing armies in times of peace are dangerous to liberty and ought 
not to be permitted unless assented to by two thirds of the Members com- 
posing each house of the Legislature under the new Constitution. That 
elections should be free and frequent. That the right administration of 
justice should be secured by the freedom and independency of the Judges. 
That excessive Bail, excessive fines, or cruel and unusual punishments 
should not be demanded or inflicted. That the right of the people t< 
semble pe[a]ceably for the purpose of petitioning the Legislature shall 

Letter-Book, p. 130, is the copy of an agreement (unsigned), which (omittinn the quota- 
tions from the resolves mentioned) is as follows: 

" Whereas the United States in Congress assembled by their Act of the 27th May 1785 
Resolved .... and afterwards by their Act of the 4th of November 1785 did Resolve 
.... Now therefore Know ye that in virtue of the authority given in the last recited Act 
We have agreed upon and appointed and by these presents agree upon and appoint the 
Hon'ble Elbridge Gerry and Henry Remsen Esqr. to be added to those heretofore ap- 
pointed for the purpose expressed in the said Act. Witness our hands this ninth day of 
October in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty seven." 

[734] X N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Samuel Adams Papers. 

•According to Madison's letter to Washington Sept. 30 (no. 736, posl^ I 
first proposal was his resolution recorded in the Journals under Sept. 27 as having been 
rejected; his second movement was the proposal of amendments. Lee sent a copy of his 
amendments to Mason Oct. 1, one to Dr. William Shippen Oct. 2. one to Samuel Adams 
Oct. 5, and one to Governor Randolph Oct. 16 (see nos. 737-739, 745, post). The copy 
sent to Shippen is printed in Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), II. 442-444. The 
text here printed varies from the Shippen text chiefly in embodying the verbal correction-, 
made in that text, although there are also a few minor variations. Lee co ntinu ed hi^ 
advocacy of amendments before adoption throughout the campaign over the adoption of the 
Constitution, embodying his arguments in a scries of Letters of the Federal Farmer, which 
became a sort of text-book for the opposition. As senator in the first Congress under the 
Constitution his chief concern was to bring his desired amendments to fruition, and most 
of those to which the verdict of time has assigned importance were embodied in the first ten 
amendments. 



September, iy8y 649 

not be prevented. That the Citizens shall not be exposed to unreasonable 
searches, seizure of their persons, houses, papers, or property. And as it 
is necessary for the good of Society that the administration of government 
be conducted with all possible maturity of judgement; for which reason 
it hath been the practise of civilized nations, and so determined by every 
State in this Union, that a Council of State, or Privy Council should be 
appointed to advise and assist in the arduous business assigned to the 
Executive power. Therefore, let the new Constitution be so amended 
as to admit the appointment of a Privy Council to consist of eleven Mem- 
bers chosen by the President, but responsible for the advice they may 
give. For which purpose the advice given shall be entered in a Council 
book and signed by the Giver in all affairs of great concern. And that the 
Councellors act under an oath of office. In order to prevent the dangerous 
blending of the Legislative and Executive powers, and to secure responsi- 
bility, The Privy Council and not the Senate shall be joined with the 
President in the appointment of all Officers civil and military under the 
new Co[nstitu]tion. That the Constitution be so altered as to Omit the 
creation of a Vice President whose duties as assigned by the Constitution 
may be discharged by the Privy Council (except in the instance of presid- 
ing in the Senate, wch may be supplied by a Speaker chosen from the body 
of Senators by themselves as usual) and thus to avoid the establishment 
of a gr[eat] Officer of State who is sometimes to be joined with the 
Legislature, and sometimes to administer the Government, rendering re- 
sponsibility difficult; besides giving unjust and needless preeminence to 
that State from whence this Officer may come. That such parts of the new 
Constitution be amended as provide imperfectly for the trial of Criminals 
by a Jury of the Vicinage and to supply the omission of a Jury trial in 
Civil causes or disputes about property between Individuals, whereby the 
Common Law it is directed, and as generally it is secured by the several 
State Constitutions. That such parts of the new Constitution be amended 
as permit the vexatious and oppressive calling of Citizens from their own 
Country, in all controversies concerning property between Citizens of dif- 
ferent States, and between Citizens and foreigners; to be tried in a far 
distant Court and as it may be, without a Jury. Whereby, in a multitude 
of cases, the circumstances of distance and expence, may compel numbers 
to submit to the most unjust and ill founded demands. 

That in order to secure the rights of the people more effectually from 
violation, the power and respectability of the House of representatives be 
increased ; by increasing the number of Delegates to that House where the 
popular interest must chiefly depend for protection. That the Constitution 
be so amended as to increase the number of Votes necessary for making 
laws, in which cases a bare majority is now declared sufficient ; altho the 
choice of a President is required to be made by a greater number where 
the Delegates are to choose that Officer — Tho surely it is as necessary to 
guard against injurious laws, as it is to prevent an improper President 
from beingr chosen. 



650 Continental Congress 

735. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular.) Office of Secretary of Congress, 

Sept. 28th, 1787. 
Sir, 

In obedience to an unanimous resolution of the United States in Con- 
gress assembled, a copy of which is annexed, I have the honor to transmit 
to Your Excellency, the Report of the Convention lately Assembled in 
Philadelphia, together with the resolutions and letter accompanying the 
same; And have to request that Your Excellency will be pleased to lav 
the same before the Legislature, in order that it may be submitted to a con- 
vention of Delegates chosen in Your State by the people of the State in 
conformity to the resolves of the convention, made and provided in that 
case. 2 

736. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

N. York Sept. 30, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I found on my arrival here that certain ideas unfavorable to the act 
of the Convention which had created difficulties in that body, had made 
their way into Congress. They were patronized chiefly by Mr. R. H. L. 
and Mr. Dane of Mass'ts. It was first urged that as the new Constitution 
was more than an alteration of the articles of Confederation under which 
Congress acted and even subverted those Articles altogether there was a 
constitutional impropriety in their taking any positive agency in the work. 2 
The answer given was that the Resolution of Congress in Feby. had rec- 
ommended the Convention as the best means of obtaining a firm national 
Government; that as the powers of the Convention were defined by their 
Commissions in nearly the same terms with the powers of Congress given 
by the Confederation on the subject of alterations Congress were not more 
restrained from acceding to the new plan, than the Convention were from 
proposing it. If the plan was within the powers of the Convention it was 
within those of Congress; if beyond those powers, the same necessity 

[735] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 129; Mass. Arch., Senate Files, 
no. 671 ; N. H. State Papers, XXL 836; Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 190; N. C. State Recs., 
XX. 

2 The report of the Convention was the proposed Constitution, with the accompany- 
ing resolutions and the letter of transmittal. They are recorded in the Journals under 
Sept. 20. See ibid., Sept. 27, 28, and nos. 730-732, 734. onte. Cf. nos. 736-739, Post. On 
the same day (Sept. 28) William Pierce of Georgia, member of the Federal Convention 
and also member of Congress, transmitted a copy of the Constitution, together with a 
copy of Thomson's letter of transmittal, to St. George Tucker and discoursed at some 
length upon the merits of the Constitution. So much of that letter as has Ix-en preserved 
is in Am. Hist. Rev., III. 313; extract in Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, 
III. 100. 

[ 736] l Library of Congress, WashinRton Papers; Writings, V. 4; Papers, II. 643; Doc. 
Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 307; Elliot, Debates, V. 566. 

8 See Richard Henry Lee's motion, seconded by Mclancton Smith, in the Journals. 
Sept. ??, the substitute motion offered by Abraham Clark and Nathaniel Mitchell, and 
the motion of Carrington and Bingham offered in lieu of that of Clark. All these motions 
are crossed out in the Journals. 



September, 1787 651 

which justified the Convention would justify Congress; and a failure of 
Congress to concur in what was done would imply either that the Con- 
vention had done wrong in exceeding their powers, or that the Govern- 
ment proposed was in itself liable to insuperable objections ; that such an 
inference would be the more natural, as Congress had never scrupled to 
recommend measures foreign to their Constitutional functions, whenever 
the public good seemed to require it ; and had in several instances, particu- 
larly in the establishment of the new Western Governments, exercised 
assumed powers of a very high and delicate nature, under motives infinitely 
less urgent than the present state of our affairs, if any faith were due to 
the representations made by Congress themselves, ecchoed by 12 States 
in the Union and confirmed by the general voice of the people. An attempt 
was made in the next place by R. H. L. to amend the Act of the Conven- 
tion before it should go forth from Congress. He proposed a bill of Rights 
provision for juries in civil cases and several other things corresponding 
with the ideas of Col. M. He was supported by Mr. Me. Smith of this 
State. 3 It was contended, that Congress had an undoubted right to insert 
amendments, and that it was their duty to make use of it in a case where 
the essential guards of liberty had been omitted. On the other side the right 
of Congress was not denied, but the inexpediency of exerting it was urged 
on the following grounds. 1. that every circumstance indicated fhat the 
introduction of Congress as a party to the reform, was intended by the 
States merely as a matter of form and respect ; 2. that it was evident from 
the contradictory objections which had been expressed by the different 
members who had animadverted on the plan, that a discussion of its merits 
would consume much time, without producing agreement even among its 
adversaries ; 3. that it was clearly the intention of the States that the plan 
to be proposed should be the act of the Convention with the assent of 
Congress, which could not be the case, if alterations were made, the Con- 
vention being no longer in existence to adopt them ; 4. that as the Act of 
the Convention, when altered would instantly become the mere act of Con- 
gress, and must be proposed by them as such, and of course be addressed 
to the Legislatures, not conventions of the States, and require the ratifica- 
tion of thirteen instead of nine States, and as the unaltered act would go 
forth to the States directly from the Convention under the auspices of 
that Body some States might ratify the one and some the other of the 
plans, and confusion and disappointment be the least evils that could 
ensue. These difficulties which at one time threatened a serious division in 
Cong's and popular alterations with the yeas and nays on the journals, 
were at length fortunately terminated by the following Resolution " Con- 
gress having reed, the Report of the Convention lately assembled in 
Philada. Resolv'd unanimously that the said Report, with the Resolutions 
and letter accompanying the same, be transmitted to the several Legisla- 
tures, in order to be submitted to a Convention of Delegates chosen in 
each State by the people thereof, in conformity to the Resolves of the Con- 

3 See no. 734, ante, and nos. 737-739, 743, 745. 748-75«, 752, 757, post. 
48 



652 Continental Congress 

vention made and provided in that case." * Eleven States were present ; 
the absent ones R. I. and Maryland. A more direct approbation would have 
been of advantage in this and some other States, where stress will be laid 
on the agency of Congress in the matter, and a handle taken by adversaries 
of any ambiguity on the subject. With regard to Virginia and some other 
States, reserve on the part of Congress will do no injury. The circum- 
stance of unanimity must be favorable every where. 5 .... 

737. Richard Henry Lee to George Mason. 1 

New York October 1st 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have waited until now to answer your favor of September 10th from 
Philadelphia that I might inform you how the Convention plan of govern- 
ment was entertained by Congress. 2 Your prediction of what would hap- 
pen in Congress was exactly verified. It was with us, as with you, this or 
nothing : and this urged with a most extreme intemperance. The greatness 
of the powers given, and the multitude of places to be created produce a 
coalition of monarchy men, military men, aristocrats and drones whose 
noise, impudence and zeal exceeds all belief, Whilst the commercial plunder 
of the South stimulates the repacious trader. In this state of things t he- 
patriot voice is raised in vain for such changes and securities as reason 
and experience prove to be necessary against the encroachments of power 
upon the indispensable rights of human nature. Upon due consideration 
of the Constitution under which we now act some of us were clearly of 
opinion that the thirteenth article of the Confederation precluded us from 
giving an opinion concerning a plan subversive of the present system, and 
eventually forming a new Confederacy of nine instead of thirteen States. 
The contrary doctrine was asserted with great violence in expectation of 
the strong majority with which they might send it forward under terms 
of much approbation. Having procured an opinion that Congress was 
qualified to consider, to amend, to approve or disapprove, the next game 
was to determine that though a Right to amend existed, it would be highly 
inexpedient to exercise that right, but merely to transmit it with respect- 
ful marks of approbation. In this state of things I availed myself of the 

* Journals, Sept. 28. See no. 735, ante, also note 3. above. Washington's n 
Oct. 10, is in Writings (ed. Ford), XI. 168, (ed. Sparks), IX. 267; Doc. Hist, of the 
stitution, IV. 321 ; Elliot, Debates, I. 494; Rowland, Life of George Mason, Appendix. 

There follow brief comments upon the apparent attitudes in different parts of 
the country, upon which more extended remarks are found in a letter to his father the same 
day (Writings, V. 2). Preceding these remarks, in the letter to his father, he says: " I 
arrived here on Monday last. The Act of the Convention was then before Congress. It 
has been since taken up, and by a unanimous vote, forwarded to the States to be pro- 
ceeded on as recommended by the Convention." 

Following is William Samuel Johnson's diary Sept. 24-30 (Monday to Sunday) : " J4th 
Do. [1. e., " Fair "] In Congress Din'd Presidents ; 25th. Do. Warm In Congress ; 
26th. Do. In Congress; 27th. Do. In Congress; 28th. Do. In Congress; 29th. Do. Rain In 
Congress Din'd Presidt. ; 30th. Fine Sund'y St. Pauls." 

[737] 1 Rowland, Life of Mason, II. 185; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 438; Am. Hist, told 
by Contemporaries (ed. A. B. Hart), II. 233; Va. Hist. Soc., Lee Trans.. Y. 81. 

* Mason's letter of Sept. 10 docs not appear to have survival. It is supposed to 
have been among those letters of Mason that were used as covers for preserve jars. See 
Kate M. Rowland, Life of Mason, II. 184. 



October, 1787 653 

right to amend, and moved the amendments a copy of which I send here- 
with and called the ayes and nays to fix them on the journal. 3 This alarmed 
the majority and vexed them extremely : for the plan is to push the busi- 
ness on with dispatch, and with as little opposition as possible, that it may 
be adopted before it has stood the test of reflection and due examination. 
They found it most eligible at last to transmit it merely without approving 
or disaproving provided nothing but the transmission should appear on 
the journal. This compromise was settled and they took the opportunity 
of inserting the word unanimously, which applies only to simple trans- 
mission, hoping to have it mistaken for an unanimous approbation of the 
thing. It states Congress having received the Constitution unanimously 
transmit it etc. It is certain that no approbation was given. 4 .... 

[P. S]. Suppose when the Assembly recommended a Convention to 
consider this new Constitution they were to use some words like these: 
It is earnestly recommended to the good people of Virginia to send their 
most wise and honest men to this Convention that it may undergo the most 
intense consideration before a plan shall be without amendments adopted 
that admits of abuses being practised by which the best interests of this 
country may be injured and civil liberty greatly endangered. This might 
perhaps give a decided tone to the business. Please send my son Ludwell 
a copy of the amendments proposed by me to the new Constitution sent 
here with. 

738. Richard Henry Lee to William Shippen, jr. 1 

New York October 2d 1787. 2 
My dear Sir, 

.... I have considered the new Constitution will [with] all the at- 
tention and candor that the thing and the times render necessary, and 
I find it impossible for me to doubt, that in its present State, unamended, 
the adoption of it will put Civil Liberty and the happiness of the people 
at the mercy of Rulers who may possess the great unguarded powers 
given. And I assure you that confidence in the moderation or benignity of 
power is not a plant of quick growth in a reflecting bosom. The necessary 
alterations will by no means interfere with the general nature of the plan, 
or limit the power of doing good; but they will restrain from oppression 
the wicked and tyrannic. If all men were wise and good there would be 
no necessity for government or law. But the folly and the vice of human 
nature renders government and laws necessary for the Many, and restraints 
indispensable to prevent oppression from those who are entrusted with the 

3 Presumably the same propositions a copy of which he sent to Dr. William 
Shippen Oct. 2 and to Samuel Adams Oct. 5. See no. 734, ante, and nos. 738, 739, post. 
See also Madison's account of these proceedings, no. 736, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Sept. 28 ; also nos. 735, 736, ante, and nos. 739, 745, 757, post. 
[738] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Society Collection; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 440. 

2 The secretary of Congress transmitted to the states Oct. 2 a state of the repre- 
sentation in Congress for the month of September and also two copies of the Journals 
from May 10 to September 25. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 130; Va. State Lib., Executive 
Papers; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 191; N. C. State Recs., XX. 



1554 Continental Congress 

administration of one and the dispensation of the other. You will see 
herewith the amendments that appeared to me necessary, 8 they are sub- 
mitted to you and my Excellent old friend at German Town.* Perhaps 
they may be submitted to the world at large. My good old friend has 
made himself better acquainted with Hippocrates than with Plato, and 
relying upon the goodness of his own heart, with't reflecting upon the 
corrupting and encroaching nature of power, he is willing to trust to its 
fangs more than experience justifies. The malady of human nature in 
these States now, seems to be as it was in the years 1778 and 1779 wn " n 
respect to the effect produced by a certain Combination — the Malady that 
I mean is a temporary Insanity. I wish that the present may subside 
with as little public injury as it formerly did, altho that was not small 
in all its branches. 

739. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel .\d\ms.' 

Xi.w YORK October 5th. 1787. 
Having long toiled with you my dear friend in the Vineyard of liberty. 
I do with great pleasure submit to your wisdom and patriotism, the 
objections that prevail in my mind against the new Constitution proposed 
for federal government, Which objections I did propose to Congress in 
form of amendments to be discussed, and such as were approved, might 
be forwarded to the States with the Convention system. You will have 
been informed by other hands why these amendments were not considered 
and do not appear on the Journal, and the reasons that influenced a bare 
transmission of the Convention plan, without a syllable of approbation 
or disapprobation on the part of Congress. 11 .... 

740. Nathaniel Ramsey to the Governor of Maryland 
(William Smallwood). 1 

Carp-point, Octr. 6th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have had the honor, and at the same time the misfortune, to be obliged 
to answer your Summons to attend to my duty in Congress, by informing 
you of my ill State of health. I am only now so far recovered as to be 
able hitherto to attempt rides of a few miles. But, as my health and 
Strength daily increases, and as I am urged by letters from New- York. 
I have proposed setting out for thence as soon as my finances will enable 
me. Such is the State of my private purse that I cannot undertake the 
Journey unless 1 receive some remittance, or a mode be pointed out, how 
I may with certainty, draw for my daily allowance. If the State of the 

8 The proposed amendments are in Letters (id. I'alla^li ), II, 44J-444. See no. 734, 
ante. Cf. nos. 739, 745, 757. post. 

* Probably Dr. William Shippcn the elder. 

[739] l N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 444; Lee, 
Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 74. 

* Cf. nos. 734-738, ante, and nos. 743, 745, 748-750, 75-. 757. A"*'- The remainder 
of the letter sets forth at some length Lee's views of the need for such aimndnuiits. Jay 
transmitted a copy of the Constitution to John Adams Oct. 3. with brief comments. Cor- 
respondence of fay, III. 255; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution. IV. 310. 

[740] ' Hist. Soc. of Pa.. Ktting Coll., III. 18. 



October, 1787 655 

Treasury will enable you to grant me a supply, I will immediately set out, 
otherwise I must stay at home. I have not drawn for the time I attended 
Congress in the Spring; A bill for thirty or forty guineas would now I 
apprehend be adequate to my expences. I beg the favor of an Answer. 2 

741. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

„ f , , . , New York Octr. 7th, 1787. 2 

My dear friend, ' ' ' 

.... Cong's are at present deliberating on the requisition. The 
Treasury Board has reported one in Specie alone, alleging the mischiefs 
produced by " Indents ". It is proposed by a Committee that indents be 
reed, from the States, but that the conditions tying down the States to 
a particular mode of procuring them be abolished; and that the indents 
for one year be receivable in the quotas of any year. 3 

St. Clair is appointed Govr. of the Western Territory, and Majr. Sar- 
jeant of Mass'ts the Secretary of that establishment.* A Treaty with the 
Indians is on the anvil as a supplemental provision for the W. Country. 5 
It is not certain however that any thing will be done as it involves money, 
and we shall have on the floors nine States one more day only 

742. Lambert Cadwalader to George Mitchell. 1 

~. N York Octr. 8, 1787. 2 

.... A Company from N England has purchased a Tract on the 
Ohio p'ble in public Securities, it is supposed that 3 or 4 Mills, of Dollars 

2 While David Ramsay, the brother of Nathaniel, spelled the family name 
R-a-m-s-a-y, Nathaniel appears to have used the spelling R-a-m-s-e-y. 

[741] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 647 (an extract from this 
letter, pertaining to the Constitution, is in Writings, V. 8). 

2 Following is William Samuel Johnson's diary Oct. 1 to 7 : " Octr. 1st. Do. 
[1. e., " Fine "] In Congress at College Exam'n ; 2d. Do. In Congress Exam'n Rivington ; 
3d. Do. In Congress ; 4th. Do. Cold In Congress Din'd Knox's ; 5th. Do. Cold In Con- 
gress ; 6th. Rain Cold. In Congress Lands ; 7th. Do. Sund'y St. Pauls." 

3 The board of treasury was instructed July 14 to prepare the requisition and made 
their report Sept. 29. On Oct. 5 the board's report appears to have been referred, together 
with a motion of John Kean, to a committee, who made report Oct. 8. The requisition was 
adopted Oct. 11. See no. 746, post. With regard to the question respecting indents see no. 
701, ante, and nos. 744, 746, 748, 759, post. 

4 These elections were on Oct. 5; the judges were chosen Oct. 16. See nos. 715, 
716, 723, ante, 744, 747, 753, post. 

5 A committee on Indian affairs (see the Journals, July 11, 18," 19, 21, 25, 31, Aug. 
3, and nos. 703, 705, ante) reported July 31 in favor of a general treaty, and on Aug. 9 
made an extended report on the subject. On Oct. 5 a resolution to that end was adopted, 
including the provision that the governor of the western territory should hold the treaty 
agreeably to such instructions as Congress should thereafter give for the purpose. On 
Oct. 12 twenty thousand dollars were appropriated for holding the treaty, " whenever the 
same shall be hereafter judged necessary ", and at the same time the resolve of Oct. 5, 
which had included stipulations with regard to the time, etc., was repealed. Then, by a 
resolve Oct. 22, the governor of the western territory was empowered to hold the treaty 
in the ensuing spring, " if in his judgment the public good requires it ", and he was limited 
to a maximum of fourteen thousand dollars for the purpose. See nos. 744, 747, 749, 755, 
post. 

[742] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9414 (addressed to Mitchell at Dagsborough, 
Delaware). 

2 A letter from Pierce Butler to Weedon Butler, Oct. 8, commenting upon the 
Constitution, is printed in Farrand, Records of the Federal Comwntion (from the original 



G56 Continental Congress 

will be sunk in this way. another is forming for the Purchase of a second 
Tract, these in addition to the Lands already surveyed and now selling 
at Vend [ue] must lessen our domestick Debt considerably. 8 It is said a 
third Company will come forward ere long. 4 .... 

743. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York Octob'r 11, 1787. 2 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have the pleasure to see the first Act of Congress for selling 
federal lands N. W of Ohio becoming productive very fast, A large sum 
of public securities being already paid in upon the first sales : and a new 
Contract is ordered to be made with a company in N. Jersey for the lands 
between the two Miamis that will rid us of at least 2 millions more of 
the public debt. There is good reason to suppose that by the next spring 
we shall have reduced the domestic debt near six millions of dollars. And 
is seems clear that the lands yet to be disposed of if well managed, will 
sink the whole 30 Millions that are due." .... 

It is under the strongest impressions of your goodness and candor that 
I venture to make the observations that follow in this letter, assuring 
you that I feel it among the first distresses that have happened to me in 
my life, that I find myself compelled by irresistible conviction of mind, 
to doubt about the new System for federal government recommended by 
the late Convention. 4 

It is Sir, in consequence of long reflection upon the nature of Man 
and of government, that I am led to fear the danger that will ensue to 
Civil Liberty from the adoption of the new system in its present form. I 
am fully sensible of the propriety of change in the present plan of con- 
in the British Museum, Additional MSS., 16603). A letter from William Samuel John- 
son, of the same date, to his son, Samuel William Johnson, then at St. George's, Bermuda 
(N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9448), relates in part to the reception of the Constitu- 
tion. Johnson indicates his intention to be in New Haven the following week. His diary 
for the same day records that he was " In Congress ". For the remainder of the week the 
record is: "9th. Rain In Congress. Comm'ee Steuben; 10th. Fine In Congress. Din'd 
Presidents; nth. Do. In Congress. Do.; 12th. Fair In Congn 

8 See nos. 696, 697, 699, 707. 7'0, 711, ante, 743, 747. 748, post. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 20, 22; also nos. 743, 747. 748, post. The remainder of the 
letter chiefly concerns the refusal of Randolph, Mason, and Gerry to sign the Constitution. 

[743] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 179; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 323; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 448. 

2 Following is James Schureman's statement of account for attendance at Con- 
gress, rendered Oct. n (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 792) : 

" State of New Jersey to Js. Schureman Dr. 

1787 Octr. nth To his service in Congress since the second day of April last 

one hundred twenty four days at 25/ £i55^0.o 

New Jersey 
Treasury Office 

James Schureman Esqr. Being duly Sworn saith that the Above Stated account is 
Just and True. 

Js. Schureman 
Sworn Octob'r 11th 1787 Before James Mott Jp." 

• Cf. no. 742, ante, and nos. 747, 748, post. 

« See nos. 734, 736-739, ante, 745, 757. post. 



October, 1787 657 

federation, and although there may be difficulties, not inconsiderable, in 
procuring an adoption of such amendments to the Convention System 
as will give security to the just rights of human nature, and better secure 
from injury the discordant interests of the different parts of this Union ; 
yet I hope that these difficulties are not insurmountable, Because we are 
happily uninterrupted by external war, or by such internal discords as can 
prevent peaceable and fair discussion, in another Convention, of those 
objections that are fundamentally strong against the new Constitution, 
which abounds with useful regulations. As there is so great a part of 
the business well done already, I think that such alterations as must give 
very general content, could not long employ another Convention when 
provided with the sense of the different States upon those alterations, 

I am much inclined to believe that the amendments generally thought 
to be necessary, will be found to be of such a nature, as tho they do not 
oppose the exercise of a very competent federal power; are yet such as 
the best theories on Government, and the best practise upon those theories, 
have found necessary. At the same time that they are such as the opinions 
of our people have for ages been fixed on. It would be unnecessary for 
me here to enumerate particulars as I expect the honor of waiting on you 
at Mount Vernon in my way home early in November/' .... 

744. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

Dear Sir, New York Octr. 14,1787. 

. . . . 2 Congress have been of late employed chiefly in settling the 
requisition, and in making some arrangements for the Western Country. 
The latter consist of the appointment of a Govr. and Secretary and the 
allotment of a sum of money for Indian Treaties if they should be found 
necessary. The Requisition so far as it varies our fiscal system, makes 
the proportion of indents receivable independently of specie, and those 
of different years indiscriminately receivable for any year, and does not 
as heretofore tie down the States to a particular mode of obtaining them. 3 
Mr. Adams has been permitted to return home after Feby. next, and Mr. 
Jeffersons appointment continued for three years longer. 4 .... 

5 " Sunday, nth [November]. ... in the evening Colo. Richd. Henry Lee came 
in. Monday, 12th. Colo. Lee went away about n oclock" (Fitzpatrick, Diaries of Wash- 
ington, III. 266). 

[ 744] x Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings, V. o; Letters to Washing- 
ton (ed. Sparks), IV. 182; Doc. Hist, of th^e Constitution, IV. 329. 

2 In the passage omitted Madison speaks of the reception of the Constitution in 
the northern and middle states. Concerning Pennsylvania see Tench Coxe to Madison 
Sept. 27, 28, in Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 206, 304. In a letter to Washington Oct. 
18 (Writings, V. n) Madison discussed Mason's objections to the Constitution, a copy of 
which Washington had transmitted to him Oct. 10 (see no. 736, note 4, ante). Mason's 
" Objections ", together with Madison's letters of Sept. 30 and Oct. 18, are printed in an 
appendix to the Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks), IX. 542-549. On the same day that 
Madison was writing to Washington Gerry set forth his objections in a letter to the 
Massachusetts legislature (Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 636; Carey, American Museum, 
II. 435; Elliot, Debates, I. 494; Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, III. 128). 
To Gerry's objections Rufus King replied in an address to the Massachusetts convention 
(Life of King, I. 303). See no. 763, post. 

3 See no. 741, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Oct. 5, 12, 16, 1787, and Feb. 12, 1788 ; also nos. 701-707, 724. 
ante, 749, 756, 792, post. 



658 Continental Congress 

745. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York, October 16, 1787. 

.... With the Constitution came, from the Convention, so many 
members of that body to Congress, and of those, too, who were among 
the most fiery zealots for their system, that the votes of three states being 
of them, two states divided by them, and many others mixed with them, 
it is easy to see that Congress could have little opinion upon the subject. 

Some denied our right to make amendments; whilst others, more 
moderate, agreed to the right, but denied the expediency of amending; 
but it was plain that a majority was ready to send it on, in terms of 
approbation. My judgment and conscience forbade the last ; and there- 
fore I moved the amendments that I have the honor to send you enclosed 
herewith, and demanded the yeas and nays, that they might appear on 
the Journal. 

This seemed to alarm; and, to prevent such appearance on the Journal, 
it was agreed to transmit the Constitution without a syllable of approbation 
or disapprobation ; so that the term " unanimously " only applied to the 
transmission, as you will observe by attending to the terms of the resolve 
for transmitting. Upon the whole, sir, my opinion is. that, as this Con- 
stitution abounds with useful regulations, at the same time that it is liable 
to strong and fundamental objections, the plan for us to pursue will be 
to propose the necessary amendments, and express our willingness to 
adopt it with the amendments, and to suggest the calling a new convention 
for the purpose of considering them. To this I see no well-founded 
objection, but great safety and much good to be the probable result." .... 

746. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congk 

Oct. 18, 17s- 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your ex'y herewith enclosed, an Act 
of the United States in Congress Assembled, touching the grant of 
favours to foreign Nations; 2 and a requisition for the year 1787 which 
your Excellency will be pleased to lay before your legislature. For further 
details on this last I beg leave to refer you to the letter which the board 
of treasury will write to you on this Subject. 3 I also send enclosed an 
Act for keeping up a body of 700 troops.* 

[745] 1 Elliot, Debates, I. 503; Carey, American Museum, II. 553. 

2 See nos. 730-732, 734-739. 743. ante. 
[746] J Library of Congress. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 131 ; Mass. Arch., Senate Ffltt, 
no. 2633; N. C. State Rccs.. XXI. 503. 

2 The resolves, which were adopted Oct. 13 on a report of the secretary for foreign 
affairs, had their origin in a complaint of the minister of the Netherlands against an act 
of the Virginia legislature. For the antecedent history of the matter see the Journals. 
Mar. I, 15, Aug. 2 (appointment of a committee), and Sept. 24 (the committee's report) ; 
also nos. 602, 613, 614, 622, 639, ante. 

•The requisition was adopted Oct. It. See nos. 741, 744. ante. The board of 
treasury was instructed to send a statement and explanatory letter to the several rtsttt. 

4 See the Journals. Oct. 2, 3. 



October, 1787 659 

747. William Grayson to James Monroe. 1 

N York 22nd, Octob. 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have received your favor, and delivered the enclosure to Miss Kort- 
right ; the Capt. being on a trip to the township. Congress four days since 
made a contract with Royal Flint and associates of N. York for three 
millions of acres on the Wabash on nearly the same terms as that of 
Cutler and Sarjeant. 2 I believe I informed you that Judge Symms of 
Jersey had contracted for two millions between the Great and the little 
Miami. The whole of the contracts will when fully complied with, amount 
to an extinguishment of six Millions Doll's of the domestic debt, and 
congress now looking upon the Western country in its true light, * e, as 
a most valuable fund for the total extinctionment of the domestic debt, 
have directed the treasury board to continue the sales on nearly the same 
terms and principles as those already made. A very considerable emigra- 
tion will take effect from the five Eastermost States. A Brigade files off 
from Massachusets immed'ly and which is to be followed by much more 
considerable ones next spring and fall. A Doctr. Gano a Baptist preacher 
in this town will carry out (it is said) his whole congregation amounting 
to five hundred. Symms is beating up for volunteers in the Jerseys, as 
is the case with Parsons in Connecticut, and Varnum in Rhode Island; 
these two last are appointed Judges in the Western country. 3 

Congress have authorized St. Clair now Governor of the Western terri- 
tory to hold a treaty with the Indians next spring if necessary and 14,000 
dollars are appropriated for this purpose, a treaty is also directed with the 
Cherokees and Creeks and 6,000 dollars are appropriated for it. 4 ... . 

The Brittish packett arrived last night : but we have not yet received 
the dispatches from the Secy, for foreign affairs : The news of the day 
is that the affairs of Holland are in as bad a train as ever: I shall set 
out from this in about ten days and it is possible I may have the pleasure 
of seeing you in Richmond. 5 .... 

[747] l Library of Congress, Monroe Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 

L 445- 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 20, 22. The sale appears to have been consummated on 
the 1 8th, and reported to Congress by the board of treasury on the 22d. See nos. 742, 743, 
ante. The general authorization to the board of treasury, mentioned farther on, was on 
Oct. 23. See also nos. 748, 759, post. . 

3 Samuel Holden Parsons, James Mitchel Varnum, and John Armstrong, jr., were 
elected judges of the northwest territory Oct. 16. See nos. 741, 744, ante, and no. 853, post. 
Armstrong resigned Jan. 21, 1788 (see the Journals, Jan. 22, Feb. 13, and no. 856, post), 
and on Feb. 19 John Cleves Symmes was elected in his stead. 

♦See nos. 741 (note 5), 744, ante, 749, 755, post. The matter of holding a treaty 
with the Southern Indians was initiated by a motion of Henry Lee Oct. 25 and concluded 
by the adoption of a committee report and the requisite instructions Oct. 26. Furthermore 
Carrington says in his letter of Oct. 23 (no. 748, post), "We have received no accounts 
from Europe since your August dispatches ". Evidently therefore this part of the letter 
was written not earlier than Oct. 26. 

The arrival of the packet was doubtless on Oct. 25 or 26 (see note 4, above). In 
a letter to Washington Oct. 28 Madison says. " The British Packet has arrived but I 
do not learn that any news comes by her. Her passage has been a tedious one " ( Writings, 
V. 42). After Oct. 27 there was no quorum of Congress until Jan. 21, 1788, therefore no 
despatches were laid before Congress in the interval. 



660 Continental Congress 

748. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Octo 23, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been honoured with your favor of the 4th of August. 2 inclosed 
you will receive a Copy of the Report of our late federal Convention, 
which presents, not amendments to the old Confederation, but an entire 
new Constitution. This work is short of the ideas I had the honor to 
communicate to you in June, in no other instance than an absolute negative 
upon the State laws. 8 

When the report was before Congress, it was not without its direct 
opponents, but a great majority were for giving it a warm approbation, 
it was thought best, however, by its friends, barely to recommend to the 
several Legislatures, the holding of Conventions for its consideration, 
rather than send it forth with, even, a single negative to an approbatory 
act. The people do not scrutinize terms; the unanimity of Congress in 
recommending a measure to their consideration, naturally implies approba- 
tion : but any negative to a direct approbation, would have disavowed a 
dissention, which would have been used to favor divisions in the States, 
it certainly behoved Congress to give a measure of such importance, and 
respectable birth, a fair chance in the deliberations of the people, and I 
think the step taken in that body well adapted to this idea. 4 .... 

The Western Territory belonging to the United States has more 
effectually received the attention of Congress during this session than it 
ever did before, inclosed you will receive the ordinance for establishing a 
Temporary government there, and providing for its more easy passage 
into permanent state governments, under the old arrangements the country 
might upon the whole have become very populous, and yet be inadmissable 
to the rights of state government, which would have been disgusting 
to them and ultimately inconvenient for the Empire, the new arrange- 
ment depends on the accession of Virginia which there can be no doubt 
of obtaining. 5 the offices of the T. Government are filled up as follows. 
Genl. St. Clair Govr. Winthrop Sargent Secretary, Genl. Parsons, Genl. 
Armstrong junr. and Genl. Varnum, Judges. 6 

Seven Ranges of Townships are surveyed — they extend nearly to 
muskingum and contain about 12 or 15 Millions of Acres — about 130,000 
Acres have been sold according to the ordinance — the survey will probably 
go no further in strict pursuance of the ordinance, but still the System 

[748] l Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, 
II. 445 (extract) ; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 344 (extract). 

2 Jefferson's letter is in Writings, IV. 423. His reply, Dec. 21, to this letter and 
that of Nov. 10 (no. 761, post) is ibid., p. 480. 

8 Carrington's letter of June 9 is no. 673, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 730-732, 736, ante, and no. 749, post. Carrington next proceeds to give, 
first, some account of the reception of the Constitution in the northern states, particularly 
in New York and Pennsylvania, then in the southern states, although from them, he re- 
marks, " we are but imperfectly informed ". The latter passage is nearly duplicated in his 
letter to Short Oct. 25 (no. 752, post). He adds his own reasons for supporting the 
Constitution. 

6 See nos. 696-698, 705, 707, 710, 711, 723, 726, ante; cf. nos. 759, 833, post. 

• Journals, Oct. 5, 16. 



October, 1787 661 

will be preserved in the conditions of contracts for large Tracts of the 
Country, to companies of adventurers — the first instance of this mode 
presents itself in an authority to the Treasury Board in August last, to 
contract with a large company of New Englanders, for all the country 
from the seventh Range, to Sioto, within a due west line to be continued 
from the northern boundary of the tenth Township — the whole of this 
Tract is supposed to contain about 5 Millions of Acres — the terms are, 
that the U. S. shall survey and demark the external boundaries, and 
ascertain the contents of the Tract — the Company to lay it out at their 
own expence, into Townships and sections agreably to the ordinance, 
subject to the reserves therein described except that one of the sections 
for future sale, shall be granted for the purposes of religion, and there 
are also two compleat Townships granted for an University in or near 
the Middle of the Tract. — all other lands good, bad, and indifferent, to be 
pd. for at ^ds of a dollar per Acre in Securities, excluding the interest — 
half a Million of dollars to be paid down upon closing the contract, and 
possession taken so far as such payment will cover — afterwards payments 
and occupency are to go on, pari passue at certain periods, under certain 
stipulations of reciprocal ensurance. this contract is now actually closed — 
another offer is made by judge Symes and his associates from Jersey 
for about 2 Millions between the Miamis upon the same terms, and. sundry 
other propositions are forming, whereupon Congress have authorised 
the Treasury Board, to sell by contract any quantity not less than a 
Million, making the terms of the Eastern company the ground, with 
diviations from the grant for an University, and those for Religion, 
unless the Tract be equally large. 7 This mode of sale will relieve the 
U. S. of much expence, and the progress of the sales promise to be 
sufficiently rapid to give our people early relief from the pressure of the 
domestic debt. 

I am inclined to believe that some successful experiment might be made 
for the sale [of] a part of this territory in Europe, and have suggested 
a trial with a few Ranges of the surveyed Townships, it did not strike 
Congress as eligible and of course no step was taken in it. I do not 
suppose it would be worth while to try the project on any but lands actually 
surveyed and well described. 8 

We have received no accounts from Europe since your August dis- 
patches, of course the state of things there are in considerable obscurity 
as to us. 9 

Your remarks upon the French loan have occasioned some discussion 
in Congress, but many reasons operate to prevent an assent to your 
proposition, by some it is supposed it would be found inconvenient to 
shift from creditors that will not complain of our delinquency, to those 
that will, by others that we have reason to rely upon the indulgence of 

7 See the Journals, July 23, 27, Sept. 20, 21, Oct. 20, 22, 23 ; also nos. 706, 707, 710, 
7", 723, 747, ante, 749. 759, 833, 853, post. 

8 Cf. no. 762, post. 

See no. 747, note 5, ante. 



$69 Continental Congress 

France in the case of a debt which was contracted for the common benefit 
of the two nations, my own opinion is that the transfer ought to be made 
if practicable. 10 



74a James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, Octr. _>4, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You will herewith receive the result of the Convention, which 
continued its session till the 17th of September. I take the liberty of 
making some observations on the subject, which will help to make up a 
letter, if they should answer no other purpose. 

It appeared to be the sincere and unanimous wish of the Convention 
to cherish and preserve the Union of the States. No proposition was 
made, no suggestion was thrown out. in favor of a partition of the Empire 
into two or more Confederacies.- .... 

When the plan came before Cong for their sanction, a very serious 
effort was made by R. H. Lee and Mr. Dane from Mass'ts to embarrass 
it. It was first contended that Congress could not properly give any 
positive countenance to a measure which had for its object the subversion 
of the Constitution under which they acted. This ground of attack failing. 
the former gentleman urged the expediency of sending out the plan with 
amendments, and proposed a number of them corresponding with the 
objections of Col. Mason. This experiment had still less effect. In order 
however to obtain unanimity it was necessary to couch the resolution in 
very moderate terms. 3 

Mr. Adams has reed, permission to return, with thanks for his scrvn 
No provision is made for supplying his place, or keeping up any repre- 
sentation there. 4 your reappointment for three years will be notified from 
the office of F. Affrs. It was [made without a negative, eight States | 
being [present. Connecticut, notwithstanding, put in a blank ticket], the 
[sense of] that [State having been declared against embassies. Ma 

10 Sec tin- Journals, Oct. 2. The proposition for a transfer of the del* had been 
bro u g h t to Jay's attenti o n by Jefferson in a letter of Sept. 26, 1786 (Dipl. Corr., U. S. A., 
1783-1789. I. 812), and again in a letter of Nov. 12, with which he transmitted the Dutch 
proposition (ibid.. II. 3-10). In a letter to Jefferson Apr. 25, 1787. Jay stated that sundn 
letters, including that of Nov. 12. had been laid before Congress, but that he had received 
no instructions (ibid., II. 36). Jefferson once more referred to the matter in a letter t<> 
Jay Aug. 6 (ibid., p. 66), laid before Congress Sept. 25, and this letter Jay acknowledged 
Oct. 24 (ibid., p. 81), when he transmitted the act of Oct. 2. See also Jefferson to Dunia- 
Pcb. 9, 1787 (i'/m(/., p. 38), and Jefferson to Adams July 1 (ibid., p. 63). Cf. no. 749, post. 
[749] « Writing*, V. 17; Papers, II. 650; Elliot, Debates, V. 568. 

2 The observation! on the character of the Constitution, which helped " to make up 
a letter", run to more than sixteen printed pages, to which are added, before the lett 
closed, more than three pages on the reception accorded the Constitution in different parts 
of the country. See Jefferson's reply, Dec. 20, in Writings, IV. 473. 

8 See nos. 734-739, 743, 745. 748, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Oct. 5, and nos. 724, 744, ante; also Jay to Adams Oct. 16, in 
Correspondence of Jay, III. 257, and in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 796. See also 
nos. 756, 792, post. 



October, 1/8/ 663 

chus'ts betrayed some scruple] on [like ground]. Every [personal con- 
sideration] was [avowed] and [I believe with sincerity], to have [militated 
against these scruples]. 5 It seems to be understood that letters to and 
from the foreign Ministers of the U. S. are not free of postage; but that 
the charge is to be allowed in their accounts. 

The exchange of our French for Dutch Creditors has not been coun- 
tenanced either by Congress or the Treasury Board. The paragraph in 
your last letter to Mr. Jay, on the subject of applying a loan in Holland 
to the discharge of the pay due to the foreign officers has been referred to 
the Board since my arrival here. No report has yet been made. But I 
have little idea that the proposition will be adopted. Such is the state 
and prospect of our fiscal department that any new loan however small, 
that should now be made, would probably subject us to the reproach of 
premeditated deception. The balance of Mr. Adams' last loan will be 
wanted for the interest due in Holland, and with all the income here, will, 
it is feared, not save our credit in Europe from further wounds. It may 
well be doubted whether the present Govt, can be kept alive thro' the 
ensuing year, or untill the new one may take its place. 

Upwards of 100,000 Acres of the surveyed lands of the U. S. have been 
disposed of in open market. Five million of unsurveyed have been sold by 
private contract to a N. England Company, at ^ of a dollar per acre, 
payment to be made in the principal of the public securities. A negbciation 
is nearly closed with a N. Jersey Company for two million more on like 
terms, and another commenced with a Company of this City for four 
million. Col. Carrington writes more fully on this subject. 7 .... 

Now. 1 . . . . 

We hear from Georgia that that State is threatened with a dangerous 
war with the Creek Indians. The alarm is of so serious a nature that law- 
martial has been proclaimed, and they are proceeding to fortify even the 
Town of Savannah. The idea there is, that the Indians derive their 
motives as well as their means from their Spanish neighbours. Individuals 
complain also that their fugitive slaves are encouraged by East Florida. 
The policy of this is explained by supposing that it is considered as a 
discouragement to the Georgians to form settlements near the Spanish 
boundaries. 8 

There are but few States on the spot here which will survive the 
expiration of the federal year; and it is extremely uncertain when a 
Congress will again be formed. We have not yet heard who are to be 
in the appointment of Virginia for the next year. 9 

• r> See the Journals, Oct. 12, 16; cf. no. 744, ante. Jay transmitted the new com- 
mission to Jefferson Oct. 24 (two letters of that date, Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
II. 81, 83). Bracketed words in this passage were written in cipher. 

6 See no. 748, note 10, ante. 

7 See no. 748, note 7, ante. 

8 See no. 747, note 4, ante ; and nos. 755, 760, 779, post; cf. ]z.y to Jefferson Nov. 3, 
in Correspondence of Jay, III. 259, and Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 138. A letter 
from George Mathews, governor of Georgia, Nov. 15, 1787, on the state of Indian affairs, 
was laid before Congress Jan. 22, 1788. See also the Journals, Feb. 1. 

9 The election had taken place Oct. 23, the delegates chosen being James Madison, 
Edward Carrington, Henry Lee, John Brown, and Cyrus Griffin. 



664 Continental Congress 

750. James Madison to William Short. 1 

New York Octr. 24, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The paper which I enclose for Mr. Jefferson will shew you the 
result of the Convention. The nature of the subject, the diversity of 
human opinion, and the collision of local interests, and of the pretensions 
of the large and small states, will not only account for the length of 
time consumed in the work, but for the irregularities which may be dis- 
covered in its structure and form. I shall learn with much solicitude the 
comments of the philosophical Statesmen of Europe, on this new fabric 
of American policy. Unless however their future criticisms should evince 
a more thorough knowledge of our situation as well as of the free genius 
of Republican Government, than many of their past, my curiosity will 
not be rewarded with much instruction 2 



751. The Secretary of Congress to the Governors of North Caro- 
lina and Georgia. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

October 25, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
a representation of the United States in Congress Assembled to the States 
of North Carolina and Georgia on the subject of surrendering a portion 
of their territorial Claims for the general benefit." 

In order to give your Excellency a more comprehensive view of the 
subject I have thought it not improper to accompany the present Act 
of Congress with a Copy of their first recommendation and the declara- 
tion and Instructions of Maryland — which gave rise to it, and beg leave 
to inform you that when Maryland impowered her delegates to subscribe 
the Articles of Confederation the Legislature did it with a reliance on 
the justice of the several States thereafter touching the Claim stated in 
their declaration. 

I have only to add that in compliance with the recommendation of Con- 
gress, the States of Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Virginia 
and South Carolina have made Cessions of territorial Claims in the \\ 
ern Country, which are now selling for public securities, and that Con- 

[750] * Library of Congress, Papers of William Short. III. 

2 The remainder of the letter is chiefly concerned with the attitudes toward the 
Constitution in the different states, particularly in Virginia, with some remarks on the delay 
of John Paul Jones's departure and the consequent delay of his letter to Jefferson. 

[75 1] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 132; .V. C. State Rccs., XXI. 
503 (with the date 1788). 

8 See Grayson's motion, in the Journals, Oct. 16, and the resolve <>t Oct 20. Cj. 
no. 759, post. See further the report of the secretary of Congress Jan. 23, in the Journals, 
Feb. 1. Concerning the North Carolina and Georgia cessions see P. J. Treat, National 
Land System, pp. 340-361. On the same day the secretary for foreign affairs transmitted 
to the governor of Georgia an act of Oct. 20 for the recognition of George Miller as 
British consul for North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia (copied from the anginal, 
then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Hcnkels of Philadelphia). 



October, 1787 665 

gress have such faith in the justice and magnanimity of the States of 
North Carolina and Georgia that they only think it necessary again to call 
their attention to the subject not doubting but upon consideration of it 
and the circumstances attending it they will feel those Obligations which 
will induce them to make similar Cessions and justify the confidence which 
has been placed in them. 



752. Edward Carrington to William Short. 1 

New York Octo. 25th, 1787. 2 
My dear Sir, 

.... from the Southern States our information js very imperfect, 
but from the zeal and unanimity of the Members from the Carolina's and 
Georgia, as well in Convention as Congress, and from the known influ- 
ence of Men of this description in those States, it is well to understood 
[sic'] that the proposed scheme will be favorably received in that quarter, 
in Virginia we learn from superficial accounts from the Assembly upon 
their first meeting, that a great Majority of the Members declare in its 
favor — but it has meet [sic] with the dissent of two of her members in 
Convention, and was disapproved by the same number of those who rep- 
resented her in Congress — these dissentients were Colo. Mason and Govr. 
Randolph in Convention who refused to sign the report — Mr. R. H. Lee 
and Mr. Grayson in Congress, who were actually agt. an approbatory Act, 
although they agree to join in the bare recommendation of conventions 
for its consideration in the States. 3 from characters of this description 
being opposed, we are naturally to apprehend some difficulty in that State, 
but I am led to believe that the generality of the adoption which is prob- 
able in the other States, will have much influence in bringing her into the 
measure. We have not yet been informed what part Mr. Henry will 
take — Much will depend on him 

P. S. the disapprobation of Mr. R. H. L. and that of Mr. G. are founded 
on very opposite principles — the former thinks the Constitution too strong, 
the latter is of opinion that is too weak. 4 

[752] x Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, III. 482. 

2 A letter from Carrington to Short Oct. 23 (ibid.) was principally to introduce 
Mr. Jarvis, who appears to have been the bearer also of Madison's letters of Oct. 24 (nos. 
749, 750. ante). 

3 See nos. 730-732, 734-739, ante. 

4 See no. 748, note 4, ante. In his letter to Jefferson Carrington says, speaking of 
Virginia : " nor was that State without its dissentients, of the same description, in Con- 
gress — these were Mr. R. H. Lee and Mr. Grayson, but upon very opposite principles, — 
the former because it is to[o] strong, the latter because it is too weak ". Madison wrote 
to Archibald Stuart Oct. 30 : " Nothing is more common here and I presume the case 
must be the same with you than to see companies of intelligent people equally divided, and 
equally earnest in maintaining on one side that the general government will overwhelm 
the state governments, and on the other hand that it will be a prey to their encroachments ; 
on one side that the structure of the government is too firm and too strong, and on the 
other that it partakes too much of the weakness and instability of the Governments of the 
particular states" (Writings, V. 47). Cf. no. 762, post. 



666 Continental Congress 

753- James White to William Blount. 1 

PhTLADA, 25th Octobr. I I/87.] 
D'r Sir, 

I take the liberty to enclose you a parcel of paper money remaining 
after my journey. Its amount is thirty four pounds for which you may 
give me credit according to the exchange it goes at. I thought perhaps you 
might find some way of applying the stuff, which would otherwise be 
embarrassing my papers. 

On account of the business in which you have lately been engaged 1 
would enclose you the political papers respecting it only that I take it for 
granted you will be receiving them from other quarters. I must own I 
had conceived an apprehension that all your labours would probably end 
in smoke ; for what hopes was there that so many jarring and biggotted 
sovereigns would descend from any of their fancied independencies for 
the common advantage? I hope however that the good (/cuius of our 
young Empire will rise Superior. The opposed faction here is weak, and 
there efforts appear to be unini]>ortant. However the contest is s u pported 
with some vigour in the prints. 

I shall be very happy to correspond with you from X -york if I should 
be there this winter, and you have leisure; But I doubt you will have con- 
nected yourself with so many, in the epistolary way, that you will scarcely 
have room for answering me, because I sent you two or three letters, 
without the pleasure of an answer. Yet I still hope that perhaps my letters 
did not come to your hands. 

754. The Secretary of Congress to George Washington. 1 

Office of the Secretary of Congri 

Oct. jj, 1787. 
Sir, 

The enclosed order of the United States in Congress assembled will 
apologize for the trouble I give in requesting you to send me the copy oi 
a paper enclosed in Mr. President Lauren's letter of the iq feby. 1778 and 
marked " Committee's Conference with Baron Steuben ["]. 

The Baron thinks himself entitled to an indemnification for an annuity 
of about £600 sterling for life which he relinquished upon coming to 
America. To obtain this he has made application to Congress grounding 
his claim upon a verbal contract with a committee who conferred with him 
when he first came to York town. There is no mention of such a con- 
tract on the journal nor any trace of it on the files. But in the letter of 
the 19 feby. 1778 which Mr. Laurens wrote to you by the Baron there is a 
paragraph wherein he says, that "upon the Arrival of this illustrious 
stranger at York town, Congress ordered a committee consisting of Mr. 
WitluTspoon Mr. McKean Mr. F. L. Lee and Mr. 1 lenry to wait upon and 

confer with him to pay the necessary compliments on his appearance in 

T753] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 
[754] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 133. 



October, 1787 667 

America And to learn explicitly his expectations from Congress " and 
then proceeds to say " the committee were directed to deliver him the sub- 
stance of their conference in writing to be transmitted for your excellency's 
information " — and that all he received or knew on this head will be seen 
in an enclosed paper marked Committee's conference with Baron Steuben 
to which he begs leave to refer your Excellency. As it is expected that 
this paper will throw light on the subject and remove all doubts, I have to 
request the favour of you to send me a copy of it to be communicated to 
Congress. 2 

755. The Secretary of Congress to the Governors of North Caro- 
lina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

October 27th, 1787. 
Sir, 

The United States in Congress Assembled being informed that there is 
a probability that hostilities may have commenced, or are on the eve of 
commencing between the State of North Carolina and the Cherokee Na- 
tion of Indians, and between the State of Georgia and the Creek nation 
of Indians ; And being anxious to restore and preserve peace and harmony 
between the said States and the said Indians, have passed the resolutions 
and Instructions which are herewith enclosed. 

By these Your Excellency will see that the States of North Carolina, 
South Carolina and Georgia are authorised each to appoint one Commis- 
sioner — that the said Commissioners in conjunction with the Superin- 
tendant of Indian Affairs for the southern Department, or in his absence 
by themselves, may negotiate a treaty for establishing peace between the 
United States and the tribes of Indians in the southern department ; And 
that a sum of money is appropriated for this business. 

It now rests with these States to give efficacy to these resolves, and I am 
persuaded Your Excellency will, as far as in your power take the necessary 
steps for carrying into execution the good intentions of Congress. 2 

2 See nos. 286 (note 2), 539 (note 4), 545, ante. That part of Laurens's letter to 
Washington Feb. 19, 1778, pertaining to Steuben is in these Letters, III. 21. Steuben's 
memorial was read in Congress Oct. 6 and referred to a committee, whose report, Oct. 25, 
resulted in the order to the secretary of Congress herein set forth. Washington's reply, 
Nov. 10, with a certificate (Papers Cont. Cong., no. ig, vol. V., f. 581 ; certificate at f. 585), 
was read in Congress Jan. 22, 1788. See also Washington to Hamilton Nov. 10 {Writings, 
ed. Sparks, IX. 275; Hamilton's Works, ed. Hamilton, I. 449). For the further course of 
the matter see the Journals, Feb. 1, June 4, July 7, 9, 25, Aug. 25, Sept. 11, 1788. Cf. nos. 
856, 923, post. The report of Sept. 11 is included in a list of reports which had not been 
acted upon at the close of 1788 (see appendix to the Journals of 1788). 

[755] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 135 ; N. C. State Recs., XX. 783. 

2 See no. 741, 744, 747, 749, ante, 760, 774, post. The motion of Henry Lee, Oct. 25, 
was for the appointment of two commissioners who, in conjunction with the superinten- 
dent of Indian affairs in the Southern department, should hold the treaty, and that the 
balance (six thousand dollars) of the sum originally appropriated for the northern treaty 
(see no. 741, note 5, ante) be applied to the negotiation of the southern treaty. The com- 
mittee to whom the motion was referred reported the following day, and among their 
recommendations was one that three commissioners be appointed, one each by the states 
of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, who, with sundry provisos, were to hold 
49 



668 Continental Congress 

P. S. The Instructions are to be considered as private and to be delivered 
to the Commissioner when chosen, for his Government. 8 

756. Rufus King to John Adams. 1 

Boston 27. October. 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I intended to have written to you previously to my departure from New 
York. Mr. Jay has undoubtedly transmitted to you the late Acts of Con- 
gress permitting your return to America after the expiration of your com- 
mission to the English Court, and giving you the unequivocal thanks of 
the United States for the diligent, faithful, and able discharge of your 
various public duties since your residence in Europe. 2 No minister of 
Congress having before received such testimony of the public approbation, 
you will naturally suppose the truth, that the partizans of those ministers 
who have returned without any mark of public favor were not entirely 
satisfied with the ample vote of thanks in the present instance. This dis- 
tinction in my judgment constitutes the principal value of the vote, since 
it proves that the measure was not of course, but the effect of singular 
merit. 

Your last loan in Holland was approved and ratified ; 8 and as on your 
return you will probably take leave of the Hague as well as at London, 
Congress judged it proper that your delegation to the former, should termi- 
nate with your commission to the latter. There did not seem to be a dis- 
position in Congress to appoint a successor to either of these Courts at 
present ; Mr. Jefferson's commission is renewed for Versailles,* and I in- 
tend writing to Col Smith by this opportunity in reply to his last letter 
relative to the London Legation. 5 

the treaty in conjunction with the superintendent of Indian affairs in that department. 
The same committee, as directed, reported instructions for holding both the southern and 
the northern treaty. See no. 912, post. On Oct. 27 a further instruction to the governor of 
the western territory with regard to the northern treaty was adopted. 

8 This postscript, which is appended to the Letter-Book copy, is not in the letter 
sent to North Carolina. 

[756]* N. Y. Hist. Soc, King Papers (copy) ; Life of King, I. 261. 

2 See no. 749, note 5, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Oct. 11. Adams had written to Jay May 23 that, because of 
protested bills he had found it necessary to open a new loan in Holland, " without the 
explicit and particular orders of Congress", and enclosed two letters (May 15 and 18) 
from Messrs. Willinks and Staphorsts, bankers, on the subject (Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, II. 751-756). These letters were laid before Congress and referred to the 
board of treasury to report, and the board reported July 26. Jay's acknowledgment, July 
31, of Adams's communications is ibid., p. 756. On June 16 Adams wrote again, trans- 
mitting a translation of the Dutch contract for a million of guilders, and urged the im- 
portance of prompt ratification (ibid., pp. 787-792). On Aug. 30 Jay prepared to lay tins 
letter before Congress, but there was no quorum, and it was not until Sept. 20 that his 
report could be presented. Meanwhile, on Sept. 4, he so notified Adams (ibid., p. 792). On 
Sept. 28 the matter was referred to the secretary to report, and on Oct. 3 he wrote Adams 
that he hoped soon to obtain the ratification desired (ibid., p. 793). His report, dated 
Oct. 12 (ibid., p. 792), was laid before Congress the same day; but, on a motion by Dane 
and King, the ratification had taken place on the nth. The act of ratification was trans- 
mitted to Adams Oct. 16 (ibid., p. 796), and a duplicate Nov. 3 (ibid., p. 801). 

« See no. 749, <****• 

"When Adams, on Jan. 24. 1787 (Works, VIII. 421; Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783- 
1789, II. 691), wrote to Jay of his intention to return to the United States upon the 



October, 1787 669 

Some difficulties have heretofore taken place in an allowance to Mr. 
Dana for a private Secretary while at St. Petersburg ; I was very happy 
in effecting the customary allowance to Mr Dana on this point previously 
to my leaving Congress, and the more so as it will ease you of an expense 
incurred for your son while in Russia. 6 

Massachusetts, Pensylvania, and Connecticut have called conventions in 
their respective states to consider the report of the late general conven- 
tions. These are the only states whose Legislatures have been in session 
since the publication of the report. 7 



757. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. 1 

New York October 27, 1787. 
My dear friend, 

.... Major Sergeant delivered me the letter that you were pleased to 
write me on the 8th instant, by which I see that you supposed me to have 
been a Member of the late Convention. 2 I did early decline being a Mem- 
ber of that Body, because I was a Member of Congress, and the proposed 
plan stated, that Congress should rev[i]ew, if they approved, transmit 
the proposed Amendments to the Confederation, (for that was the Idea, 
and, indeed, the only idea, that the present federal plan admits of, or that 
the powers delegated to the Convention countenanced) to the 13 States 
for approbation and ratification. In this view of the business, it appeared 
to me an inconsistency that the same Men should, at N. York review their 
own doings at Philadelphia. And this opinion was fully verefied when 
the Members of Convention came to Congress in such numbers with their 
own plan, that the Votes of 3 States were Convention Votes, 2 others 
divided by Conventioners, and Conventioners mingled with many other 
States. It is Sir most obvious, that the Constitution proposed by the Con- 
vention could not have a dispassionate and impartial consideration in Con- 
gress, And indeed it had not. In my letter to you of the 5th instant, I sent 
you the amendments that I proposed in Congress ; 8 if they, with my letter, 
shd. have miscarried, our friend Mr. Gerry can furnish you with 
them. 4 .... 

expiration of his commission, he solicited the appointment of Col. William Stephens Smith, 
the secretary of legation, to the positon of charge d'affaires, and on Jan. 25 Smith wrote to 
King requesting his influence in behalf of the appointment {Life of King, I. 210). King 
probably alludes here to a later letter from Smith, not found in the work; mentioned; 
neither is King's letter to him Oct. 27, but Smith's reply to the latter, Jan. 1, 1788, is in 
Life of King, I. 309. Cf. nos. 641, 724, 749, ante. 

6 See the Journals, Oct. 13, 1786, and Oct. 2, 1787. Cf. no. 179, note 2, ante. 

7 A letter from King to General Knox, Oct. 28, on the results of the Convention, 
is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, XXI. 30. 

[757] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 456; Lee, Life 
of Richard Henry Lee, II. 81. 

2 Adams's letter of Oct. 8 is not in his Writings. His reply (Dec. 10) to this letter 
and that of Oct. 5 (no. 739, ante) is ibid., IV. 323. 

3 See nos. 734, 737, 738, 739, ante. 

4 This letter was transmitted by the hand of Elbridge Gerry. The omitted passages 
are a further discussion of Lee's attitude toward the Constitution. 



670 Continental Congress 

758. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

New York October 31st, 1787. 
Sir, 

.... When I had the honor to address your Excellency last from 
Philadelphia 2 it was not my intention to have taken a seat in Congress 
this year but as it was conceived important to have a full House on the 
Subject of the new plan of Government I was induced to take a seat; and 
have continued in Congress in expectation of receiving a small supply of 
Money and of having a Colleague for the next year. 

.... The sale of the Western lands is going on very well ; what is al- 
ready sold and applied for will amount [to] Seven Million dollars — and if 
North Carolina and Georgia should make such Cessions as might be 
expected, it is supposed there will be public lands enough to absorb the 
most, or perhaps the whole of the domestic debt." 

.... We have no dispatches by the last packet, but the news paper 
account of the commotions in Europe is so correspondent to the last official 
advices that I am inclined to consider it as a tolerable state of facts and 
enclose it for your Excellencys perusal.* as, in the course of writing I 
may insert things of a nature improper for public discussion I must re- 
quest your Excellency will please to communicate such parts, only, of my 
letters, as the public good may require 

759. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York November 3d, 1787. 
Sir, 

The Requisition for the present year has already been transmitted to 
the States by the Secretary of Congress ; 2 we, however, now do ourselves 
the honor to inclose it to your Excellency, together with a Report of the 
Treasury Board, and a Return of payments by the Several States to the 
30th of June, all which we beg the favor of you to lay before the General 
Assembly, for their more full information upon the Federal Resources. 

The report of the Treasury Board was proposed for the adoption of 
Congress as a Requisition, and the statements contained in it, form the 
foundation of the Act which has been agreed to ; but it was thought best 
to reverse the appropriations suggested by the Board, and by that means 
call for the amount required upon the new Requisition, in facilities instead 
of Specie, conceiving that the ability of the States to comply with the 
demand, would be encreased by the extension of the Latitude of accommo- 

[758] l N. H. State Papers, XXI. 837; Wingate, Life of Wingate, I. 213 (extracts). 

2 The letter, dated Sept. 18, is in N. H. State Papers, XXI. 836, and in Farrand, 
Records of the Federal Convention, III. 82. 
8 See nos. 747-749. 75 1, onte. 
4 See nos. 747-749, ante. 
[759] * Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Grayson, Madison, Carrington, and 
Henry Lee). 

2 See no. 746, ante. 



November, 1787 671 

dation. Upon the same Consideration the restrictions which were imposed 
upon the issues and payment of Indents, in the former Requisitions, are, 
by a Clause in this, repealed. 3 The way is now open for evidences of In- 
terest to be issued up to the end of 1786, and it is left to the States to 
obtain, and pay the balances now due upon their Respective quotas in such 
ways as to them shall seem expedient. Virginia is greatly in arrears in 
the Indents which have been called for upon the several Requisitions from 
September 1782 inclusive. For discharging these balances we beg leave 
to submit to the consideration of the Legislature, a mode different from 
that which has hitherto been pursued. Any observations upon the impolicy 
of the System by which Indents have been made Receiveable upon an equal 
footing with Specie, in Taxes, we conceive to be Unnecessary, as they 
must be evident to every one who has in any manner been connected with 
their Operation, they procure little or no Satisfaction to the public Credi- 
tor, while they enormously oppress the Laborious Taxpayer, and are pro- 
ductive of undue emolument to intermediate hands, who are not the objects 
of public provision, and who would be employed in more useful Occupa- 
tions did not the public create this Scene of Speculation for them. This 
being the case, a change of System is necessarily called for, and it only 
remains to be decided what that change shall be. The first object that 
presents itself in considering this subject is, justice to the public. Creditors, 
who have a right to expect their interest in full Specie Value ; and could 
Taxes be collected in Specie, commensurate to this demand, it would in our 
opinions, be the duty of the Public to collect the money and pay it to the 
Claimants ; this measure is however impracticable, nor is it material to a 
decision what other to adopt, to determine whether this impracti[ca]bility 
arises from the poverty of the people, the situation of our Commerce, or 
any other Cause. It is reduced to a Certainty, that in any operation the 
Creditor must find the public provision inadequate to his demand, and he 
must be satisfied to Negotiate his claim at a considerable Loss, or let it lay 
useless by him. it then behoves the public to make the best provision 
which the circumstances of the people will admit, and to open the best pos- 
sible ground of Negotiations, which may be embraced or Neglected by 
the Creditor at his own option, but should he determine to Negotiate at a 
loss, it is highly proper that the loss he sustains, should rather be turned 
to the common relief, than the emolument of the Collectors and a few 
other Individuals, upon these Considerations we beg leave to submit to 
the wisdom of the General Assembly, whether it would not be best to dis- 
card the mode of Collecting Indents in Taxes as has hitherto been done, 
and to lay as great a Tax as the people can reasonably pay in Specie, to 
be applied in the purchase of the Indents, upon the ground of Such a Tax 
the great Speculators would be ready to enter into Contracts for Supplying 
them at Certain prices, in addition to the prospect of Success in this Mea- 

3 See nos. 741, 744, 748, ante. The report of the board of treasury on the requisition 
for 1787 was laid before Congress Sept. 29 and, together with a motion of John Kean 
Oct. S, was referred to a committee, who reported Oct. 8. The committee offered a number 
of modifications of the treasury report, and the committee's report was in turn considerably 
altered in Congress (Oct. 8, 11). Concerning the matter of indents see especially no. 701, 
ante. 



672 Continental Congress 

sure, which must now be evident, we have to observe that the Repeal of 
the restrictions upon the Issues of Indents, will soon throw into the Mar- 
ket great sums of them, and as it is to be presumed that most of the States 
will Neglect to make proper provision for their Redemption, there must 
be a considerable fall in their Value. 

You will observe Sir, that for discharging our foreign demands, as well 
as the domestic expences of the Current year, Congress Rely upon a Sur- 
plusage in the former Requisitions, occasioned by many of the objects for 
which these Requisitions were made, being turned into the liquidated debt, 
and other Circumstances which appear in the Report of the Treasury 
Board; but as this surplusage exists altogether in the balances now re- 
maining due from the States, and the purposes for which it is appropriated 
are indispensible, it becomes absolutely Necessary that these balances be 
fully paid, our last payments in Europe have been effected by a New Loan 
of one Million of Guilders Negotiated by Mr Adams in Holland, but Con- 
gress from motives of Honor and Justice which must present themselves 
without further explanation have ordered that no farther Loans be Nego- 
tiated.* it remains therefore with the States to determine whether the 
Credit and administration of the Union, are to be Supported for another 
year, or abandoned. The 109,391 i$ths Dollars appropriated in the hands 
of the Commissioners of Loans in Holland, is the balance now remaining 
of the late Negotiation, but it amounts to but a Triffling part of the sum 
Necessary for foreign purposes. 

We also have the Honor to enclose to your Excellency the Ordinance for 
establishing a Temporary Government in the Western Territory, and pro- 
viding for its passage into State Governments. 5 a part of this plan depends 
upon the Accession of Virginia, to which we beg leave to call the atten- 
tion of the Legislature. The proposed arrangement of the Territory 
into three States we conceive to be much better than that which was form- 
erly made in Conformity to the Act of Cession. A Division of the Country 
into many Small States would effectually disappoint the design of Vir- 
ginia, that the inhabitants be admitted into the Federal Government, upon 
their becoming so numerous as to have reasonable pretentions to such 
admission, because it might, upon the whole, be very populous, and yet 
in no one of the described States, contain as many inhabitants as the 
smallest of the Original States, in this Situation it could not be expected, 
they would remain long contented, and the federal Government would be 
under the Necessity of suffering them to enter into other Alliances, or 
departing from the Stipulated terms of Admission. The proposed arrange- 
ment of the Territory into three States will avoid these difficulties, with- 
out any eventual inconvenience, from the Reduction of the Number, in- 
deed, if it is thought Material to the interest of the Southern States, that 
their Scale be Strengthened by an accession in this quarter, that object 
will be better secured by the New, than the old plan, because upon the 

* See no. 756, note 3, ante. 

8 The ordinance of July 13. See no. 696, note 3, ante. 



November, 1787 673 

former there may be an early admission of a State, but upon the latter 
such an event must be long, or perhaps forever, postponed. 6 

We are happy in being able to present to the View of your Excellency 
and the Legislature a prospect of an early and considerable reduction of 
the domestic debt by Sales of Western Territory. Seven Ranges of Town- 
ships have been surveyed agreeably to the Ordinance of the 20th of May 
1785, containing upwards of one Million of Acres, about one hundred and 
Twenty thousand Whereof have been sold for some what more than the 
average price of one dollar per Acre in public securities, these Ranges 
extend west from the place of beginning directed in the Ordinance nearly 
down to Muskingum. But a mode of Sale has lately presented itself which 
promises a more Rapid progress, while it will exempt the United States 
from the greatest part of the expence that would attend a strict pursuance 
of the Ordinance, without Materially departing from it. Companies of 
Adventurers have come forward with propositions for large Tracts, and 
a Contract is actually made with Messrs. Sargent and Cutler, in behalf 
of a considerable Company from the Eastern States, for all the Country 
between the Seventh Range of Townships, and Sciota, from the Ohio 
North, as far as a due West line to be extended from the Northern 
boundary of the Tenth Township, the whole of this tract is supposed to 
contain about five Millions of Acres. The terms are, that the United 
States, shall at the public expence, Survey and mark the external bound- 
aries, and ascertain the Contents of the Tract, the Company to lay it out, 
at their own expence, into Townships and Sections, agreeably to the Ordi- 
nance, subject to the reserves therein described, except that one of the 
Sections for future Sale shall be granted forever for the purposes of 
Religion, and that two Complete Townships shall be granted forever for 
the purposes of an University. All other Lands within the Tract, to be 
paid for, without any abatement whatever for bad Land, at the price of 
two thirds of a dollar per Acre in public Securities, excluding interest, 
half a million of dollars to be paid upon closing the Contract, and posses- 
sion taken so far as that payment will cover; and afterwards payment and 
Occupancy to go on, pari passu, at certain periods, under Certain Stipula- 
tions of reciprocal assurance. Army Rights for Military bounties are 
made Receivable in payment of the purchase money, in the proportion of 
one Seventh part, but as Lands are Set apart and to be Surveyed, for 
Satisfying these Bounties, more to the advantage of the Claimants, it is 
not likely that many of these Rights will be rendered in discharge of this 
debt. 

Another offer is made by Judge Symmes and his associates from New- 
Jersey, for about two and an half Millions between the little and great 
Miami's, upon the same terms. Congress have Authorised the Treasury 
Board to close with this proposition, but it is not yet compleated ; upon 
these two Contracts being carried into full effect they will take up, as may 
be seen by the Statement inclosed, upwards of three Millions and an half 

6 Cf. no. 748, ante. 



674 Continental Congress 

of dollars, even upon a supposition that the full proportion receiveable 
in Bounty Rights, be actually rendered. Two other propositions have 
been made, whereupon Congress have given the Treasury Board a general 
Authority to sell by Contract ; provided that no tract so disposed of shall 
contain less than one Million of Acres, making the Terms of Sargent and 
Cutlers purchase the ground, with deviations as to the grants for Religion, 
and an University, unless the Contract be for an equal quantity. This mode 
of Sale is calculated to relieve the United States of much expence, and 
present Appearances are, that our people will soon feel the domestic debt 
considerably lightened, by it. 7 

This great fund for the extinguishment of the National debt, has lately 
received a probable augmentation, by a Cession from South Carolina of 
a Tract that will, it is supposed, be eventually within the limits of that 
State, containing about half a Million of Acres on the Missisippi, upon 
running the lines lately stipulated in the adjustment of her disputes with 
Georgia. 8 

The Requisitions upon North Carolina and Georgia for liberal Ces- 
sions of Territory have Recently been repeated by Congress in terms so 
pressing that we hope these States will not persevere in withholding those 
Acts of Justice. 8 

In pursuance of our instructions we have called the attention of Con- 
gress to the Subject of the Barbary piracies, and a Measure for forming a 
Confederacy with some of the European powers, who may be disposed to 
act against them, has been contemplated; but the desperate prospect of 
the United States being enabled to comply with their Stipulations in such 
a Confederacy, has obliged Congress to decline any Overtures towards this 
desirable object. We cannot however forbear to express our Regret, that 
a measure which appears so practicable, which would be so honorable to 
the Union, and in which the States are so materially interested, should be 

T Cf. nos. 742, 743, 747-749, ante, 833, post. The following statement of the Cutler 
and Sargent contract and the Symmes contract was enclosed with the delegates' letter : 

Statement of Sargent and Cutlers Contract 

Acres 
Contents of the Tract about 5,000000 

deduct for Reserves for future Sales and grants, about 1/7U1 p't 71 1-'^5 
deduct for proportion of Military Rights l/7th 714285 



1428570 
3S7I430 

3571430 Acres at 2/3ds dol's 2380953 J 

Symes's Contract 
Contents of the Tract about 2,500000 

deduct for future Sales and grants i/7th p't 357*42 

ditto for Mil. R'ts 357142 

714284 



at 2/3ds of a dol. 1785716 

1100477s 
Amount of both Contracts in dol's 357'430$ 

8 Journals, Aug. 9. 

9 Journals, Aug. 20. See no. 751, ante. 



November, 1787 675 

Neglected because the Necessary Contributions for its Support cannot be 
relied upon. 10 

The Subject of the great accounts of the Union has this year received 
its accustomed Revision, and is considerably improved. We have the honor 
to inclose to your Excellency an Ordinance of the 7th of May last for 
the Completion of this Business, and beg the favor of you to lay it before 
the General Assembly. The reduced State of Congress in the latter part 
of the year has prevented the election of the three Superior Commis- 
sioners, but as the Subordinate parts of the plan is now in Operation in 
the districts, the elections may be made by the New Congress in time for 
every useful purpose. 11 

We beg leave to call the attention of the Legislature to the Great Bal- 
ance which stands against the State in the Treasury Books, on account of 
the old paper emissions, this Balance is nearly twenty Six Millions of 
dollars. 12 it is for the Legislature to determine upon the most eligible 
mode of discharging it, but could funds be provided for obtaining it by 
purchase we apprehend it could be got at a much lower rate, than that at 
which, upon a final settlement of the Accounts, it will be adjusted. Large 
sums of this money are in the hands of Individuals in the Eastern States, 
who would doubtless be disposed to sell ; we, however have no principles 
on which to hazard an Opinion upon the demands that would .be made, 
by the holders, for it. 

In pursuance of the enclosed Resolution of the 21st of April last a Con- 
tract has been made for a Coinage of Copper, from which some aid will 
result to the Resources of the United States, and we beg leave to call the 
attention of the Legislature to the Necessity of passing Laws for preven- 
tion of Counterfeits. 13 



760. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

New York November 7th 1787. 
Sir, 

For the Satisfaction of my own mind on the subject, I have procured 
a statement of the National debt (as far as it can be at present ascer- 
tained) in one view; and it being, perhaps, more particular than any 
one heretofore made out, I take the liberty to enclose it, with the papers 

*° See the Journals, July 27, and nos. 707 (note 3), 716 (note 6), ante. 

11 See no. 637, note 4, ante, and no. 762, post. 

12 Carrington wrote to the governor Nov. 5 : " upon looking this morning at the 
rough draft from which the above letter was copied, I find that a considerable error has 
happened in the paragraph respecting the old emissions of paper money, the balance against 
the state on the T. Books is nearly Twenty Six Millions of dollars, in our letter only Six is 
written, permit me Sir, to request the favor of you to Correct the paragraph before you 
transmit the letter to the Assembly" (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State 
Papers, IV. 354). The letter of Nov. 3 as copied in Richmond has, correctly, twenty-six 
millions. 

13 See no. 645, note 5, ante ; also the Journals, July 4, 6, 24, 26, Oct. 8. 
[760] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention. 



C76 Continental Congress 

of the day; and beg leave to observe (as I omitted it in my last) that 
there is an error in the printed Schedule of the french and Dutch Loans — 
viz: Septr. 3d 1787, 900.000 Liv's carried out 666,666.60 dollars. 2 

The most important news we have here is from Georgia; where they 
are under the greatest apprehensions of an open war with the Creek Na- 
tion, which, according to the account of the Georgia delegates, consists of 
Seven or Eight thousand fighting men ; but, be that as it may, they have 
had several skirmishes, and the Indians preperation for war is so alarm- 
ing to the State that they have thought proper to order all the Slaves 
upwards of sixteen years of age, within sixteen miles of Savanna, to be 
employed in fortifying that town. 8 How these things will end time must 
reveal, but if we are to be much longer unblessed with an efficient Na- 
tional Government, destitute of funds and without public Credit, either 
at home or abroad, I fear we shall become contemptable even in the eyes of 
savages themselves. I understand that the Legislature of Virginia has 
recommended a convention, to take into consideration the new plan of 
Government ; but not to assemble untill may next, and then to adopt it as 
it is or make alterations, as they may think proper, an alteration respect- 
ing the power of regulating Commerce and the construction of the Senate, 
is their great object. How they will conduct the business of the new 
Constitution here is difficult to foresee : One thing, however, is observeable, 
that they are remarkably attentive to Military discipline — they have an 
experienced officer with an handsom salary, constantly employed in train- 
ing their Militia, and within this City I am informed there is between 
seven and eight hundred men enrolled in what they call independent Com- 
panies, they are in compleat uniform and well disciplined, being com- 
manded, almost entirely, by Old Continental Officers, these men go up, 
on Sundays, to the Solemn Temple consecrated to the GOD of peace, with 
bold presumptuous steps, Martial music, Swords and guns as though they 
were determined to take Heaven by force and arms. I form no opinion 
of the meaning of these things but submit it to those who are more skilled 
in the Science of war, to determine. 

761. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Nov. 10, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Chevalier Jones has been detained much longer in America 
than he expected at his arrival, owing to a deal of perplexity he has met 
with in the adjustment of his negotiations in France, the Treasury Board 
had his papers upwards of two months before they reported, they then 
proposed that the division which had been made of the prize money, by 
the Court of France, should be reversed as it respected the Commanders of 
the Bon hommc Richard, and the Alliance, and that they should share upon 

1 See no. 826, post. 

*Cf. nos. 741. 744. 747. 749, 755. ante. 
[761] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 369 
(part). 



November, 1787 677 

the common mass of the two ships, instead of each taking upon the mass of 
his own. this was however disagreed to by Congress, and the division by 
the court of France confirmed, they also proposed that he should be 
ordered immediately, to pay up the balance retained by him when he made 
a payment to you, only deducting 5 p Cent for Com. this was also dis- 
agreed to, and he is allowed still to retain that balance until some future 
decision shall be made — some propositions were made which he will shew 
you with the yeas and nays, from which their results a decided sense of 
Congress, that he ought to retain so much money on some principle, but 
it could not be agreed whether it should be paid out of the public treasury 
or deducted from the property recovered. I own that, to me, it appeared 
probable that the money was necessarily expended, and that it ought to 
be taken from the property of those in whose service the expence was 
incurred, whatever might have been the obligations of the Court of 
France to pay the money, a long and expensive [period?] of attendance 
was nevertheless necessary to obtain it, and, since it had before been tried 
by Mr. Barclay without success, it is likely that personal considerations, 
which applied to Jones alone ensured the success he has met with. 2 

You will receive some Resolutions upon the Denmark business which 
reverse those which formerly established the Chevalier Jones as the agent, 
this was occasioned by several considerations, by some Gentlemen it was 
thought that the application to that Court involved a complaint of a breach 
of the Laws of nations, which required an immediate diplomatic commis- 
sion, and it having been suggested by the Board of Treasury that the 
security formerly given by Mr. Jones was somewhat impaired by a reduc- 
tion of the property of those who were bound with him, it was thought 
by others that in justice to the people concerned, he ought to be called upon 
for additional security, upon the whole it was unanimously thought best 
to shift the ground upon which the business stood leaving the eventual 
further employment of the Chevalier to you, who must be the best ac- 
quainted with his conduct. I find that this brave, and in my mind, honest, 
man has his enemies, these may represent him to you in an injurious light, 
and the statement I make is just intended to shew you how he really stands 
with Congress, it is expected that you will employ him if, you, do not 
think him unworthy of being trusted in the business which is to be done, 
in candor however I must tell you that you will be held accountable for 
whatever money may be received, but send who you will, I suppose you 
may draw the money through whatever channel you please so as to keep 
it out of the hands of the agent, should you not chuse entirely to hazard 
it in his hands. 3 We have just received notice from Kentucky that, at a 

2 See the Journals, July 20, Sept. 29, Oct. 9, 11, 16, 1787. Cf. ibid., June 7, 1786. 
On Nov. 18, 1782, Thomas Barclay was appointed commissioner to settle the accounts 
of the United States in Europe, and among those which he appears to have endeavored to 
adjust were the accounts arising out of the operations of the Alliance and the Bon Homme 
Richard. See, for instance, Franklin to Livingston July 22, 1783, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., VI. 580, and John Paul Jones to Jefferson July 4, 1786, in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, HI. 690. 

3 See the Journals, July 20, Sept. 29, Oct. 8, 9, 25 ; also nos. 763, 834, post. Fol- 
lowing the designation, Nov. 1, 1783, of John Paul Jones as agent for the collection of 
prize money due in Europe, there was much correspondence on the subject, which can, 



678 Continental Congress 

Convention held for the purpose, the people of that district have deter- 
mined upon their separation from Virga. in conformity to the Act of 
Fall 1785, and a request is made to Congress for their admission, as a new 
State into the confederation. 4 



762. William Grayson to William Short. 1 

By favor of Commodore Jones. 

N York Nov. 10th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 With respect to my own sentiments I own I have important 
objections : In the first place I think liberty a thing of too much importance 
to be trusted on the ground of implication : it should rest on principles 
expressed in the clearest and most unequivocal manner, a bill of rights 
ought then to have preceded, tryals by jury should have been expressly 
reserved in Civil as well as Criminal cases. 

The press ought to have been declared free. I think the foederal Courts 
in the different states wrong. One Court at the session of Congress with 
appellative jurisdiction in the cases mentioned in the proposed constitution 
would have been sufficient. 

The representation in the Senate ought to have been in the same pro- 
portion as the lower house, except in a few cases merely of a foederal 
nature where the little States should be armed with a repulsive quality to 
preserve their own existence. 

The power of regulating commerce by a bare majority and that of 
taxing will ruin the Southern States; and the proposed method of making 
treaties, ie, by two thirds of the Senators present will be the means of 
losing the Missisippi forever: Indeed we have had great difficulty to 
prevent it from destruction for two years past. 

In these and several other instances which I could enumerate, I think 
the generarility [jtc] will have too much power, but there are points where 
I don't think they have power enough : In order to face foreign pow 
properly and to preserve their treaties and their faith with them, they 
should have had a negative upon the State laws with sev'l other incidental 
powers. With't this I am satisfied the new government if adopted will 
in a year or two be as contemptible as the present. Upon the whole I look 
upon the new system as a most ridiculous piece of business — something 
(entre nouc) like the legs of Nebuchadnezar's image: It seems to have 
been formed by jumbling or compressing a number of ideas together, 

for the most part, be readily traced through Jones's correspondence in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
178 3-1789, III. The board of treasury wrote to Jefferson Nov. 10 respecting John Paul 
Jones and other matters financial (Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers), and Jefferson 
replied Feb. 7, 1788, returning to the subject May 1 (ibid.). 

* Cf. no. 762, post. The address from Kentucky was read in Congress Feb. 29, 1788. 
See the note in the Journals of that day ; also nos. 803-805, post. 
[76a] 1 Library of Congress, Papers of William Short, III. 516. 

2 The omitted part of the letter is concerned with sentiments in various states 
toward the Constitution. 



November, 1/8/ 679 

something like the manner in which poems were made in Swift's flying 
Island. However bad as it is, I believe it will be crammed down our 
throats rough and smooth with all it's imperfections: the temper of 
America is changed beyond conception since you were here, and I believe 
they were ready to swallow almost any thing : 3 

Mr. Adams has lately been recalled according to his request, and no 
provision is made for a successor : indeed according to present appearance 
not even a Charge or agent will be left there — The indisposition of some 
States to thank him had for the moment an injurious effect on the re- 
appointment of Mr. Jefferson : however the thing was got over, and Mr. 
Adams returns with the intire approbation of Congress. 4 In general I 
think (between you and me) he and his book are thought of nearly in 
the same manner in this country. 5 Nobody is yet appointed to Holland ; 
though Mr. V. B. 6 feels very uncomfortable on that head — Mr. Gardoqui 
continues here, but has done nothing, and matters appear at a greater 
distance than ever. 7 

Since the Convention rose Congress have attended a little to business, 
and have done something for the credit of the Nation : They have either 
made or are about making contracts for Western territory which if com- 
plied with will have for their object the extinguishment of near six Million 
of doll's of the domestic debt : I heartily wish the rage for terra firma may 
continue here, and that it may also extend itself to Europe. I have often 
thought something might be done in that quarter, and have frequently 
though in vain suggested the idea to that caput mortuum of vitriol 
Congress? They have also done something relative to the settlemt. of 
the accounts of the different States : an Ordnance is passed constituting 
a kind of high Court of Chan[ce]ry with considerable powers to decide 
on them in the last resort : The Comm'rs however are not yet appointed. 9 
I am now on the point of leaving this my time by the prest. constitution 
being expired but shall continue to write you from Virga. the delegates 

8 Cf. nos. 737, 739, 743, 74s, 757, ante. David Ramsay wrote to Dr. Benjamin Rush 
from Charleston Nov. 10: I am ready and willing to adopt the constitution without any 
alteration but still think objections might be obviated if the first State convention after ac- 
cepting in its present form would nevertheless express their approbation of some altera- 
tions being made on the condition that Congress and the other States concurred with them. 
I think this would cause no delay nor would it endanger the acceptance of the constitution 
.... The necessity of another convention would be obviated. I would not make these 
alterations conditions of acceptance : I would rather trust to the mode of alteration pro- 
posed in it than hazard or even delay the acceptance of the proposed plan. I think it ought 
to be matter of joy to every good citizen that so excellent a form of government has passed 
the convention" (Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS.). 

4 Cf. nos. 749, 756, ante. 

6 Adams's Defence of the Constitutions of the United States (London, 1787). 
See Adams to Warren Jan. 9, and Warren to Adams May 18, in Warren- Adams Letters, 
II. 280, 291 ; Richard Henry Lee to Adams Sept. 5, in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 433 ; Jef- 
erson to Adams Feb. 6, 23, Adams to Jefferson Mar. 1, Aug. 25, Oct. 28, Jay to Adams July 
25, in Adams's Works, VIII. 430, 432, 433, 445, 446, 457 ; W. S. Smith to Rufus King Jan. 
1, 1788, in Life of King, I. 309; King to Theophilus Parsons Feb. 20, ibid., p. 320; and 
Jefferson to Adams Sept. 28, in Writings, IV. 454. 

6 Van Berckel, minister of the Netherlands. 

7 The allusion is to the Mississippi question. 

8 Cf. no. 748, ante. 

9 Cf. no. 759, ante. 



680 Continental Congress 

for our State for the next year are already appointed they are Maddisson, 
Carrington[,] Hary Lee [,] Brown of the Senate and Cyrus Griffin: 
though I dont expect there will be a Congress till Aprill or May next if 
then: as It is supposed the States who are for the new Constitution will 
be very slow in sending on their members. 

NB. Yesterday we had information that Kentucki had had a Conven- 
tion which have adopted the idea of independance on the terms proposed 
by Virga. the Delegates are instructed to effect her admission in the 
Union. 10 .... 

Inclosed are the papers of the day. you are not [to] suppose I mean 
to reflect on the members of the Convention : I highly respect the chief 
of them : but they could not act otherwise so circumstanced. 

763. Edward Carrington to William Short. 1 

New York Nov. ii, 1787. 
My dear Sir, 

Mine of yesterday to Mr. Jefferson inclosing sundry news papers con- 
tained the best information I was then possessed of respecting the new 
plan of government, but I am this morning informed that Mr. E. Gerry 
one of the deputies from Massachusetts in the late Grand Convention, 
and who refused to sign the project, has submitted his objections to tin- 
legislature of his State in such terms as to work some probable Mischief. 
what will be the extent is not known, but the circumstance occasions alarm 
to the Friends of the measure, as my views are not to give to Mr. Jeffer- 
son and yourself my own wishes upon this business, but the best possible 
information how it is likely to be received in the States, I think it essential 
that this event be communicated with the intillegence that my other letters 
contain. You will therefore be good enough to give Mr. Jefferson a 
sight of this letter. 2 

The* Chevalier Jones has met with inconvenience here from his old 
Friend Landais, who persists in his endeavour to dishonor him, but want- 
ing the necessary boldness to face him, he has resorted to falshood for 

10 See no. 761, note 4, ante. 
[763]! Hist. Soc. of Pa.. Dreer Coll.. M. O. C. 

8 See no. 744, note 2, ante. Concerning the reception accorded to Gerry by the 
Massachusetts legislature see Madison to Washington Nov. 18 (Writings, V. 53) With 
regard to Gerry and the Massachusetts convention see his letters of Dec. 26, 1787, Jan. 
28, Feb. [ ], 1788 (ibid., pp. 78, 92, 94) ; also King to Madison Jan. 16, 20, 23, in Life of 
King, I. 313, 314, 316. In a letter to John Wendell Nov. 16, listed in Stan. V. Henkels, 
Catalogue, no. 731, item 203, a copy of which was at one time in possession of W. R. 
Benjamin of New York, Gerry remarks : " If the new constitution should be adopted, I 
shall think it my duty to support it. But as it now stands, I think it neither consistent with 
the principals of the Revolution, or of the Constitutions of the several states, and it is 
condemned by the best writers on free Governments. Indeed, the Eastern States will soon 
rebel against it, for it is not a Government adapted to their genius, habits, or aversion to 
arbitrary powers. But if they are of a different opinion. I have no objection to their 
trying on the Federal chains, for such I am persuaded, they will find the bonds of this 
constitution eventually to be. This entre nous." A penciled memorandum says, " This 
letter had better not be printed ". This cautionary remark may not have been appended 
by Gerry to the original letter, but by the author of his Life, J. T. Austin. A letter from 
the Virginia delegates to the governor Nov. 22, relating at some length the recent 1 
of European affairs, is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



November, 1/8/ 681 

the accomplishment of his views, he circulated one day in the Coffee 
House that he had Spit in the Chevaliers face with such confidence that 
it was believed for several days before he (the Chevalier) heard of it. 
this however has been so well contradicted as to remove every bad effect 
from the liberal minded, the Chevalier will explain the whole to you 
and it will be enough for me to say that he cannot give it a fairer appear- 
ance than it really bears here. 3 the vessel is about to sail and I cannot be 
more full. 

P. S. the enclosed paper contains Gerry's objections 

764. James White to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell). 1 

New-York 13th Novr. 1787. 
Sir, 

Having reed, the proceeds of your warrant on the treasury for part 
of my salary during my service in congress for the year now commenc- 
ing ; 2 I thought it an attention to the duty to give an early attendance : 
accordingly, I was here by the expiration of the late foederal year. 

Perhaps it may be proper to mention to your Excellency, that as no 
official information has been given to congress, by our state, .of what 
appointment she has made in her delegation for this year; the secretary 
urges me to request that the necessary credentials be transmitted by the 
first convenient opportunity. 3 As yet no Congress has been formed; So. 
Carolina alone being present. 4 

While I am writing to your Excellency at a time that all minds, and 
all conversations are turned towards the interesting question of changing 
the foederal system it may be expected from every one who is honored 
with the public confidence to shew some attention to that subject. But the 
gentlemen of the late delegation are so lately returned, as are also those 
who assisted at the convention, that I conceive it unnecessary to be very 
particular. Yet, as those who have been the most conversant with the 
subject appear to me to be the most convinced of the necessity of an 
effecient foederal government; I feel myself disposed to remark, that 
" no system could be framed which a spirit of doubt, and jealousy, might 
not conceive to be fraught with danger : that this over-cautious temper 
may be pushed to excess, I think I may be excused if I cite our present 
confederation in evidence ". I must in candor confess, that I have re- 
gretted that the proposed consti[tu]tion was not more explicit with respect 
to several essentials : but the great clamor is, that no express provision 
is made for the tryal by jury, and liberty of the press ; things so inter- 
woven with our political, or legal ideas, that I conceive the sacred immut- 

8 See no. 761, ante. 
[764]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 See Caswell to White June 4, in N. C. State Recs., XX. 715, and no. 667, ante. 

3 According to the record in the Journals, White attended Nov. 6 and presented 
his credentials Nov. 10. 

4 Both South Carolina and Georgia are recorded as being represented Nov. 5. Cj. 
no. 766, post. 



682 Continental Congress 

ability of these rights to be such, as never to have occurred as questionable 
objects to the convention. And can it indeed be supposed, that three 
distinct branches, originating from, and returning to the people, will 
combine to invade these inviolable first principles ? Or would they expect 
to do it with impunity? The apprehension wears too pusilanimous a 
complexion. Whatever may be our wish in theory, we find in practice, 
by our own example, that States in confederacy, like individuals in 
society, must part with some of their privileges for the preservation of 
the rest. In proof of which, it cannot be denied that, for want of attention 
to, or knowledge of that maxim, these States are now tottering on the 
brink of anarchy. 5 



765. James White to James Hogg. 1 

New York, [November] 17th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I applyed to the Secretary of Congress respecting Mr. Burke's attend- 
ance, according to your request. He referred me to the journals, and 
indeed, turned to them himself as being familiar in the different passages 
therein. He marked the dates on a bit of paper and I have sent it to you 
as he wrote it. I mentioned a certificate thereof, in form, to him, but he 
declined it, alleging the evidence of the printed journal was sufficient. 2 

Any further commands you may have while I am here, I shall with 
much pleasure attend to. 

By way of news, it is said the Prussians are likely to meet with some 
work in reinstating the stadholder, as a body of French troops are on 
their way to support the patriotic party. 

If it is anywise interesting to you to hear, we expect a French minister 
will be added to the Consul of that nation ; accordingly a count de Motier 
will shortly come over. 8 

B An endorsement on White's letter indicates that it was received Nov. 26 and 
answered Nov. 30. On Nov. 30 John B. Ashe, late delegate from North Carolina, rendered 
his bill for attendance in Congress. His statement is listed in Stan. V. Henkels, Catalogue, 
no. 1074, part III., item ft, 
[765] » N. C. State Recs., XX. 790. 

2 The inquiry was with regard to the attendance of Thomas Burke, 1777-1781. 

8 The information that the Comte de Moustier was coming as minister of France to 
the United States was first received through Jefferson's letter to Jay Sept. 19 (Dipt. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 86), or Adams's letter to Jay Sept. 22 (ibid., II. 804). 
ceived at or about the same time. On Oct. 8 Jefferson wrote to Jay by the hand of 
Moustier, and on the following day addressed a note to Moustier on the subject of his 
mission (ibid., pp. 98, 99). See also Jefferson to Adams Sept. 28 (ibid., p. 93, and Writ' 
ings, IV. 454), and to Carmichael Sept. 25 (ibid., IV. 449). On Oct. 8 Jefferson also 
wrote to Madison by the hand of Moustier (see no. 794, post). To Randolph Madison 
wrote Nov. 18, " The Count de Moustier is appointed to the U. States and may shortly be 
expected " (Writings, V. 58). Concerning European news see nos. 768, 772, 775, 783, post. 



November, 1787 683 

766. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

New York Novr. 18, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

The intelligenece by the packet so far as I have collected it, is contained 
in the gazette of yesterday. 2 

.... Virginia is the only State represented as yet. When a Congress 
will be formed is altogether uncertain. It is not very improbable I think 
that the interregnum may continue throughout the winter. 3 

767. Nicholas Gilman to William Irvine. 1 

New York November 20th 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 Of Congress there is present — Massachusetts, New Jersey, 
Virginia and South Carolina and from New Hamp're your humble 
servant, from North Carolina Mr. White and from Georgia Mr. Baldwin. 
I expect a Colleague in a few days. Dr. Johnson informs me that delegates 
of Connecticut* will attend so that if Pennsylvania comes on we may 
have a Congress at once. 3 I am very happy to hear you are in the delega- 
tion and promise myself the pleasure of seeing you soon in New York. 

768. Samuel Alleyne Otis to James Warren. 1 

New York, 27 Nov. 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Your next probable question will be how go you on in Congress ; 
To which I reply there is no Congress. Nor like to be before Xmas. New 
hamshire Mr. Gilman, Massachusetts is represented, Connecticut have 
chosen but not here, R Island dont chuse until the next month, N Jersey 
have no acct. of, Pensilvania have chosen and only one member G Arm- 
strong present, Maryland No Members here, Virginia represented by 

[766] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., Madison Papers; Writings, 
V. 53 ; Letters, I. 360. 

2 Madison may refer to the New York Daily Advertiser of Nov. 16, which an- 
nounces the arrival of the French packet, without the Comte de Moustier, who was ex- 
pected ; but the issue of Nov. 17 also contains some European news. 

3 Similarly Madison wrote to Randolph the same day : " I do not find that a 
single State is represented except Virginia, and it seems very uncertain when a Congress 
will be made. There are individual members present from several States ; and the atten- 
dance of this and neighbouring States may, I suppose, be obtained when it will produce a 
quorum" (Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 56; Papers, II. 564; 
Elliot, Debates, V. 568). On Nov. 20 Madison wrote to Washington, " Not more than two 
or three States are yet convened. The prospect of a quorum during the winter continues 
precarious" (Writings, V. 59). Writing to Randolph again Dec. 2 he said: "We have 
not more than two or three states attending. It is altogether conjectural when the defi- 
ciency of a quorum will be made up " (ibid., p. 60). To Archibald Stuart he wrote Nov. 25, 
"We have no Congress yet" (Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1011, item 306). Cf. nos. 762, 764, 
ante, 767-769, 77*, 772. 774, 775, 779, 794, post. 

[767] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C. ; ibid., Irvine Papers, IV. 105 (copy) ; 
Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXIX. 248. 

2 The omitted part of the letter relates to the prospects for the ratification of 
the Constitution, particularly in New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. 
8 See no. 766, note 3, ante. 
[768] x Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLV. 479. 

50 



684 Continental Congress 

Mr. Carrington, and Mr. Maddison, Delaware N and S Carolina and 
Georgia not represented. 2 Indeed I think some states either from a zeal 
for New Government, Or indifferent about a larger Confederation upon 
any plan, voluntarily negle[c]t sending on their Members — but this upon 
every principle is wrong. If the confederation ceases, puissant as any 
state may feel itself, I think its independence is at an end. If they prefer 
the Confederation upon the old, or rather present plan, they certainly 
ought to keep up their representation, And if they are zealous for the 
new plan, They ought to send their delegates to prepare the way, and I 
had like to have said make the paths straight before it. But I have no 
expectation of a speedy adoption of the New System 

I have conversed only partially with the Treasury Board upon your 
accounts, and think however no time is lost, and rely upon my attention 
as opportunity offers. 8 

The expectation here is of a war between France and England, but 
their immence debt and deranged finances make me doubtful, nor do I 
think great advantages will result to America should it take place. 4 .... 

769. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

c . November 28th, 1787. 

cur, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed, 
two setts of the Journals of Congress for last year, and two Copies of the 
continuation from the 20th September to the first Monday of the present 
month to compleat those already sent. 

I am sorry to inform you that a sufficient number of states have not 
yet assembled to proceed to business and that your state is one of those 
unrepresented. 

I am sensible the attention of the public is principally turned to the New 
Constitution proposed by the late Convention ; but when your Excellency 
considers the situation of affairs both abroad and at home, that the flames 
of War seem to be kindling in Europe, and may reach our borders; that 
our peace with the Western and Southern Indians is in a very precarious 
situation and our frontier settlements in imminent danger ; and when y< >u 
are further informed that a public Minister is daily expected to arrive 
here from France, I humbly hope your Excellency will agree with me in 
opinion that the honor and the Interest of the Confederacy require a 
speedy and constant representation in Congress; and that you will use 
your endeavours to forward Delegates from your state as speedily as 
possible. 2 

2 Cf. no. 766, note 3, ante. 

8 See no. 348, note 2, ante. As long ago as Feb. 18, 1785, the board of treasury 
had been instructed to report on Warren's account, but appears not to have done so. 

* Both Jefferson and Adams, in their letters of Sept. 19 and 22, respectively (see 
no. 765, note 3. ante), indicate the probability of war. Cf. no. 772, post. 

[769] 1 Pa. State Lib., P. P., CXL.; N. Y. State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 5010; Md. 
Hist. Soc., Red Book, XXXI. 25; Ga. Arch.; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 137; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 214; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 506. 

2 The Letter-Book copy shows that, in the letters to the states of Massachusetts, 
New Jersey, Virginia, and South Carolina, the clause, " and that your state is one of 



December, 1787 685 

770. William Samuel Johnson to Samuel William Johnson. 1 

New York 29th November 1787. 
My Dear Son, 

.... Hardly had I arrived here before I was informed that I had 
been Elected a Member of the State Convention of Connecticut which is 
to meet at Hartford early in Jan'ry to decide upon the new Constitution, 
and the Trustees of the College think it of so much consequence that 
they wish me to attend it, notwithstanding the prejudice it may be of 
to their affairs, so that you see I cannot yet disengage myself from 
Politicks 

771. Dyre Kearny to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

Dover, December 1st, 1787. 
Sir, 

Under the Idea that from the present peculiar State of the Union, a 
Congress will be assembled this Year sooner than usual, I have the honor 
of addressing you to request information of what States are now attendant 
at New York. 

I find by the Papers that most of the States have proceeded to the 
respective Appointments of their Delegates as usual. Among others Our 
Legislature in the early part of last Month appointed Mr.. Mitchell 
Mr. Grantham and myself. 

As tis neither my Wish nor intention to proceed to New York till there 
be either a Congress formed or a probability of Speedy One Upon the 
Arrival of our State, I have to request you would notify me when Our 
Attendance may become necessary. 2 A Line in immediate answer on 
this Subject, will much gratify me. You will be good enough to address 
to me at Dover to the care of Jacob Broom Esqr. Wilmington who will 
forward it to me. 

772. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Deer. 9th, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 We have two or three States only yet met for Cong's. As 
many more can be called in when their attendance will make a quorum. 
It continues to be problematical whether the interregnum will not be 
spun out through the winter. 3 

those inrepresented ", was omitted, otherwise an identical letter was sent to each of the 
states. Governor Smallwood of Maryland transmitted the letter to the assembly Dec. 10 
(Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXXI. 24). Governor Johnston of North Carolina replied 
Dec. 29 that he would urge the delegates to attend (N. C. State Recs., XX. 791). 

[770] x Conn. Hist. Soc, W. S. Johnson Papers (addressed, " Samuel William Johnson 
Esqr. St. George's Bermuda"). 

[77I] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78., vol. XIII., f. 637. 
2 See nos. 762, 764, 766-769, ante, 772, 774, 775, 779, 794, post. 

[772] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 62; Letters, I. 362. 

2 One part of this letter is in reply to a letter from Jefferson Sept. 17 (Library of 
Congress, Madison Papers) ; a larger part pertains to proceedings and attitudes in 
various states with regard to the Constitution. 

3 Cf. no. 771, note 2, ante. 



686 Continental Congress 

We remain in great uncertainty here with regard to a war in Europe. 
Reports and suspicions are strongly on the side of one. Such an event 
may be considered in various relations to this Country. It is pretty certain 
I think that if the present lax state of our General Government should 
continue, we shall not only lose certain capital advantages which might be 
drawn from it; but be in danger of being plunged into difficulties, which 
may have a very serious effect on our future fortunes.* 

772>- Charles Thomson to Alexander Contee Hanson. 1 

New York Deer. 10, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have this moment reed, a letter from you without date, but which I 
find by the post mark was put into the Office at Annapolis the second of 
this month. So far was I from neglecting the business committed to me, 
that as soon as Congress met after my return from Philadelphia I brought 
it before them and your letter was referred to a committee who, reported 
thereon. When the report was taken up Major Butler one of the delegates 
from South Carolina informed Congress that the agent for South Caro- 
lina had sent you a bill drawn on their governor for one half the 
expence, that this bill you had not returned to them and that he was sure 
it would be paid immediately on its being presented. From your letter 
which was before the house and from what you and Mr. Goldsborough 
said to me when in Philadelphia I thought you had returned the bill. 
But from the information of Mr. Butler it appeared you had not. This 
put a stop to any farther proceeding in the business. As there appears to 
be some misunderstanding in this affair I shall be glad to hear from you 
as soon as convenient. At present there is not a sufficient number of 
states assembled to proceed to business I wish the delegates from your 
state could be induced to attend. As soon as I receive your further 
advices, you may rely on my doing every thing in my power to serve you 
being with much esteem Sr 2 

774. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York Deer. 11, 1787. 
Sir, 

We have been honoured with your Excellencies favor of the 24th 
Ult. together with its enclosures. 

4 Cf. no. 768, ante. Madison wrote to Washington Dec. 7 : " No authentic infor- 
mation has yet arrived concerning the posture of Europe. Reports, with some less doubtful 
symptoms, countenance the suspicion of war " ( Writings, v. 61 ) . See no. 775, post. 

[773] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 127. 

2 See nos. 664, 666, ante. A letter from Alexander Contee Hanson and Robert 
Goldsborough, dated July 20, 1787, soliciting pay for their services as judges in the 
of the South Carolina-Georgia boundary controversy (see nos. 146, 502, ante), was laid 
before Congress July 30, 1787, and referred to a committee. The committee made a re- 
port July 31, but no action was taken. For the further course of the affair see no. 795. 
Post. 

[774] l Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Carrington, Brown, and 
Griffin) ; Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 366. 



December, 1/87 687 

Congress have not yet Assembled nor have we an early prospect of a 
sufficient number of States upon the floor for business. In the recess of 
that body, there is no authority in existence for making the appointment 
you request with respect to the Cherokee and other tribes of Indians in 
the Western parts of Virginia and North Carolina. The Indian Ordinance 
provides for no more than one Superintendant, for all the southern 
Indians, to this Office Doctor White was appointed by Congress in 
October 1786, and he has lately resigned. 2 how far Congress may be 
induced to make a separate or subordinate appointment for the Indians 
in your Excellencies Contemplation, we cannot undertake to say. to us 
the idea appears a good and reasonable one, and we will submit it to the 
consideration of Congress as soon as there are Nine States present. Some 
time must elapse before any step at all can be taken with respect to the 
southern Indians, other than what were provided for late in the last session 
of Congress, a few days before the end of the federal year some Resolu- 
tions were passed, for appropriating Six thousand dollars for holding 
Treaties with the southern Indians; and North Carolina, So. Carolina 
and Georgia, are requested to appoint, each a Commissioner, who are to 
hold the Treaties. 3 how far these States will act upon these resolutions 
we cannot undertake to say, having heard nothing from them. 

In this State of things it must remain with your Excellency to determine 
what it may be necessary for the Government of Virginia to do. We 
cannot however encourage any proceedure under an expectation that 
Congress will recognize the expence, nor have we reason to think, that 
should the appointment suggested by your Excellency be approved of, 
Major Drumgole would be the Man elected. Colo. Martin who long acted 
in this business under the Authority of Virga. and whose communications 
have eventually reached Congress would probably be prefered. Indian 
Agents necessarily have the exercise of powers which Congress will not 
confer on any but Characters tolerably well known. 4 

Doctor White is now here and we have conversed with him upon the 
subject of his late department, he says the State of Indian Affairs in 
Georgia has been such as to engage his whole time and attention while 
in Office ; this occasioned him to neglect the business as it respected those 
under your Excellencies consideration, and of course he had no ground 
of Correspondence with the Government of Virginia. 

We do not undertake to decide upon the fitness of this Gentleman for 
the appointment he held, but in justice to him we beg leave to observe that 
the sentiments of the Georgians who alone have known him in the execu- 
tion of his duty, may very possibly be formed upon views entirely opposite 
to those which would found a wise and just Conduct in the Superintendant 

2 White's appointment was on Oct. 6, 1786; his resignation does not appear to 
have been offered officially until Jan. 22, 1788. See nos. 784, 799, post. 

3 See no. 755, note 2, ante. 

4 Concerning Maj. Alexander Dromgoole's candidacy for appointment as Indian 
commissioner for the Southern department see nos. 775, 780, post. 



688 Continental Congress 

of Indian affairs, had these people conformed to his advice and Agency, it 
is probable they would have avoided the bloody War in which they are 
now involved in consequence of their own violations of the Treaties held 
by the Commissioners of the United States with the Indians. 

775. James Madison to Horatio Gates. 1 

New York Deer, n, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of the 26 Ult. was only handed to me by Majr. Drumgole. 
However important the object of his errand may have been, it has not 
been possible to take any step with regard to it. No authority equal to 
the business exists in the recess of Congress; and the authority of Con- 
gress has been out of existence for some time, and if we are to judge 
from the present aspect of things, will continue so for some time longer. 1 

There seem to be pretty strong symtoms of approaching war on the 
other side of the Atlantic. Its flames are actually kindled between the 
Turks and Russians. If the English and French do not follow the example, 
the forbearance will be more the effect of inability than of disinclination. 
The fate of the Dutch patriots is not yet decided here by any authentic 
communications, but every report and probability is ominous to their 
cause. A general war in Europe will open a new scene to this Country : 
a scene which might be contemplated with pleasure if our humanity could 
forget the calamities in which it must involve others; and if we were in a 
condition to maintain the rights and pursue the advantages of Neutrality.* 

776. The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

General Assembly. 1 

To the Honorable the General Assembly : 
Gentlemen: 

We received the commands of the Honourable the General Assembly 
last evening to lay before you this morning " The present state and cir- 
cumstances of the Union ", 2 and altho' the time limited to us is short, 
yet we shall endeavor to make a statement as in our opinion may answer 
the object of your request. The subject is of great latitude, but we have 
tried to view it in the most interesting point of light. 

All the resolutions of Congress, with the letters of your Delegates, have 

[775] 'N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XIX. 

2 Maj. Alexander Dromgoole was seeking appointment as superintendent of 
Indian affairs for the Southern department. See no. 774, ante, and no. 780, post. 

8 Information of the Kuropean situation was drawn in part from recent letters 
of Jefferson and Adams. See, for instance, Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 80, 83-92. 
102, 804-812. Probably however some of these letters had not yet arrived. 
[776]^. C. State Recs., XX. 241 (signed by Burton, Blount, and Hawkins). 

2 " Resolved, That the Delegates of this State, now in Town, be requested to lay 
before this Assembly To-morrow Morning the present State and Circumstances of the 
Union, and such transactions of Congress in the course of the last year as may be con- 
ducive to the better understanding of this Subject, or what in their opinion may be neces- 
sary to be made known to this Assembly." House Journals, Dec. 14, N. C. State Recs., 
XX. 228. 



December, 1787 689 

been laid before you, and Mr. Hawkins attended at the opening of the 
session expressly for the purpose of assisting in arranging of them and 
to throw such further light on them as might serve to explain any ambigui- 
ties, but they were ordered to be committed without a reading. 3 

A narrative of transactions, other than the connecting of these papers 
together, we feel ourselves bound to give, and shall do it accordingly from 
notes which we must reserve to ourselves. 

To describe the present state and circumstances of the Union, we may 
declare in one word that we are at the Eave of a Bankruptcy and of a total 
dissolution of Government. Since the close of the War there has not been 
paid into the General Treasury as much money as was necessary for one 
year's interest of the domestic and foreign debt, and Congress have been 
reduced to the dreadful alternative of borrowing principal to pay interest. 4 
Our efforts at home to this end were ineffectual ; abroad where we were 
not known and where enthusiasm for liberty enrolled us among the most 
deserving of mankind, we were more Successful. The deception cannot 
be much longer kept up and unless something can be done before the close 
of the ensuing year we must cease to be a United Government. Our 
friends must give us up, and we shall become a laughing stock to our 
enemies. 

The annual requisitions are so partially attended to by the States that 
our foreign and domestic embarrassments have accumulated beyond the 
possibility of being retrieved by other means than the punctual compliance 
on the part of the States. Congress, in their persevering desire of doing 
justice to their Creditors and supporting the Federal Government, have 
tryed every possible means in their power. The sale of the Western land 
has gone and will go a great way in discharge of our domestic debt, but 
our foreign debt is increasing and the best way of Judging of the possi- 
bility of soon discharging of it is by our own exertions in five years. 
We have made one payment, something less than forty thousand dollars, 
and the Schedule of requisitions will shew the deficiencies of the States 
respectively. 5 

On the subject of the Treaty, you have everything necessary to be said 
in the circular letter accompanying the resolutions of the 13th of April, 
with which several of the States have complyed. 6 

On the settlements of accompts, you have the ordinance of the 13th 
May, and the subsequent Resolution of the 28th of July, which will wind 
up the whole expences of the War on principles perfectly equitable. 
Several of the States are far advanced in their settlement, and we have 
reason to expect the Commissioner for settling our accompts will very 
soon give us notice of his attendance. 7 

3 The despatches of Congress were laid before the House of Commons Nov. 19 
and submitted to a joint committee of the two houses (ibid., pp. 128, 303). 

4 The allusion is to the recent Dutch loan. See no. 753, note 3, ante. 

5 See the treasury report of Sept. 29 and the requisition as adopted Oct. II. Cf. 
no. 777, post. 

6 See no. 634, note 2, ante. 

7 See nos. 616, 637, 647, 656, 716 (note 9), ante, 778, 926, post. The date of the 
ordinance was however May 7 (which repealed the ordinance of Oct. 13, 1786), and the 
date of the supplemental resolution (relating to unliquidated claims) was July 23. 



690 Continental Congress 

The Subject of the Navigation of the Mississippi is of so delicate a 
nature that we cannot commit it to paper. We are only at liberty to say 
that it has been seriously agitated, and that it has claimed and we presume 
it will continue to claim the serious attention of your Delegates. We 
can say in general, the conduct of Spain on this subject is not liberal, 
and we presume it would be very different if they thought us a more 
formidable neighbour. 8 

Having mentioned the western lands we must add that Sales already 
made will Sink near five millions of Dollars of the Principal of the 
Domestic debt, and that the States generally, who have ceded Western 
lands or who claim a share in them, complain pointedly and heavily 
against North Carolina and Georgia for claiming a part of the lands in 
the possession of Congress without ceding any part of their claims." 

To close our remarks, a change of measures for the consolidation of the 
Union in which is involved our prosperity, felicity, safety and perhaps 
our national existence, is so obvious that the whole of the Union, Rhode 
Island excepted, have appointed their deputies in Convention for tli.it 
purpose; the result of their deliberations you have had before you, whether 
the plan adopted by them is the proper one will depend in the sense of a 
Convention of Delegates in each State by the people thereof. 

15 December, 1787. 



yjy. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, December 20, 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The States seem to be either wholly omitting to provide for 
the federal Treasury; or to be withdrawing the scanty appropriations 
made to it. The latter course has been taken up by Massachusetts, Virginia 
and Delaware. The Treasury Board seem to be in despair of maintaining 
the shadow of Government much longer. Without money, the offices must 
be shut up, and the handful of troops on the frontier disbanded, which 
will probably bring on an Indian war, and make an impression to our 
disadvantage on the British Garrisons within our limits. 2 .... 

778. Edward Carrington to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York Deer. 22, 1787. 
D'r Sir, 

It has just occurred to me that possibly the inclosed Resolution of 
Congress may not have been so communicated through the papers of 
Philadelphia, as to be seen by you. Upon this consideration I now do myself 

8 Sec nos. 636-640, 645-647. 651, 661, 691, ante. 

9 See nos. 742, 743, 747-749. 759. ante. 

[777] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 74. 

* Cf. no. 776, ante, and nos. 779, 788, post. 
[778] » Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XL. 237. 



December, 1787 691 

the pleasure to send it to you. the measure was adopted with a view 
to bringing great numbers of the earliest staff appointments to account 
who have never yet appeared but is calculated to embrace those of every 
period. 2 .... 



779. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Deer. 27th, 1787. 
Sir, 

I have just received the letter you did me the honor to write on the 
nth. I am glad to find you have notified two of your Delegates to attend 
and hope they will come on as speedily as possible. The Affairs of the 
Union become every day more and more critical. Since my last I have re- 
ceived a letter for Congress from the Govr. of Georgia, wherein he informs 
that that State are determined to enter into a serious War with the Creek 
Indians : that for this purpose the Assembly have passed an Act to raise 
three thousand Men and have empowered the Executive in case they are 
wanted to add thereto 1 500, and that the State expects and will call upon 
Congress for the Assistance and support of the Union. 2 I am also in- 
formed that the States of Massachusetts and Virginia have diverted to 
their own state purposes the supplies which were to have come from 
them into the public treasury, so that Congress is like to be left without 
the means of keeping up the few troops on the frontiers, or even to support 
the forms of Government and defray the current expences. 3 

I enclose the Act of the 13th Oct. 

780. Charles Pettit to William Irvine. 1 

Philadelphia 29th Dec. 1787. 
Dear Sir, 

I have not yet learned whether you have made a Congress for the cur- 
rent Year, tho' I presume that at least seven States either are or shortly 
will be assembled. A Business, to which seven States are competent, will 
probably present itself early to your Notice by the Resignation of Mr. 
White as Superintendant of Indian Affairs for the southern Department. 2 
Who will be appointed to succeed him may be an Enquiry of no small 
Importance, nor do I think myself either entitled or qualified to interfere 
in the Matter, being neither cloathed with any Authority, nor sufficiently 
acquainted with the Characters of Gentlemen who I suppose to be likely 

2 The resolution transmitted was that of July 23, 1787, relative to unliquidated 
claims against sundry departments. Cf. nos. 716 (note 9), 776, ante. 
[779] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 140. 

2 See nos. 751, 755, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 777, ante. 

[780] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers, IX. 109. 
2 See nos. 774, 775, ante, 784, 799, post. 



692 Continental Congress 

to accept the Appointment with competent Knowledge of the Indians in 
that Quarter and other suitable Qualifications for such a Station. But 
whoever may have the general Superintendency of the Department, I pre- 
sume it will be necessary to employ subordinate Officers to reside among 
or be frequently with the different Tribes or Nations, and the choice of 
Men for this Purpose is often of considerable importance. I have been 
told there is among the Cherokees and Chickemaugas a Mr. Martin s who 
has been confided in ; that there is also a Mr. Drumgole * who has taken 
up his Residence among and acquired the Confidence of these Nations; 
that these two Gentleman [jtc] have not only had personal Differences, 
but carried them to a considerable height and continue so violently opposed 
to each other as to hazard the Interests and Peace of the United States so 
far as they depend on those Indians ; that Mr. Drumgole is recommended 
by the Governor and some other respectable Characters in Virginia to be 
appointed Agent to the Cherokee Nation, which includes the Chickemaugas, 
as the person most likely to cultivate and preserve their Friendship, and 
I may add that I have been requested to make favorable Mention of him 
to my Friends in Congress for this Purpose. But as I know too little of 
the Business itself, and of the Circumstances which ought to govern on 
this Occasion, to offer an Opinion concerning it, I take the Liberty only 
to mention to you the Information I have received : probably there may be 
nothing in it that is new to you, or there may be circumstances which out- 
weigh Mr. Drumgole's pretensions. I have no View in the Matter but the 
general Good, and I am confident the like Motive will guide your Con- 
duct on this and all other Occasions 8 

The Treasury usually furnish the Members of Congress with a sum- 
mary Statement of Accounts once a year. The last I have hardly closes 
the Year 1785. If any have been formed since, you will oblige me much 
by furnishing me with a Copy if it be as usual printed. 

8 Joseph Martin had been elected. Mar. at, 1785, as one of the commissioners to 
treat with the Southern Indians. 

4 Maj. Alexander Dromgoole. See the Journals, July 9, 18, 1787, Jan. 22, Feb. i, 
5, 25 ; cf. nos. 774, 775, ante. See also Williams, Lost State of Franklin, pp. 163, 164. 

5 The omission is chiefly concerned with the situation in Maryland with regard 
to the Constitution, particularly the attitude of Samuel Chase. On Dec. 31 Roger Alden 
wrote to William Samuel Johnson to give him " a general Statement of the politics of the 
Continent". "The report of the Convention", he wrote, "affords a fruitful subject 
for wits, politicians and law-makers. The presses, which conceived by the incubation of 
the Convention, are delivered from the pangs of travail and have become prolific indeed — 
the offspring is so numerous, that the public ear has become deaf to the cries of the dis- 
tressed, and grow impatient for the cristening of the first-born ". In a postscript he adds : 
" You will receive with this some of the papers of this city. I have not been able to pro- 
cure all which contain the pieces against the constitution — a writer under the signature 
of Publius takes up the matter upon the best grounds, and is a very fair, candid, sensible 
advocate upon the federal side. There is nothing personal or scurrilous in his writings — 
he only means to convince by plain reasoning, by arguments drawn from facts and 
experience" (Library of Congress, MSS. of William Samuel Johnson). The articles 
signed " Publius " were the Federalist. 



January, 1788 693 

781. James Randolph Reid to George Ross. 1 
Dear Sir, 

The depreciation of our paper money is a serious peice of business with 
public Officers. 

I find I shall have occasion for one month's pay, which I wish I could be 
favoured with on account, as we got before. 

Please to give the order to Captain McConnel who will transmit the 
commuted — minus £30 pr Centum to Your 

Very Obed't Hum'l Serv't 

James R. Reid * 
4thjany. 1788. 
The compliments of the season 

782. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

N. York Jany. 10, 1788. 
My dear friend, 

.... We have no Congress yet. The number of S[tate]s on the Spot 
does not exceed five. It is probable that a quorum will now be soon made. 
A Delegate from N. Hamsphire is expected which will make up a repre- 
sentation from that State. The termination of the Connecticut Conven- 
tion will set her Delegates at liberty, and the meeting of the Assembly 
of this State will fill the vacancy which has some time existed in her 
Delegation. 2 

783. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

N. York, Jany. 20, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

The Count de Moustier arrived here a few days ago as successor to the 
Chevr. de la Luzerne. His passage has been so tedious that I am not sure 
that the despatches from Mr. Jefferson make any considerable addition 
to former intelligence. I have not yet seen them, but am told that this is 
the case. 2 .... 

[781] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, " The hon'le George Ross Esqr. Philadelphia Fav'd by Mr. 
McConnell"). 

2 Endorsed, " Read in Council January 8th, 1788 and an order was drawn for 
£69. 15. o one Months pay." Cf. no. 840, post. 

[782] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 79; Papers, II. 664; Elliot, 
Debates, V. 570. 

2 Cf. no. 772, ante, and no. 785, post. Rufus King, then in New York, addressed 
a note to Madison Jan. 6 (Sunday), in which he said, " I hope to leave town on Tuesday 
for Boston" (Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Life of King, I. 312). On the same 
day he wrote to Jeremiah Wadsworth in Connecticut, mentioning that Samuel Adams 
was "out full mouthed against the Constitution". Conn. Hist. Soc, Wadsworth Papers. 
[783] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., Madison Papers (draft) ; Writ- 
ings, V. 85. 

2 Concerning the Comte de Moustier and foreign despatches see nos. 765, 768, 772, 
775, ante. Cf. nos. 792, 794, 856, 953, post. In a letter to Washington Jan. 14 Madison had 
written, " Neither French nor English packet is yet arrived ; and the present weather 
would prevent their getting in if they should be on the coast." In an omitted passage 
Madison says, " The intelligence from Massachusetts begins to be very ominous to the 
Constitution ", and relates particulars. See no. 786, note 2, post. Letters of Jefferson 



694 Continental Congress 

. . . . If I am not misinformed as to the arrival of some members for 
Congress, a quorum is at length made up. 3 

784. James White to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

New York 22d Jan'y 1788. 
Sir, 

As my holding the office of superintend^ of indian aff's is incompatible 
with a late appointment of the State of north Carolina; I request the 
favor of you to lay my resignation before Congress. 2 

785. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular Office of Secretary [of] Congress 

January 23d, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform your Excellency that on Monday last Seven 
states assembled, Namely Massachusetts New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Dela- 
ware, Maryland, Virginia, and South Carolina, and from New Hampshire 
Mr. Gilman from Connecticut Mr. Wadsworth from North Carolina Mr. 
White and from Georgia Mr. Baldwin 

Sept. 19, 22 (two), Oct. 8, 27, were reported by Jay Feb. 1. Excepting the last, they are 
in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 86-92, 95. A private letter to Jay respecting the 
Comte de Moustier, Oct. 8, is ibid., p. 98. See also the Journals, Feb. 1, 5, II, 12. 

8 In a letter to Randolph the same day (Writings, V. 86) are passages nearly 
identical with those here given (cf. nos. 785, 786, post), as well as a like account of the 
situation in Massachusetts. A quorum was assembled Jan. 81. 
Following is Madison's account for attendance at the Convention and at Congress July 

20, 1787, to Jan. 20, 1788 (Library of Congress, Madison Papers, end of 1787) : 

£ s. d. 
" 1787. The Commonwealth of Virginia to James Madison Jr. Dr. 

To attendance in Convention at Congress from July 20. to Octr. 20 

being 92 days at 6 dollars per day 165 — 12 — 

Copy sent Aug : 2d to Auditor 

1787. The Commonwealth of Virginia to James Madison Jr. Dr. 

To attendance as a member of Congress from Octr. 20 to Jany. 20 

being 92 days at 6 dollars per day £165 — 12 — 

Credit. 

By surplus advance by the hands of Govr. Randolph £ 14 

Balance £151 — 12 — 

The Aud'r of P. Accts. at Rich'd 

E. Exd. Js. Madison Jr. 
To the Treasurer of Virginia. 
Sir, 

Please to pay to the Hon'ble John Blair or order thirty pounds current money, and to 
Governeur Morris Esqr. or order one hundred and twenty one pounds twelve shillings of 
like money, on account of 

j 1 >ii r obed. h'ble serv't 

Js. Madison Jr. 
Note. Separate order given in fav'r of Mr. B. and Mr. M. and Mr. Ambler requested to 
remit the sum to Mr. B. or if no opp'y to give him notice of the order." 
[784] l Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XXIV., f. 509. 

* Endorsed by Roger Alden as " Read Feb'y 1st 1788 ". See the Journals, Feb. I, 

21, 25, 20: also no. 774. ante, and nos. 709, 831. post. 

[785] J Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Mass. Arch., House Files, no. 2923; Am. 
Phil. Soc.. Franklin Papers, LV. 108; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 141 ; Cal. Va. State Papers. IV. 396; N. C. St'ai, \ \ I. 441. 



January, 1/88 695 

Yesterday Congress proceeded to the election of a President and made 
choice of His Excellency Cyrus Griffin 2 

786. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

N. York. Jany. 27, 1788. 
My dear friend, 

A Congress was made for the first time on Monday last and our friend 
C. Griffin placed in the chair. There was no competition in the case which 
you will wonder at as Virginia has so lately supplied a president. N. Jer- 
sey did not like it I believe very well, but acquiesced. 2 .... 

787. Charles Thomson to Thomas FitzSimons. 1 

Dear Sir, 

Though the Asia was obliged to sail without Sea letters, yet as Mr. J. 
Mifflin informed me that the owners wished to be supplied with them I 
meant to send them after by some other vessel, I embraced the earliest 
opportunity of procuring and now send enclosed the sea letter for the 
Asia. 2 I am sorry that the non attendance of the members has delayed 
this so long, but hope in time a remedy will be found for this as well as 
other defects in the administration of the public concerns of the Union. 
Mrs. T. joins in Compliments to Mrs. Fitzsimmons and yourself, 

New York Feby 3, 1788. 

2 Cf. nos. 782, 783, ante, 786, 793, post. Benjamin Contee, delegate from Mary- 
land, took the following oath of office on the day of his attendance (Jan. 21) : 

" 1 benjamin Contee do swear that I will not receive, directly nor indirectly at any 
Time, any part of the profits of any Office held by any other person during my acting in 
my Office of Delegate to Congress ; or the profits or any part of the profits arising on any 
Agency for the Supply of clothing or provisions for the army or navy. [Signed:] Ben. 
Contee." Md. Hist. Soc, Loose MSS. 

[786] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 666; Elliot, Debates, V. 572. 
2 In a letter to Rufus King, dated " N. York, Jany. 23d, 1/2 after 8 o'c", Madison 
wrote (in response to King's letter of Jan. 16) : " The arrival of the French Minister 
here must have got to Boston through the Gazettes. He has been too long on the way 
to add much to former intelligence. ... A Cong's was made for the first time on Monday, 
and Mr. C. Griffin has been placed in the chair " (Life of King, I. 358, misplaced as of 
1789). Of the election of Griffin he wrote similarly to Washington Jan. 25 (Writings, 
V. 89) , with the additional remark, " This is the only step yet taken ". Cf. no. 788, post. In 
the letter to Washington he quoted King's letter of Jan. 16, which related to the situation 
in Massachusetts with regard to the Constitution (Life of King, I. 313). A series of 
letters from Madison to Washington, Jan. 28 to Feb. 15 (Writings, V. 92-100), quoting 
extensively letters to him from King, Jan. 20 to Feb. 3 (Life of King, I. 314-318), are 
chiefly concerned with developments respecting the Constitution. King wrote to General 
Gates Jan. 20 a letter of similar purport to that written to Madison the same day. He 
believed the Massachusetts convention would ratify the Constitution, but would probably 
recommend to the delegates certain alterations (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., K). On 
the same day King also wrote a brief account of the situation to George Thatcher, his 
colleague in Congress (Hist. Magazine, XVI. 266). 

[787] x Library of Congress, Cont. Cong., Misc. MSS. (addressed, "Mr. Thomas 
Fitzsimmons Merch't Philadelphia"). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 1, where it is ordered that sea letters be granted for 
the ship Hercules, Moses Brown commander, and also for the ship Asia, John Barry 
commander, both bound for Canton in China. Appended to the petition of Thomas 
Russell, upon which the action was taken, is a statement by Rufus King, dated Jan. 7, 
1788, that he is well acquainted with Moses Brown, etc. Cf. no. 791, post. 



696 Continental Congress 

788. Samuel Alleyne Otis to the Speaker of the Massachusetts 
House of Representatives (James Warren). 1 

Dear Sir, New York Feb y- 6 » I 7^- 

I wrote you in my last that a few days after my arrival here, which was 
17 Novr., 2 the Secretary of Congress notified the States that were unrep- 
resented, to send forward their delegates; But as I suppose, the approach- 
ing convention of several States was so interesting that no representation 
took place until 21st Jany., and then of only seven States; N. I lanishire. 
Connecticut, N. Carolina, and Georgia, having only one, and N. York and 
Rhode Island none 

I need not enlarge upon the weak state of the Foederal government ; 
Many circumstances contribute to debase its dignity. The Tresury [_sic~\ 
of the USA being without supplies, Their troops stationed to secure the 
frontiers, and the Civil list of Congress destitute of provision; And even 
the small pittance necessary for the subsistence of the Presidents household, 
even in the most eligible stile, of republican neatness and simplicity, only 
attainable from other inadequate appropriations ; 8 Are facts which evince 
the most degrading poverty in the foederal Government. And how can it 
be otherwise ? Massachusetts in the last sessions resumed all the provision 
she had made for support of the Union Verginia at the same time with- 
drew her supplies. In this situation without any provision for a growing 
foreign and domestic debt, can it be wondered at that a Government , not 
destitute indeed of resources, but so supine in her application of them, 
should be viewed in a ridiculous light by her own Citizens, and a con- 
temptible one by other Nations? Every good Citizen feels himself hurt 
by the inddignities his Country is liable to in this humiliating predicament 
both at home and abroad. Under these circumstances however Congress 
tho't it their duty at least to preserve the forms, and proceeded to the elec- 
tion of Cyrus Griffin Esq. their President on 22d Jany., but being only 
seven states represented, the more important business is necessarily 
defered. 4 

The arrival of the minister from the Court of France B is an additional 
attention, to the many acts of friendship experienced from a generous 
ally; But when he comes to remind us, and that in very pressing terms. 
of large ballances long since due, both for principal and interest, we can- 
not make him such a reply as friendship or good policy dictates. 

Congress have it in contemplation to adjourn in the Spring, And ef- 
forts will be made to get the place of adjournment to Philadelphia, but 
this will be opposed; I wish for the opinion of my judicious friends upon 
this Subject; Possibly it might prevent a seat more Southward.* .... 

[788] 1 Mass. Arch., Senate Files., no. 8431. 

2 Presumably the letter dated Nov. 27, no. 768, ante. 

» See the Journals. Mar. 23, 1787; also no. 617, ante. 

4 See nos. 782, 783, 785, 786, ante. 

8 See nos. 783, 786 (note 2), ante, 792, 794. 795. 7<)7. Post) also Moustier to 
Montmorin Feb. 8, in Am. Hist. Rev., VIII. 714. William Bingham wrote to Jay Jan. 29: 
"I am happy to find that a Minister has arrived from the Court of \ ersaillea and that 
he has brottghl I hie family. If they can be reconciled to our simple Republican 

manners, they may prove valuable accessions to your society at New York" (Correspon- 
dence of Ja\, III. 321). 

•See no. 804, post ; cf. nos. 636, 637, 643. 656, 661, ante. 



February, 1788 697 

789. James White to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New- York feby. nth, 1788. 
Sir, 

I beg permission to enclose to your Excellency the advertiser of today. 2 
If it contains as early hints, as any you have received of what is doing in 
Massachussets with respect to the great business on which they are delib- 
erating, perhaps it may not be unacceptable. The amendments you will 
see proposed by the State, as they stand in the paper, are merely recom- 
mendatory; and their delegates assure me there is no doubt but the pro- 
posed constitution is, by this time acceeded to. 3 

I know of nothing in the particular line of Congress to inform you of, 
tho' much business requiring nine States, has been before them, there have 
been present, as yet but barely seven ; and it has happened that the absence, 
or indisposition of some one has been a bar to all proceedings. I there- 
fore have the more to regret the want of a colleague. 

I wish to express the pleasure I feel on your Excellency's acceptance of 
your important office; from which the State is like to reap so much 
advantage. 4 .... 

790. Joseph Platt Cooke to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

Danbury February 13th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday I received your favour of the 10th instant by the tenor of 
which I find it necessary to be somewhat particular in apologizing for my 
non-attendance at Congress, which seems to have made some unfavourable 
impressions on your mind. I received the Governors letter the week before 
the Sessions of the State Convention directing my attendance and inform- 
ing that you would attend with me to which indeed I returned no answer 
as none was desired and I expected to go on, but as I could not reasonably 
expect your attendance untill after the Convention, I thought it expedient 
to wait till I should hear from you, as I could be in New York within two 
days after being informed that you was there, the week before last I had 
the first notice that you was gone on, and at the same time was informed 
in such a manner as to depend upon it that Mr. Mitchel was to join you 
there in a very short time, from this information and not hearing from 

[789] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 The New York Daily Advertiser of Feb. 1 1 contains, under " Boston, Feb. 2 ", 
an article respecting the proceedings of the Massachusetts convention. Governor Han- 
cock, it is stated, took the chair on Wednesday (Jan. 30), and on Thursday offered his 
propositions for the adoption of the Constitution, with nine amendments. 

3 Abraham Baldwin wrote to Noble Wimberly Jones Feb. 8 : " The last accounts 
from Massachusetts are that by introducing amendments, though not as absolute con- 
ditions of their ratification, they expect to obtain a majority of 8 or 10" (Library of 
Congress, Force Trans., S. C. Records, Misc. Papers, 1663-1776, copy). The Massa- 
chusetts convention ratified the Constitution Feb. 6. See King to Langdon and to Madison, 
Feb. 6, in Life of King, I. 319. 

4 Johnston was elected governor Dec. 20, 1787. 
[790] l Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 



698 Continental Congress 

you I really supposed that some new arrangement had taken place by 
which my attendance would be dispensed with, and upon that idea gave 
over the thoughts of going. I am sorry to find I have been mistaken and 
more especially as the present state of my health will not now admit of 
my leaving home. I returned from Fairfield last Week very unwell and 
have been confined ever since. Pray write to Mr. Mitchel or Col. Chester 
to come on, and if it be not convenient for either of them, I will attend as 
soon as my health will permit, which I fear will not be under a fortnight. 

791. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Circular Office of Secretary of Congress 

Feby. 15th 1788. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to Your Excellencey herewith enclosed 
An Act passed the 12th Instant by the United States in Congress Assembled 
for granting Sea Letters to American Vessels, bound on long and distant 
Voyages. 2 

That the Mercantile part of Your State may be fully informed of this 
Act, I have to request the favour of Your Excellencey, that You will be 
pleased to cause it to be published in the public papers, or made known 
to them in such other way as Your Excellencey shall think proper. 

792. Paine Wingate to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

New York, February 16, 1788. 
Sir, 

Last Saturday evening I arrived at this city, and on the Monday fol- 
lowing took my seat in Congress. 2 Seven states only had been represented 
in Congress before that time, and but three or four days had been lm- 

[791] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (to the governor of Georgia); Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 2921; Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 83; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, p. 142; Pa. 
Arch., first ser., XI. 239; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 447. 
2 See the Journals Feb. 11, 12; cf. no. 787, ante. 

[79a] 1 Charles E. L. Wingate, Life and Letters of Paine Wingate, I. 216; N. H. State 
Papers, XXI. 840. 

•He attended Monday, Feb. n. Wingate had written to President Sullivan from 
Stratham Dec. 5, 1787, to acknowledge his election as delegate to Congress. " The honor ". 
he wrote, " of an Appointment by so respectable Authority, and to a most important Trust, 
demands a return of Gratitude .... my utmost exertions shall not be wanting to answer 
the purposes of my appointment, and hope that I shall be so happy as to meet the Ap- 
probation of my Constituents" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. ; Life of ll'in- 
gate, I. 214). On Jan. 23 he again wrote to Sullivan, touching the question of requisite 
funds : "Agreeably to your Excellency's proposal, I yesterday waited upon the Treas- 
urer and received fifty pounds for Mr. Gilman and a like sum for myself, with which 
I shall set out on my journey as soon as circumstances will permit, probably by Saturday 
or Monday next. When I reflect on expenses which are unavoidable at New York, and 
the smallness of the sum which I have received. I cannot but feel anxious lest Mr. Gilman 
will be greatly disappointed, and we both find ourselves soon in a very disagreeable 
situation for want of cash" (Chicago Hist. Soc., Gunther Coll.; Life of Wmgatt, I. 214). 
The omitted part of this letter of Feb. 16 is mainly concerned with the suggestion of a 
mode by which the delegates might be supplied with cash. 



February, I/S8 699 

proved for any business since they formed. The states now represented 
are New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersies, Pennsylvania, Dela- 
ware, Virginia, Maryland and South Carolina. There are single members 
from Connecticut, North Carolina and Georgia, and others are expected 
in daily. 

In the course of the present week some dispatches from Mr. Adams 
at London have arrived and been communicated to Congress. They were 
dated, I think, in November. 3 I had not had opportunity to read them at 
the office and am able to give your Excellency no very particular account 
of their contents. A principal design, however, appears to me was to sug- 
gest some prudential conduct to be observed by the United States in regard 
to the disputes then subsisting between France and Great Britain, by inter- 
medling with which it seems that our Minister at the United Netherlands 
had got himself most sadly embarrassed. 

Mr. Adams is to return home soon and is directed to take leave of his 
Britanic Majesty and of their high Mightinesses by giving assurances of 
the attachment and friendship of the United states to them respectively. 4 
Congress also have assigned next Tuesday week as the day for receiving 
the Minister Plenipotentiary of his most Christian Majesty who has 
lately arrived. 5 .... 

793. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons. 1 

N: York febyi 8th 1788. 
Dear Sir. 

.... The congratulations of a worthy man and so friendly a mind 
must always be acceptable to a heart of sensibility. I thank you for them, 
and yet I feel no addition of real satisfaction in being thus elevated, but 
truly and with sincerity I feel the reverse. 

My family are the great object I have in contemplation, and if this 
promotion in its consequences shall redound to the advantage of my chil- 
dren my utmost wishes will be accomplished. So far as private considera- 
tions are permitted to operate — at all times and upon all occasions I would 

3 A report of the secretary for foreign affairs, dated Jan. 23, transmitting letters 
from Adams of Sept. 10, 22, and 23, was laid before Congress Feb. 1, and one of Oct. 9 
on Feb. S. Adams's letters with their enclosures, are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
II. 802-811 ; except that of Oct. 9 they are also in Works, VIII. 448-455. 

4 See the Journals, Feb. 12 ; also nos. 744, 749, 756, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 5, 13, 14, 19-21, 26; cf. nos. 783, 786 (note 2), ante, 794, 
795. 797. post. The correspondence etc., between Moustier and Jay relative to the audience 
is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, I. 245-253. In reporting to Congress, Feb. 12 
(Journals, Feb. 13), upon the ceremonial Jay remarked upon the desirability of a greater 
differentiation between the ceremonies for ambassadors and for ministers, respectively, 
but advised that any change made should await the inauguration of the proposed new 
government, and that the same ceremonial as employed in the cases of Luzerne and the 
minister of the Netherlands be adopted in the present instance. For Moustier's remarks 
upon the subject see his letter of Feb. 12 to Montmorin, in Am. Hist. Rev., VIII. 721. 
On Feb. 13 and Mar. 13 Moustier wrote to Jefferson the disappointments and annoyances 
that had attended his reception and residence in the United States, and reiterated his 
complaints in a letter of Aug. 12 (Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers). See Jefferson 
to Moustier May 17 (Jefferson's Writings, V. 10), and Jefferson to Carmichael June 3 
(ibid., p. 23). Cf. nos. 805, 810, 831, 844, 851, 856, 953, post. 

[793] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 
5i 



700 Continental Congress 

sacrifice my ease to their emolument, and as to the public, it is not in my 
power to do any essential services, but I will discharge my duty with 
honesty and to the best of my abilities 2 

The proposed Constitution now stands upon a firm basis ; The ratifica- 
tion of Massachusets will carry it triumphantly throughout. N. Ham. 
will presently adopt it, Maryland and South-Carolina by large majorities 
in convenient time ; N. York, Virginia, and N. Carolina must find their 
concurrence indispensably necessary ; and even Rhode Island in all proba- 
bility will soon be deliberating. Colonel R. H. Lee and Mr. John Page, 
men of Influence in Virginia, are relinquishing their opposition ; but what 
to us is very extraordinary and unexpected, we are told that Mr. George 
Mason has declared himself so great an enemy to the constitution that he 
will heartily join Mr. Henry and others in promoting a Southern Con- 
federacy — alas! how inconstant is the mind of man. 3 

all the European Information of a public nature has been communicated 
in the news-papers 

794. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, Feby. 19, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

By the Count de Moustier I received your favour of the 8th of 
October. 2 .... 

The Public here continues to be much agitated by the proposed federal 
Constitution and to be attentive to little else. 8 .... 

Congress have done no business of consequence yet, nor is it probable 
that much more of any sort will precede the event of the great question 
before the public* .... 

- In an omitted passage he remarks, " I am almost tired to death with this kind 
of life, in a crowd thro' the day and solitary at night ", and expresses the hope that 
his family may come to New York in April or May. 

8 See nos. 749, 75°, 752, 762, ante. 
[ 794] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 100. 

2 See nos. 765, 772, 783, 786 (note 2), 792, ante. Jefferson's letter of Oct. 8 is in 
his Writings, IV. 460. Of Moustier Jefferson says " He is a great enemy to formality, 
etiquette, ostentation and luxury. He goes with the best dispositions to cultivate society 
without poisoning it by ill example. He is sensible, disposed to view things favorably, and 
being well acquainted with the constitution of England, its manners and language, is 
the better prepared for his station with us." At the close of the letter he adds in 
cipher : " De Moustier is remarkably communicative. With adroitness he may be pumped 
of anything. His openness is from character, not from affectation. An intimacy with him 
may, on this account be politically valuable." Cf. Jefferson to Moustier May 17, to Car- 
michael June 3 (ibid., V. 10, 22), and nos. 795, 797, Post. Moustier's instructions, dated 
Oct. 10, are in Am. Hist. Rev.. VIII. 710-714. Concerning the minister's public audience 
see no. 792, ante, and no. 795, post. What Jefferson says of Madame de Brehan (the 
"Marchioness"), who accompanied Moustier. is of especial interest in view of Madison's 
report to Jefferson Dec. 8 (no. 053, post). See also nos. 844, 851, 856, post. 

8 The letter is largely devoted to setting forth the situation in various qua: 
respecting the Constitution. A letter to Washington Feb. 20 (Writings, V. 104) touches 
the question whether he should stand for the Virginia convention, and discusses the situa- 
tion in France, as learned from English papers. A letter to Pendleton Feb. 21 (ibid.. 
p. 107) is mainly concerned with the Constitution, partly with the European situation. 

4 Cf. nos. 749, 762, 766, 768, 772, 774, 775, ante: cf. nos. 796, 816, 817. post. In a 
postscript Madison says, " The Boxes which were to have come for myself G. W. and 
A. D. etc. have not yet arrived". (The editor of Madison's Writings found "and A. D. 



February, 1788 701 

795. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (Thomas Pinckney). 1 

New York Febry. 19th, 1788. 
Sir, 

Since our last Communication to your Excellency, the Count de Mous- 
tiers, who arrived here some weeks past, has been announced to Congress as 
Minister plenipotentiary from the Court of Versailles to the United States 
in the room of the Chevalier de la Luzerne and will have his public audi- 
ence on the 26th of the current month. 2 .... 

We think it our Duty to inform your Excellency that Messrs. Hanson 
and Goldsborough, the two Gentlemen who were appointed Judges to 
settle the Differences betwixt the States of South Carolina and Georgia 
concerning their territorial Rights, have made application to Congress for 
the sum due to them on account of their attendance on that Business previ- 
ous to their receiving Information of the Accommodation which took place 
between the States concerned. The Amount we understand is about three 
Hundred and twenty Dollars, and as this Expense must necessarily fall 
on the States interested we think it for the Honor of the State we represent 
that the Honorable Legislature give order for the immediate payment of 
its moiety of the said sum when demanded by Congress, which we sup- 
pose will be as soon as the Committee to whom this Business is referred 
shall make their Report. 3 We have anticipated the regular Communica- 
tion of this Matter that it may if possible, be before the Legislature previ- 
ous to their adjournment. The Ratification of the new Constitution by 
the State of Massachusetts was yesterday received by Congress. 4 

796. The Secretary of Congress to Rufus King. 1 

New York Feby. 24, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have from time to time transmitted to the executives of the several 
States to be laid before the legislatures monthly and official statements of 
the representation of Congress. By recurring to these it will appear that in 
the federal year commencing the 7 Nov. 1785 and ending the 5 Novr. 

etc." illegible.) The clue is in a letter from Jefferson to Madison Sept. 17, 1787 (Madi- 
son Papers). He had shipped three boxes "marked I. M. [i. e., J. M.] G. W. and A. D., 
the two last are for Mr. Wythe in Williamsburgh, and Mr. Alexr. Donald merchant in 
Richmond". See also Jefferson to Wythe Sept. 16 {Writings, IV. 442); cf. his letter 
to Madison Aug. 2 (ibid., p. 419). Concerning Alexander Donald, see Jefferson's letter 
to him July 28, 1787 (ibid., p. 413), and his letter to Nicholas Lewis July 29 (ibid., p. 415). 
[795] x From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 

2 See nos. 792, 794, ante, and no. 797, post. 

3 See no. 773, ante. A further letter from Hanson to Thomson on the subject, 
dated Dec. 30, 1787, was read in Congress Feb. 5, and on Feb. 12, together with the com- 
mittee report of July 31, 1787, was referred to a committee, who reported Mar. 5. In 
accordance with the committee's recommendation the states of South Carolina and Georgia 
were requested to make provision for the payment of Hanson and Goldsborough. 

4 This letter, signed by Huger, Parker, and Tucker, is addressed to " His Ex- 
cellency Thomas Pinckney Esq.", and is endorsed, " from the Delegates 19th Feby. 1788 
Comm'd Mr. Izard [Mr.] Gillon Mr. Kellesson[?] ". 

[796] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- Book, pasted in between pp. 142 and 143. 



702 Continental Congress 

1786 the state of Rhode island 2 was represented 11 days in July, 25 in 
August, 6 in Septr. and 14 in Octr. in all 54 days — that in the federal 
year commencing the 6 Novr. 1786 and ending the 4 Novr. 1787 that 
state 8 was represented 4 only 15 days, 5 and this was in the Month of April. 
And from the commencement of the present federal year to this time no 
delegate has appeared from that state. To what cause this neglect has been 
owing is not for me to decide. I had frequently written 6 to the states 
unrepresented and particularly to Rhode island but without effect urging 
the necessity of sending on delegates, at length on the 13 of August 1787 
the president at the desire of Congress wrote a circular letter of which the 
enclosed is a copy, 1 in answer to which he received a letter from the gover- 
nor of Rhode island dated 17 Sept. 1787 with a vote or act of their legisla- 
ture date " In general Assembly Sept. session 1787 wherein it is resolved " 
that his Ex'y the governor be and he is thereby requested to inform the 
President of Congress of the measures taken by the Assembly for having 
the state duly represented in Congress to meet on the first Monday in 
Novr. and that they have not given orders for their delegates going for- 
ward previous to that time etc. 8 



797. Samuel Alleyne Otis to the Speaker of the Massachusetts 
House of Representatives (James Warren). 1 

New York 27th Feby. 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I have nothing very interesting to add to my last. 8 A public audience 
to the Minister of France was given yesterday at his request. The address 
and answer you have in the papers enclosed. The Minister is a man of 
about forty, his manner rather more lively than dignified, altho no decided 
opinion can be formed from a single interview, and that a public 
one. 8 .... 

2 At this point the following stands erased in the Letter-Book copy: "had BO 
Members attending till May, and from that time only one till the 14 July when another 
attended, from which time to the end of that year the state ". 

8 Erased at this point: " had not a Member attending till the 14 Feby 1787 wIk-ii 
one appeared and continued alone till the 9th of April when he was joined by a collegue and 
the state". 

* Erased : " in that Month ". 

6 Erased : " during some part of the next Month one Member attended and in the 
latter end of July and beginning of August one Member attended 13 days after which tin- 
state was without delegates in Congress to the close of the year, so that the whole tim< 
the state was this year represented was only 15 days " 

6 Erased : " but without effect ". 

7 No. 717, ante. 

8 The Rhode Island letter was laid before Congress Sept. 24. 

[797] ' Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 843 (addressed, "The Honorable James Warren 
Esqr Milton Massachusetts ", and endorsed, " In the House of Representatives March 
24, 1788 Read with the papers accompanying and committed to the Committee on the 
subject of the Western lands belonging to this Commonwealth sent up for concur; 
J Warren Spkr " ; written over the address, " Mr. Dawes Dr. Kilham Mr. Mason com on 
West'n Lands"). 

2 Feb. 6, no. 788. ante. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 26; also nos. 792, 704. 795. ante, 805, 831. post. 



February, 1788 703 

Upon the subject of Western Lands, Congress want the Western Line 
ascertained, viz., from 45 ° No. Latitude thro the Westerly end of Lake 
Ontario, South upon Meridian line, to Pensylvania line. This if impar- 
tially run, so far from being objectionable will be for our benefit; pro- 
vided a faithful person on our part be appointed to attend the business; 
But in almost all Land matters, Massachusetts seems to come off second 
best. 4 

I find it is in contemplation to assume the State debts, and fund state 
and federal at 3 pr Cent. What think you of such a project ? Would it be 
just? And how would it affect Massachusetts? This or a Sponge I ap- 
prehend will be attempted at some period not far distant. I'm however 
by no means satisfied of the justice or utility of this measure. 5 Wishing 
for your Sentiments upon this or other subjects as opp'y permits, 

I am very sincerely Yours, 

Sam. A. Otis 

[P. S.] The Postmaster conducts poorly in shifting the Mail from 
Stages to Horses and I find your intelligence imperfect. 6 The enclosed 
papers containing all the news, when you have read them please to hand 
to my other friends with my Compliments. 

798. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Vice President of 
Pennsylvania (Peter Muhlenberg). 1 

New York Febry. 28th, 1788. 
Sir, 

We received your letter of the 5th of Febry. and should not have so long 
delay'd our answer could we have Sooner given any satisfactory informa- 
tion to either the Council or the House. 2 

With respect to the quantity of the tract, nothing can be conjectur'd 
with Accuracy and as the estimate you require must be founded principally 
on this fact, we have as a first Step, originated an enquiry by motion in 
Congress which, should its progress be unobstructed will at once decide 
the size and property of the Tract. Should it fall within the United States, 
the price will not in all probability exceed one Dollar in certificates per 
Acre, and if within the State of Massachusetts much less as that State 
cannot well exceed the terms of the New York Land Office. 

The Moment Congress come to any Act on this Subject, we shall have 
the honor of communicating it. 3 

4 See the motion of William Irvine, in the Journals, Feb. 25, and no. 798, post. 

5 Cf. no. 950, post. 

6 See no. 926, note 2, post. 

[798] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of John Armstrong, jr., 
and signed by Irvine, Armstrong, and Reid ; addressed, " Hon. Peter Muhlenberg Esq. 
Vice Presidt. Philada. By the Hon. Coll. Howard") ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 251. 

2 Muhlenberg's letter of Feb. 5 is ibid., p. 237. This letter of the Pennsylvania 
delegates was transmitted " By the Hon. Coll. Howard ", that is, John Eager Howard, 
delegate from Maryland. A letter from Howard to Jeremiah Wadsworth, without date, 
but endorsed as from Baltimore, March 1, 1788, mainly respecting the prospect in Mary- 
land for the adoption of the Constitution, is in Conn. Hist. Soc., Wadsworth Papers. 

3 The motion (by William Irvine), Feb. 25, was referred to a committee, who 
reported Mar. 6. Irvine's motion and the committee's report were then (precise date 



704 Continental Congress 

799. The Secretary of Congress to Richard Winn. 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

March I, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that the United States in Congress 
assembled have appointed you Superintendant of Indian affairs in the 
Southern department, in the room of Mr. White who has resigned. 2 The 
situation of affairs in that quarter requiring an immediate appointment 
to that Office and Congress being uncertain whether a long continuance 
therein would be agreeable or convenient for you they have confined the 
appointment to the space of six months having principally in view the 
settlement of a peace with the southern Indians. 

Inclosed I send you the resolution under which you are appointed 
together with your commission and instructions on the present Occasion, 
and for your further information I also transmit herewith enclosed the 
Ordinance for the regulation of Indian affairs, the resolution empowering 
the states of North Carolina South Carolina and Georgia to appoint each 
one commissioner to act in conjunction with you for the purpose of nego- 
tiating a treaty to establish peace between the United States and the tribes 
of Indians in the southern district and a copy of the letter I wrote to 
those states on the occasion. 8 

The oath and bond required by the Ordinance you will be pleased to 
forward to me by the first opportunity. 



800. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York 2d March 1788. 

Your Excellency will find enclosed a report of the Board of Treasy. on 

a Motion made by the Delegates of Pennsylva. for placing the sum of 

78,642 Dol's of the bills of credit of — 81 to the debit of the Gen. Account 

of said State with the United States. 

uncertain) transmitted to the council by the delegates, with the following remarks 
appended : 

" N. B. The within is a Copy of the proceedings had on the subject mentioned therein, 
which is now suspended. The Delegates of Massachusetts have sent to that State for 
instructions, as the right of soil falls to them within the western boundary by an u 
ment between them and New York. Both these States must acquiesce in the mode of 
ascertaining the line as they are parties concerned agreeable to the true intent and 
meaning of the Cession, etc." (Pa. Arch., first ser.. XI. j 17-240; see ibid., pp. 203, 
2.37, 241, 243, 245, and no. 797, ante). Another report was made by the committee 
June 6. See no. 864, post. 

[799] * Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 143. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 1, 21, 25, 29, and no. 784, ante. Cf. no. 831, post. \Vinn'> 
acceptance, dated Mar. 31, was read in Con.yros May 22. Sec also the report of the 
secretary of Congress May 23. 

"See no. 755, ante ; cf. no. 814, post. The ordinance for the regulation of Indian 
affairs is in the Journals, Aug. 7, 1786. 

[800] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Armstrong and 
signed by him "for the Delegation"; addressed, "His Excellency the President of the 
S. E. Council") ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 252. 



March, 1/88 705 

The Board reports against the motion and the presumption is that some 
Act of Congress will soon follow. It will be our object to prevent this for 
a week or ten days during which time we would beg to be honored with 
the advice and instructions of Council on the subject. This will be the 
more necessary as from some circumstances or other all the documents of 
the last year's delegation on this point have been lost as not a single paper 
of the many which I know were furnish'd in support of the claim of the 
State, has come down to either Gen. Irevin or Myself. 2 

801. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons (P). 1 

dear sir, 

.... We expect a packet every day which may possibly bring us some 

Intelligence from abroad 2 N : Hampshire, I am very sorry to tell 

you that the convention have separated without taking a question upon 
the important business of the constitution ; it seems that the federal Mem- 
bers were apprehensive of a negative, and therefore came into the measure 
of an adjournment untill June: I consider this piece of conduct as very 
unfortunate indeed, for nine states will not have agreed to the system be- 
fore Virginia shall be assembled ; this will make her in fact the prepon- 
derating state of the union ; and being so placed I fear the consequences ; 
perhaps Rhode Island may take up the discussion and accord with the plan, 
the best men of the country are very busy to that purpose but as yet they 
appear a minority, we are parting with our valuable friend Madison 
to Virginia from Congress, but still I am doubtful that all his virtues and 
abilities will avail nothing. .... 

March 3, 1788. 

802. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

jj ~. New York, March 3, 1788. 

. . . . 2 Col. Heth arrived a day or so ago with the proceedings of the 
Commissioners. They will be laid before Congress to-day. 8 I have been 

2 The report transmitted was probably that of Oct. 31, 1786. See no. 542, ante. 
This letter is endorsed : " Read in Council March 6th 1788 and referred to the Comp- 
troller General together with the inclosure for his consideration and report. James 
Trimble for Charles Biddle Sec'y ". 

[SoiPHist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 The first omitted passage pertains to the question of his family's removal to 
New York ; the second to news respecting France. 

[802] 1 Writings, V. 113; Papers, II. 270 (but lacking this passage). 

2 The letter is chiefly comment on the adjournment of the New Hampshire 
convention and its probable effect. Similar letters were written to Pendleton and Wash- 
ington the same day (Writings, V. no, in). 

3 The Virginia papers were laid before Congress Mar. 3 and referred to a 
committee, who reported May 5. The subject was the settlement of Virginia's claims 
on account of the western territory in accordance with the act of Congress of Oct. io, 
1780 (cf. the report of the board of treasury, Feb. 1, on the memorial of David Henley). 
A letter from Col. William Heth to the governor of Virginia, Mar. 9, respecting his 
mission is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers, printed in Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 400. 
Referring to the committee appointed on the business he remarks : " Colo. Wadsworth, 
the chairman, a Man of Judgment and liberality, and anxious for a cordial preservation of 
the Union, is desireous, as I am informed by the President, that the affair should be com- 



706 Continental Congress 

detained from setting out for Virginia by this circumstance, having 
fixed on yesterday for the purpose. I shall probably get away to-morrow 
and possibly this afternoon. 4 .... 

803. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon. 1 

New York March 6th 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 The most important business now before Congress is an appli- 
cation from Kentucky to be set off from Virginia and to be received into 
the union as a Sovereign State, in which Virginia agrees to concur on 
certain conditions : that she shall be released from a proportion of her 
federal obligations etc. this is not a time for the determination of so 
important a subject, but it is so strenuously urged and the people of that 
Country are become so jealous and irritable as to require the most delicate 
management, how it will terminate is yet uncertain. 3 Mr. Wingate desires 
his best regards to you. 

804. Nathan Dane to Samuel Holten. 1 

New York March 15, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I arrived here the 20th of last month. There has been a Congress 
most of the time for two months past and part of the time nine States 
assembled but we do but very little business. Indeed we have but very 
little to do. It does not appear to be the intentions of Congress to engage 

premised if possible by Mr. Pierce and self, without any report being made by the Com- 
mittee to Congress. He wishd, in an accidental meeting, ' that the Assembly of Virginia, or 
the Governor, had Vested me with powers to enter on the business, for it woud be a damnd 
disagreeable piece of work to bring before Congress '. General Irvine, with whom I 
have had free conversation, professes the same sentiments. ... If the Committee should 
be influenced by the same temper of mind, which governs Wadsworth and Irvine, Mr. 
Pierce will very probably, either be induced, by their private recommendation, to recind 
his former opinions so far, as to meet me on such terms, as I should think myself 
Justifiable in closcing with ; or will resign his appointment ; and which, I have some 
reason to believe, would be immediately tilld by some gentleman disposd to make short 
and liberal work of it." See further Heth's letter of Mar. 21, ibid., p. 414. Cf. nos. 807, 
809, 819, 821, 829, post. During his mission to Congress on this business Heth kept a 
diary of his negotiations, interviews, etc. (Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries), 
from which occasional excerpts have been used in appropriate places in these pages. 

* To Washington Madison wrote, " I am preparing to set out for Orange, and 
promise myself the pleasure of taking Mount Vernon in the way ". To Pendleton he 
wrote, "I am just setting out for Virga. and shall not write again from this place". 
Washington made note of Madison's visit thus : " Tuesday, 18th. . . . Mr. Madison 
on his way from New York to Orange came in before dinner and stayed all night. Wed- 
nesday, igth. Remained at home all day. Thursday, 20th. Mr. Madison (in my car- 
riage) went after breakfast to Colchester to fall in with the Stage." Fitzpatrick, Diaries 
of George Washington, III. 313. 

[8o3] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 15. 

2 The omitted passage is mainly a lament over the adjournment of the New 
Hampshire convention without ratifying the Constitution. As a citizen of New Hamp- 
shire and a friend of his country he is mortified and fears the effect upon other states. 
He mentions that Madison has just left for Virginia and hopes his influence will counter- 
act the bad effects of New Hampshire's backsliding. 

• See no. 761, ante, the Journals, Feb. 29, Mar. 4, May 30, June 2, July 3, and 
nos. 804, 806, 807, 818, 819, 832, 846, 848, post. 

T804] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York. 



March, 1788 707 

in any important business, an adjournment has been mentioned for a 
few months, the reasons offered against it are such as were offered 
against an adjournment last year with which you are well acquainted. 
Many of the members are of opinion that the particular situation of our 
public affairs at this time requires that Congress should be in sessions and 
the forms of the Government kept up. 2 ... . Matters seem to be in a 
state of quiet in Europe at present but I do not think they will remain 
so long, we hear nothing from that quarter that respects us particularly 
except that our friends the Dutch are very pressing for their interest 
money and I expect Congress will make a short statement to the States on 
this subject. The States must apply some small sums at least to the use 
of the Union or the Federal Government must be dissolved. I am at a 
loss to know how the board of Treasury have done so well as they have 
to pay the civil list, the Dutch interest and troops in a considerable part. 
I believe the Union has been supported almost wholly for a year or two 
past on the payments of New York, the gleanings of new Emission money 
and a little tobacco from North Carolina. 3 

We have as usual much said about an India [n] war. I doubt whether 
there will be anything more than party disputes among the plundering 
individuals. 

Kentucky and Virginia have form[al]ly applied to Congress to -acknowl- 
edge Independance of the former and to admit it into the Union. Nothing 
of importance has yet been done in Congress relative to the subject and 
probably there will not be at present. 4 .... 



805. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

N: y: March 17th, 1788. 
dear Madison, 

Niether the french or the english packets have yet arrived, which is 
not a little extraordinary. 

not a syllable of domestic news but what the enclosed papers will exhibit 
to you. 

The Marchioness 2 is a good deal better, and wants exceedingly to be 
present at the Indian Treaty ; I think the Governor General 3 can do 
nothing less than take so sweet a companion in his Train; but he seems 
to be averse from the plan. 

I think the french Minister confines himself at home too much. I am 
sorry he does not mix more with the Inhabitants. 4 

2 Cf. no. 788, ante, and no. 812, post. 
* Cf. no. 853, post. 

4 See no. 803, ante, and nos. 806, 807, 818, 819, 832, 846, post. 
[805] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 Madame de Brehan, sister-in-law of the French minister, the Comte de Moustier. 
See Jefferson to Madison Oct. 8, 1787 (Writings, IV. 460), and to Madame de Brehan 
Mar. 14, 1789 (ibid., V. 78). Cf. nos. 810, 844, 851, 856, post. 

3 Arthur St. Clair, governor of the Northwest Territory, who had been instructed 
to negotiate a treaty with the northern Indians. See nos. 741 (note 5), 747, 749, 755, ante. 

4 Cf. no. 794, note 2, ante, and nos. 831, 856, 953, post. 



708 Continental Congress 

My dear friend — I have been very sick for 4 or 5 days past, but I hope 
to attend Congress on Wednesday. 

I have sent forward your letter to G. L. Turberville esq : 
I thank you for calling upon my little people in Phil. 
I am dear M. with the highest consideration etc. 

C: Griffin 

806. William Irvine to Thomas FitzSimons. 1 

New York 17th March 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

The enclosed extracts from a solemn application, made by the Delegates 
of Virginia, by the Joint desire of the District of Kentucky, and Virginia, 
will shew you that however improper this hasty, and I may say peremptory 
mode of application may be, and ill timed too, yet it involves so many 
consequences, whichever way Congress may decide, it brings them into 
a dilemma, some Gentlemen are of opinion that no new State can be 
admitted under the present Confederation, others fear, that, if they should 
be rejected now, they will not come in when we wish them, instance 
Vermont. 

There is no doubt I think but they will be an independent state next 
Deer, whether Congress accede or not. this circumstance alone is all that 
has any weight in my mind, as it is an important business, and not much 
time perhaps for deliberation, or consultation, I confess I feel myself 
more at a loss how to vote, than on any question that has been agitated 
in my time in Congress, should you deem it of importance as I do, I am 
persuaded I need not make any apology for requesting you to favor me 
with your opinion on the subject, when a leisure moment will permit. 2 

807. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

New York March 22d 1788. 
Sir, 

.... I think Mr. Wingate informed your Excellency of the applica- 
tion of Kentucky to be set off as a separate State and taken in to the union ; 
which Virginia will accede to on condition of her being exonerated from 
a proportion of her federal obligations etc. The affair has been once 
debated in Congress in Committee of the whole and postpon'd, since which 
it has not been taken up. It is an application that cannot, in the present 
State of affairs be complied with, but there is such a spirit of avulsion 
among the people of that Country they are so impatient and importunate 
as to make it a subject that requires, at this critical juncture, the most 
prudent management. 2 An other disagreeable affair between the United 
States and Virginia is now before Congress. The Conditions on which 

[806]' From the collection of the late D. McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 29, Mar. 4, May 30, June 2, July 3; also nos. 803, 804, 
ante, 807, 818, 819, 832, 846, 848, Post. 
[807] » N. H. State Papers, XXI. 844. 

2 Sec nos. 803. 804, 806. ante. 818, 819, 832, 846, 848, post. 



March, 1788 709 

the western lands were seeded by that State to the union were that Virginia 
should be allowed for the necessary and reasonable expences she had in- 
curred in subduing the british posts, maintaining forts etc. in that Country 
— The accounts to be adjusted and liquidated by a majority of three Com- 
missioners. The Commissioners have been setting all winter in Virginia, 
two of whom thinking it unjust to allow Virginia her enormous claims 
and being about to report, the Legislature (then setting) interposed, stopt 
their proceedings and made an appeal to Congress, in language correspond- 
ing to their Ideas of their own omnipotence. I think Congress will order 
the Commissioners to proceed and make report, and whether Virginia 
will then assume the rights of Judge and jury, with hold all monies and 
endeavor to reclaim the seeded territory, as she threatens, time only will 
discover — they seem disposed to avail themselves of the Spirit of the 
times to obtain unreasonable demands. In this, however, I believe they 
will be disappointed and should they hasten a general occursion It is hardly 
supposable that they will escape the evils attending it. 3 .... 

808. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Sullivan). 1 

New York March 23d, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Had it been pleasing to the preserver of Man, in the Super abundance 

of his tender mercies to, to have removed P y with M n 2 to the 

regions of darkness, I am induced to think the new System of govern- 
ment would have been adopted — but the delay in our backsliding State 
has rendered it much more doubtful in my mind that it had been at any 
period since the Completion of the plan, the opposition is now reduced 
to System, the leaders are known to each other and are indefatigable in 
their exertions. If they succeed I am apprehensive the sword will soon 
be drawn and your Excellencys early prediction be verified. I am by no 
means without hope of tranquility, though I think appearances are very 
alarming .... 

809. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 

(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York March 23d, 1788. 
Sir, 

The Claim of Virginia arrising from the N Western Territory is still 
before a Committee of Congress 2 

3 See no. 802, ante, and nos. 807, 809, 819, 821, 829, 859, post. 
[808] x Library of Congress, New Hampshire Papers, Misc. 

2 He means no doubt Patrick Henry and George Mason, whose opposition to 
the Constitution appeared to endanger its adoption in Virginia and consequently to 
threaten its ultimate defeat. 

[809] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Griffin and Brown); Cal. Va. 
State Papers, IV. 414. 

2 See nos. 802, 807, ante, 819, 821, 829, post. The delegates enclosed with their 
letter one from Colonel Heth to the governor, dated Mar. 21 (Cal. Va. State Papers, 
IV. 414). 



710 Continental Congress 

Colo. Heath is right in Opinion that more advantageous terms may be 
obtained by Negotiation than after a well digested Report. 

At present we think it a reasonable expectation that if the Commissioner 
on the part of Virginia was Authorised to enter again upon the Business 
it might be Adjusted fully as much to the Satisfaction of the Common- 
wealth as the Nature, Circumstances, and Situation of things will Warrant 

810. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

N : York 24 March 1 788. 
My dear Sir, 

before the date of this letter I hope you are gotten safe to Orange, and 
found all things in a situation the most agreeable. 2 

We are still going forward in the same tract of seven states, of course 
not a great deal can be done, and indeed not a great deal to do. 

A prospect of the new Constitution seems to deaden the activity of 
the human mind as to all other matters ; and yet I greatly fear that con- 
stitution may never take place; a melancholy Judgment most certainly 
— and would to heaven that nothing under the Sun shall be more 
erroneous! . . . . 8 

Neither of the packets have yet arrived, and what has detained the 
french no one at this place can determine. 

Not a word from our Ministers abroad. 

Congress have taken final leave of the Chavalier by a very polite and 
friendly letter. 4 

The Marchioness is recovering rapidly, and the Count in good health ; 
I mention them because they entertain a very exalted [opinion] of you 
and talk much upon that subject. 8 

Daniel Shays and Eli Parsons have petitioned the Legislature of Massa- 
chusets for pardon — and will succeed. 

The frequent attacks upon the post-office has produced the inclosed 
performance. 8 

The customary papers are sent to you within this cover. 

[810] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 541. 

2 See no. 802, ante. 

8 Some remarks respecting problems of ratification are here omitted. 

4 The letter, reported by the secretary for foreign affairs, is in the Journals 
Mar. 18. A letter from the Chevalier de la Luzerne, written from Paris, but without 
date, transmitting the king's letter to Congress announcing his recall, dated Sept. 30, 
1787, was laid before Congress by Secretary Jay on Feb. 1, and the letter of Mar. 18 was 
the response. The letter of the king and that of Luzerne are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, I. 246-248. Jay's report, dated Mar. 13, is ibid., p. 248. 

6 See no. 805, note 2, ante. 

8 It is not certain what the enclosure was. On Feb. 20 a committee was ap- 
pointed on a motion of Jonathan Dayton for preventing irregularities in the transporta- 
tion of the mail, and renewed Mar. 27 ; but Dayton's motion is not found in the Journals. 
On May 2 a representation of Benjamin Contee, dated Mar. 17, that a letter of his had 
been opened in the post office, was referred to the postmaster general, who made a report 
May 6. Postmaster General Hazard's explanation of how Contce's letter was acci- 
dentally mutilated is of particular interest as a record of one of the practices of the 
service at that time. His report was, in turn, referred to a committee May 13, but no 
action appears to have been taken, as the report is listed among those not acted upon at 
the close of the year (see the appendix to the Journals for 1788). Cf. no. 822, post. 



March, 1/88 711 

811. Pierpont Edwards to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New Haven March 26th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I agreed to go to Congress in May, or, for a few Weeks only, at an 
earlier period, if my presence, for particular purposes, should be necessary, 
these particular purposes cannot now be answered by my going. No money 
can be had of the State at present, And, to answer your question " will 
you come on or not ", I say I will not untill the begining of May. 2 

812. Paine Wingate to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York, March 29th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I have been in New York since February 10th, and find my 
situation as agreeable as I could expect, considering that I am very 
domestic, and habituated to an active life. I have nothing very important 
to communicate to you. The subject which engages the general attention 
at this time is the new Constitution. What will be the fate of it is yet 
uncertain ; but those who are well-wishers to their country, and best know 
the situation we are in, are the most sensible of the necessity of its adoption, 
and great pains are taken to obtain the end. On the other hand, there are 
powerful opposers to it, who avail themselves of some popular objections, 
and they are too successful with the less knowing part of the country. 

.... The important decision upon the subject cannot be known before 
the last of July ; and, at any rate, I do not see that the new Constitution 
<:an be got to as early as December next. Nothing but the hope of a new, 
can, I fear, keep the old Constitution from dissolution long. " Sed nun- 
quam in re Republica desperandum." The newspapers are so filled with 
lies that no dependence can be put on any account you receive in them 
respecting the Constitution. 

.... If Congress should not adjourn, which yet is uncertain, it is 
likely that I shall remain in this place until October next. 2 

813. Pierpont Edwards to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New Haven March 31st 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you on Wednesday last, in which I informed you that I cou'd 
not go to New-York till the beginning of May : 2 Since that time I have 
determined to put my going to Congress upon an issue that will certainly 
exonerate me from blame. I have therefore written to His Excellency — 
A Copy of my Letter to him is inclosed — And if the Public will furnish 
me with money I will be with you in four days after it comes to hand. 

[8n] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Wadsworth Papers. 

2 See no. 813, post. 
[8i2] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XIX. 125: Life of Wingate, I. 222. 

2 See nos. 788, 804, ante. 
[813] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc., Wadsworth Papers. 

2 See no. 811, ante. 



712 Continental Congress 

814. Abraham Baldwin to Joseph Clay (?). 1 

New York 31st March 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour by Capt. Burnham with the cask of Indico were duly 
received. 2 

I was much obliged by your very particular information respecting 
Indian affairs, the greater part of the time we are without any informa- 
tion from georgia. I have written the Governor constantly, ever since 
I left the state, and have never received a line, or known whether any of 
my letters arrived. 

Our situation with our near neighbours on both sides, has been for 
some time critical, and a ground of very just uneasiness. The intentions 
of the majority of congress respecting our Indian affairs, I am convinced, 
has been very good, merely to adopt a system of measures, in their own 
nature suited to preserve the peace of the United States. There are some 
here who are constantly passionate, and provoking on the subject. Our 
back territory has been considered as a very enviable possession, par- 
ticularly by the back land states. I have assured them, it is want of 
experience on that subject, that makes them think so. I have seen by the 
papers that uneasy apprehensions have been entertained of the conduct 
of the Spaniards. I had several times in free conversation with Mr. 
Gardoqui, who is a very free and friendly man, hinted to him, that I 
feared, we should loose that respect that we had entertained for their good 
policy, by some of their late proceedings; he always has denied every such 
suggestion. A few days since, on the arrival of the Spanish packet, he 
called on me, and said he was very glad to have it in his power to inform 
me, and he did inform me officially, that the King had given pointed 
orders to the Governors of their Provinces, to endeavour to preserve 
peace between the United States and the Indian nations, and to do nothing 
to disturb it. 8 

I believe we are to find the greatest difficulty among ourselves, to be 
able to manage our own affairs. I have as little confidence in the manner 
in which we take our measures, but feel myself greatly encouraged by 
the prospect that our state politicks will be soon on a different footing. 
A man who hopes for any happiness in society cannot want for induce- 
ments to use all his information and influence on that occasion. I know 
your prospects of any good under our old goverment have long been 
very small; but may I not hope, that the political horizon is brightening 
so that you will think it worth a while to go aboard and help ? 

We have had a congress this winter but a small part of the time ; the old 
simile of money being the sinews, must convince you that we must be in 
a very paralytic state at present. Maryland convention is to meet the 
2 1 st of April, South Carolina and Maryland are counted upon as sure, 

[814] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Federal Convention, p. 54. 
2 This letter is not in Letters of Joseph Cloy. 

*Cf. Gardoqui to Jay Feb. 8 (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 263, 264), 
and see the Journals, Feb. 12; also no. 831, post. 



April, 1788 713 

where to find the ninth, is matter of anxious enquiry. The prospects from 
the other five are unpromising. 

There is nothing from abroad worth communicating. I send to Mr. 
Johnson, 4 all the late Newspapers, to which I beg leave to refer you for 
the political chat from this part of the Union 

815. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York April 3d, 1788. 
Sir, 

We have been honour 'd with your Excellency's Letters of the 7th and 
13th Ulto. The Business therein refered to shall be immediately sub- 
mitted for the consideration of Congress and shall command our particular 
Attention. 

No application from any of the other States ^to prolong the Period 
within which they are to adjust their Claims against the United States 
has as yet been made to Congress ; but still we trust that the application 
in behalf of Virginia for that purpose will not be rejected. 2 

816. Samuel Alleyne Otis to George Thatcher. 1 

[April 6 (?), 1788.] 2 
Dear Sir, 

.... We are here in the old Style, Six States only. Reed and Wads- 
worth gone home about the time or since your departure ; yet it will not 
do to abdicate the Government. 3 I have reason to fear no adoption will 
take place this year, and I am in formed the people of Massachusetts are 
very uneasy, That R I have and N Hampshire certainly will reject. At 
this moment all hands are parliamenteering. By the time you wish the 
result may be known. Detail every circumstance, For Trifles are important 
in connexion with our Country 

4 Probably James Johnston, the printer. 

[8i5] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Griffin and Brown); (7a/. Va. 
State Papers, IV. 421 (extract). 

2 Governor Randolph's letter of Mar. 13, requesting an extension of time for 
the settlement of the accounts between Virginia and the United States, was laid before 
Congress May 5 and referred to the board of treasury, who reported May 7 against the 
extension of time. See no. 842, post. For subsequent action see nos. 866, 873, 875, post. 

[816] 1 Hist. Magazine, XVI. 353. 

2 There is little in this letter (some parts are omitted in the printed text) to 
enable the date to be fixed with more than an approximate degree of definiteness. It is 
assigned to Apr. 6 on three grounds : First, in the beginning of the letter Otis speaks 
of "making up my weekly packet", and, as there is a letter of Apr. 13 (no. 822, post), 
Apr. 6 is a reasonable conjecture. Secondly, he mentions the departure of Reid and 
Wadsworth " about the time or since your departure ". Thatcher left on Mar. 27 (see 
no. 833, note 3, post), Wadsworth appears to have last attended on Mar. 31, and Reid 
on Apr. 1. Thirdly, in a passage omitted here he says, " I have a wish to hear from 
you, to know what communications you made to the House, How you get along ", etc. 
This suggests that it is Otis's first letter to Thatcher after the latter's departure. 

8 Cf. no. 817, post. This remark may also have a bearing on the question of 
date, as Griffin's remark shows that the question of giving up the struggle of trying to 
hold Congress together was being discussed in early April. 



714 Continental Congress 

817. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

My dear Sir, 

Colonel Wadsworth has thought proper to leave us, and his state being 
unrepresented we are again reduced to six only, and probably may con- 
tinue in that situation a week or two longer, the N. York delegates do 
not attend, it seems to me the period is fully arrived to close the Con- 
federation. 2 .... 

N: Y: April 7th [1788.] 

818. James Madison to George Nicholas. 1 

Orange 8 april 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress had come to no decision when I left N York, on the 
proposed separation of Kentucky. Nine States had been but a few days 
only on the floor, and were then engaged on the subject. I waited as long 
as I possibly could in hopes of seeing something done, but was not grati- 
fied; and I learn by subsequent information that the Representation soon 
fell to seven States, which had suspended the consideration of the subject. 
The opposition to the measure had not fully shewn itself when I came 
away. It will proceed chiefly from a scruple drawn from the peculiar 
State of our affairs, and from the defect of power under the existing Con- 
federation. There are individuals who will throw obstacles in the way, till 
Vermont can be let in at the same time, and others, I suspect, who will 
do the same, with the covert view of irritating Kentucky into an opposi- 
tion to the new Government. Being aware of the influence which the 
temper of Kentucky might have on the event in this State, I was anxious 
that Congress should at once accede to her wishes; without regarding 
scruples which otherwise could not be denied to have weight. I fear 
somewhat that Mr. Brown's anxiety to obtain a favorite point for his 
district, may expose him to impressions from the difficulties I have hinted, 
which will not be auspicious to the present conjuncture of things. This 
however is but conjecture. His judgment I have reason to believe is 
favorable to the New Government as it relates to the general interest of 
America; nor do I know that he views it in a different relation to that of 
Kentucky in particular I know only that pains were taken with him on 
his way to Congress, if not also before he set out, to alarm his fears for 
the Mississippi, and prepare him for unfavorable impressions. I will 
think of the hint you throw out. and will endeavor to give it effect, if I 
can devise any convenient means of success. 2 .... 

[8 1 7] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 564 
(extracts). 

2 Cf. no. 816, ante. 
[818] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers (photostat). 

2 See nos. 803, 804, 806, 807, ante, 819, 832, 846, 848, tost. Madison is replying 
to a letter from Nicholas of Apr. 5 (Library of Congress, Madison Papers; extracts 
relative to the Constitution in Madison's Writings, V. 114 n.). On the Kentucky question 
see Madison to Washington Apr. 10 (ibid.). A letter to Randolph Apr. 10 (tM., p. 117) 
discusses the problems involved in the amendments proposed by Massachusetts and the 
danger of permitting disunion sentiment to insert an entering wedge. 



April, 1788 715 

819. John Brown to James Madison. 1 

New York April 9th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I herewith inclose you two Letters which were this Morning brought 
for you to our Lodgings — also the News Papers of this day which con- 
tain all intilligence in circulation here worthy your Notice. The French 
Packett arrived a day or two ago (being the first since you left us) I 
hear it has brought some public Dispatches but am not yet inform'd of 
their Contents. 2 Nine States have not appeared in the floor of Congress 
since you left N. York which has prevented any further Consideration of 
the Kentucky Address. 3 No Report has been made as yet upon the 
remonstrance of Virginia relative to Illinois Accounts 4 — indeed scarce 
any thing has been done, for ten days past we have not made a Congress 
being reduced to six States. 

We have had the pleasure to be inform'd of your Election for the 
ensuing Convention, from the returns which I have seen my hopes are 
somewhat revived, should the Back Country be in favor success I think 
is certain. 

820. Charles Thomson to Arthur St. Clair. 1 . 

New York April 11, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Upon my arrival I found a letter from Mr. Etwein enclosing one for 
you which I forward herewith. 2 He informs me that the letter to you is 
from the Agents for the Missions of the United brethren, in behalf of 
the remains of the Christian Indians who were driven from 3 Muskingum. 4 
Such is my Confidence in your humanity that I am sure they will not 
plead in vain. I beg leave to submit to your consideration how far it 
may [be] proper to quiet the minds of the Delaware in Respect to the 
mournful Slaughter of their friends and relations on the Muskingum 
and to remove from their thoughts every idea of its being a measure of 
Government 5 and whether it might not be well, in case they bring for- 
ward a complaint on this account to inform them how much the act was 
disapproved of by Congress and what pain it gave them that the Nations 
who were at war with us should have been the cause or given pretext 

[819] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers (addressed, "The Hon'ble James Madi- 
son Esqr. Orange County"). 

2 There being no quorum of Congress during April, on May 2 the secretary for 
foreign affairs laid numerous letters before Congress that had been received during the 
month. See no. 823, post. 

3 See nos. 803, 804, 806, 807, 818, ante ; cj. no. 846, post. 

4 See nos. 802, 807, 809, ante. 

[820] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 The letter from Rev. John Ettwein, dated Mar. 26, is ibid. Cf. nos. 486, 513, 
520, 556, ante. 

3 Substituted for " so cruelly treated at ". 

4 A clause, " who have suffered so much on account of their dispersion ", is here 
erased. 

5 Erased : " or in any manner approved by Congress ". 

52 



716 Continental Congress 

for the detested deed, by opening a war path through the towns of those 
innocent people and previously removing them to Sandusky 

I hoped to have had the pleasure of seeing you in Philadelphia, but 
when I called I found you were gone to visit your family. I heartily wish 
you success in your negotiations, 6 and happiness in the administration of 
your government, 

821. Paine Wingate to Samuel Lane. 1 

New York, April 12, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have had application made to them from Kentucky to 
be made an independent state. 2 

There is a member in Congress from that country, a clergyman's son, 
who gave me this account. 8 .... 

The vast country northwest of the Ohio was ceded by Virginia to 
the United States upon condition that they should be reimbursed for 
their expenses in defending of it during the late war. This Congress 
agreed to, and commissioners were appointed by mutual consent to ascer- 
tain the sum. The commissioners have not yet reported, and cannot 
easily agree either two of them. One supposes that sixty thousand pounds 
L. M. would be enough, another one hundred and fifty thousand pounds, 
and the other would give them two hundred and twenty thousand pounds 
for their expenses. This would be a dear purchase of that country to the 
United States.* .... 

822. Samuel Alleyne Otis to George Thatcher. 1 

New York 13th April 1788. 
/ h-iir Sir, 

Altho I can only enclose you a barren paper I cannot suffer the post 
to go without directing to you. The No. of Gentlemen present has hardly 
been sufficient since your absence to effect the smallest business; of course 
am unable to give friend Coney [ ?] 2 such an answer upon the extension 
of posts as he wishes, but in answer to his, have written him upon the 
Subject. I think Hazzard is in a bad box. The foederalists frown upon 
him for being anti. The opposers of foederalism charge him hard with 
stoping the papers, and "muzzling the press" to facilitate the ptirj> 
of despotism. I hope they will not oust him, but a little shaking will put 

•That is, in negotiating treaties with the Indians. See nos. 741 (note 5), 747, 
749. 755, 805. ante. 

[Sai] 1 Life of Wingate, I. 224. 

* See nos. 803, 804, 806, 807, 818 (note 2), ante, 832. 846, post. 

•John Brown, the member alluded to, had given Wingate a very glowing ac- 
count of Kentucky. 

* See nos. 802, 807, 800, 810, ante, 829, 859, post. 
[8aa]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., M. O. C 

* The allusion is no doubt to the petition of the inhabitants eastward of Portland. 
Massachusetts, for the establishment of a post between Portland and Pownalborounli. 
read in Congress Feb. 27, upon which Postmaster General Hazard reported, Mar. 5. 
"that it will be both prudent and expedient to grant the Prayer of the Petition". 



April, 1788 717 

him right. The offircers [sic'] of Congress will receive no injury by 
shaking. 5 

The parties are hard at it here, and in Virginia. Tis said Clinton will 
be candidate for the City, and will carry it for Ulster County 4 

[P. S.] Sunday Evening 5 

.... Congress have never been in session since your departure, and 
there are only six States who will attend. N Y have indeed a representa- 
tion in Town but one of the members is so engaged in private business 
he cannot attend. 6 .... 

The old influence is exerting to get to Philada. but presume it will hardly 
obtain. 7 Mr. Preces 8 has got Madam there and I suspect she is averse 
from any farther advances East. But it must be done. I have no violent 
attachment for this place but at any rate tis more healthy than Pensilvania. 

823. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

My dear Sir, 

The french packet has at length arrived, but after a passage so long 
nothing new and National could be expected. 2 

Mr. Jefferson writes a very short letter, but not a word of Intelli- 
gence 

Mr. Adams has written a letter by the british packet of december 16th. 
he is preparing to leave England and seems to regret that Colo. Smith 
could not be honored with some appointment from Congress — he tells us 
that the Netherlands are still in great confusion, that the Russians are 
carrying on the war against the Turks with great vigor, and perhaps will 
soon be assisted by the Emperor, and that in all probability the war may 
extend a good deal farther, that the peace between France and Britain 
may not continue a long time, and that our essential business will be 
neutrality, he approves highly the proposed Constitution. 3 .... 

3 Cf. no. 810, note 6, ante. 

4 Four or five lines of personal matters, Completing the letter as originally written 
and signed, are here omitted. One remark is, " Mr. D [Nathan DaneJ is so studious 
he seldom times his muscles to a smile ". See note 5, below. 

5 Presumably the evening of the same day on which the preceding letter was 
written. The 13th was Sunday. In the long, chatty letter that follows Otis acknowledges 
receipt of a letter from Thatcher, dated at Boston Apr. 6, expresses surprise at the 
governor's " petulence, precision, or what ever you please to denominate it ", because 
a letter of the delegates had been addressed to the legislature instead of to the gov- 
ernor (Hancock). " We are by Constitution", he adds, "the officers not of the governor, 
but of the Legislature." There is also a further elucidating remark respecting his col- 
league, Nathan Dane : " When I told brother D ' you loved him ' he smiled, but when I 
hinted some new objections against the new System, he was quite visible; Decended from 
the heights of philosophy and speculation, and was for half an hour, meer mortal." 

6 Probably Hamilton is meant. Cf. nos. 828, 831, post. 

7 Cf. nos. 636, 637, 643, 656, 661, 788, 804, ante, 889, 890, 900, 902, 904, 906, 
907, post. 

8 President Cyrus Griffin. 

[823] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 819, ante. 

3 On Apr. 11 Jay reported two letters of Adams, one of Nov. 30, which en- 
closed the king's speech at the opening of Parliament, and the other of Dec. 16 {Dipt. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 817, 824). On Apr. 18 he reported letters of Jefferson 



718 Continental Congress 

Brown begs his best respects to you — nothing yet done with Kentucky, 4 
or the 111 i . matters. 5 

Accept the enclosed paper. 

N:Y: April 14th [1788.] 

824. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

Dcar Sif New York, April 14th, 1788. 

The congratulations of so kind a friend I receive with the utmost 
pleasure. 

Accept my thankful acknowledgments for your Excellency's very oblig- 
ing Letter and very polite attention. 

By the last Vessels from Europe we are told that the Netherlands are 
still in great Confusion. That Russia is carrying on War against the 
Turks with uncommon vigor, and perhaps will be powerfully assisted by 
the Emperor, that in all probability the horrid flame may be extended 
much further, and that in truth the Peace between France and England 
will not continue any considerable time. 

This being the appearance of things abroad, I hope the United States 
at home will adopt a Constitution beautiful in theory and which will be 
found a Government of Safety and of Energy. 2 

825. Charms Ti.ttit to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Benjamin Franklin). 1 

.,. Philadelphia, 14th April, 1788. 

After my Return from New York in May last, I presented an Account 
to the Comptroller General in order to obtain a warrant from Council 
for a few weeks Pay as a Member in Congress. Considering it as a Busi- 
ness of course I neglected farther Application for some Time, but was at 
length told that Doubts had arisen in Council whether I was entitled to the 
Pay stated in the account or not. These Doubts seem to haw arisen on one 
or other of the two following suppositions. 

Dec. 31 and Feb. 5 (ibid., pp. 126, 131). These were all laid before Congress May 2. 
On the same day the board of treasury (report dated Apr. ~) laid before C ofl g r c ai a 
letter from Willinks and Van Staphorst, Jan. 18, relative to the Dutch loan and. in a report 
dated Apr. 21, a letter from Jefferson, Feb. 7 (ibid., p. 141). on the same lubject See 
also Jefferson to Adams Dec. 13, 17H7 (ibid., p. 120). In a letter to the board of 
treasury Mar. 29 Jefferson again discusses the problem of the Dutch loan (ibid.. 
extract). The original letter (five autograph pages) is in N. Y. Hist. Soc., Duer 
Papers, vol. II. See further nos. 832, 834, 850, 854, post. Jay's reply to Jefferson, Apr. 
24, is in Dipt. Carr. I'. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 140, and Correspondence of Jay. III. 326. 
Concerning Jefferson's letter of Dec. 31 see further the Journals, May 5, and no. 847, 
note 2, post. 

* See nos. 803. 804. 806. 807. 818 (note 2). ante, 832, 846, 848. post. 

5 See nos. 802, 807, 800. 819, ante, X20. 8v>, post. 
[824] « N. C. State Rees., XXI. 464. 

- In the letter to Madison Mar. 24 (passage omitted from no. 810, ante) Griffin re- 
marks, "The constitution is bea utifu l in Theory. I wish the experiment to be made. 
in mv opinion it would he found a government of sufficient energy only ". 
[825]' Pa. State Uh., P. I'. CXI. IV.; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 266." 



April, 1788 719 

1st. That the Assembly, by the Election of Gen. Armstrong" intended to 
supercede my Appointment, or 

2dly. That the Time limited by the Constitution for my Continuance, 
was expired before I gave the Attendance for which I have claimed Pay. 

As to the first, I am far from questioning the Right of the Assembly to 
supercede any one of their Delegates whenever they think proper. But 
having never received any Intimations of their Disapprobation of my Con- 
duct as a Delegate, I cannot suppose they intended to brand me with so 
unusual a Mark of Displeasure. 

As to the second. — The Federal Constitution limits the Service of Mem- 
bers to three years. It was for some Time doubted whether the three years 
should be computed from the Time of their respective appointments, or 
the Time of taking their Seats in Congress ; but the words being that " no 
Person shall be capable of being >a Delegate for more than three years in 
any Term of six years," the former Construction has prevailed. The words 
of Limitation in the Constitution of Pennsylvania are " no man shall sit 
in Congress longer than two years successively." Hence it has been gen- 
erally understood that the two years, so far as this Limitation applies, com- 
mence at the Time a Delegate takes his Seat in Congress, and this Con- 
struction has prevailed in Practice. 2 

Those who best know me will do me the Justice to believe, that altho' 
I was duly sensible of the Honor conferred upon me by the Appointment, 
I was far from soliciting it ; and that I should have been equally far from 
obtruding my Services in this last Period of Attendance if I could have 
supposed they would have been either deemed unacceptable or founded on 
doubtful Authority. I therefore take the Liberty of stating to your Ex- 
cellency and the hon'ble the Supreme Executive Council my view of the 
Subject at the Time of the Transaction. 

In April 1785, The Legislature did me the Honor to elect me a Dele- 
gate. Being a Member of the House at the Time, I had some Doubts, in 
point of Delicacy of accepting the appointment, and had actually refused 
at a former Session to permit my Name to remain in the List of nomina- 
tions ; but it was again urged so warmly that I did not absolutely refuse, 
neither did I announce an Acceptance till some Time after the Session 
ended. In May I received the Credentials of my Appointment, and on the 
27th of that Month I presented them and took a Seat in Congress. In the 
November Session following I was again appointed for the ensuing year. 
In November, 1786, I received a third appointment. As the Constitutional 
Limitation would admit but a few Months Continuance under this appoint- 
ment, it was to me both unexpected and undesired ; but being at New York 
at the time, and considering it as an honorable Testimony of Approba- 
tion which demanded my Gratitude, I accepted and continued to act under 
it till the Arrival of a sufficient number of my honorable Colleagues en- 
abled me to retire for some Time without leaving the State unrepresented. 
This had so seldom happened before, that I felt the stronger occasion to 
avail myself of the Relief, and remained absent from Congress till the 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. 23, May 13, 15, 1784, Sept. 6, 1785; cf. these 
Letters, vol. VI., pp. 2-4, vol. VII., passim (index, Qualification of delegates). 



720 Continental Congress 

beginning of April 1787, during which Time so many States were unrep- 
resented that little Progress was made in Business. Considering that the 
Time limited by the Constitution for my Continuance in the Delegation 
would expire on the 26th day of May, I began to decline the Thought of 
returning to that Duty ; but there were then but two Delegates from this 
State at New York, one of whom was by his Station precluded from the 
ordinary Duties of a Member, 3 and the other having signified to me his 
Desire to be relieved by a particular Day at which he must withdraw him- 
self for a Time : recollecting moreover that some Matters of Business wen 
likely to be resumed in Congress which my honorable Colleagues had had 
less opportunity of investigating than myself, I thought it my duty to 
give my Attendance tho' it should be but for a few weeks. On the Day of 
my arrival in Congress, General Irvine, who had been impatiently wait- 
ing for a Relief, departed. 4 I had heard that General Armstrong was 
elected and supposed that the Intention was to guard against a Vacancy 
when my Time should be expired, but had no Reason to suppose it 
designed to affect my Continuance during that Time, nor did I receive any 
notification of such Election otherwise than from common Report, neither 
did I know till sometime after I went to Congress that the Gentleman 
elected had determined to accept the appointment. On his arrival at New 
York sometime afterwards, 8 I obtained a sight of his Credentials and con- 
sulted with him and the President of Congress on the occasion, intending 
to retire immediately if I should discern the least Intimation that such had 
been the Design of the Legislature ; but nothing of the kind appearing, I 
continued my attendance in Congress till about the 18th or 20th of May 
when I withdrew, supposing my Time of Service to be within a few 1 1 
of expiring by the Limitation. 

I have taken the Liberty to ask the Attention of your Excellency and 
the hon'ble Council to these Particulars not so much with a view to the 
Sum I have claimed, however desirable it may be to me, as in order to 
remove the Appearance of Censure which a Refusal of it would seem to 
imply, and which I am not conscious of having deserved. 

826. Chaki is Thomson to James McHenrv. 1 

N'iav York April i<>. 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I am sorry I have not been able sooner to answer your letter of the 19 
of last Month. I happened to be in Philadelphia when it reached New 
York. It was transmitted to me and when I received it I was in hopes I 
should have finished my business and returned in a few days. Therefore 

* That is, Arthur St. Clair, President of Congress. The other delegate \ 
William Irvine. 

* Pettit is recorded as voting Apr. 9 (the first recorded rote in April). Irvine 
is recorded as voting on the 10th, as well as on the 9th and probably did not denart 
before the 12th, as a matter pertaining to himself personally, which was laid before Con- 
gress Apr. 9, was not acted upon until Apr. 12 (see no. 626, ante). He was at all events 
absent from the 16th. 

8 Armstrong took his seat on Apr. 18. See no. 629, ante. 
[826J 1 Library of Congress, James McHenry Papers (photostat; accession 32 88A). 



April, 1788 721 

I immediately sent back the letter which was enclosed therein to be for- 
warded by the packet and deferred writing to you until I returned. My 
stay was longer than I expected, and after my return here I reed, your 
second letter of the 12 of this Month and at the same time an account of 
your election. I hope, not [with] standing the choice made by the counties 
of An[ne Arundel,] Baltimore and Harford, that the elections [blotted 
out] are such as will ensure the adoption of the New Constitution; for 
unless that takes place I confess to you my fears for the safety, tranquility 
and happiness of my country are greater than at any period of the late 
war. The present federal government is at the point of expiring. It can- 
not I think survive the present year and if it could experience must have 
convinced every man of reflection that it is altogether inadequate to the 
end designed. What remedy then have we prepared for the train of dis- 
astrous events which must necessarily ensue from a dissolution of the 
Union or what security for our independence peace and happiness as a 
Nation ? 

You ask me what is the amount of the foreign and domestic debt? 
With regard to the foreign debt I beg leave to refer you to the enclosed 
schedule of the f rench and dutch loans shewing the periods of their redemp- 
tion, the annual interest payable thereon and the instalments stipulated for 
discharging the principal. 2 To this you must add about 150,000 dollars 
due to Spain and 186,427 dollars due to foreign Officers also a Million of 
florins which from the failure of the states Congress were under the ne- 
cessity of borrowing last year to defray the interest of the dutch loans and 
other demands in Europe. As to the domestic debt I have to inform you 
that by the last estimate which the board of treasury laid before Congress, 
the amount thereof as far as then liquidated is 28,340,018 dollars. How 
much of this has been actually extinguished by the sale of western ter- 
ritory, I cannot certainly say. The tract which the Ohio company have in 
view to purchase is supposed to be between 5 and 6 Millions of Acres, but 
I believe they have only paid 500,000 dollars. The residue of the pur- 
chase Money is to be paid by yearly instalments and the Company by their 
agreement are at liberty to confine their purchase within the compass of 
their abilities and to take no more land than they are able to pay for. The 
tract which Symmes has agreed for is said to be 2 Million acres and Flint 
Parker and Co. have [app]lied for the purchase of 3 Millions Acres; 
but I believe neither [blotted out'] have yet paid any money. The quantity 
of land surveyed and laid out into townships agreeably to the Land Ordi- 
nance is upwards of 700,000 Acres but of this there is only about 100,000 
sold. As to the land unsurveyed the quantity is immense and in my opinion 
fully adequate to the extinguishment, of the whole debt of the Union, pro- 
vided we can have a firm stable federal government ; but without this I am 
apprehensive the Union will derive little benefit from it. As to the 
amount of the duties on a 5 per cent impost and the expence of the civil 
list under the new government it is altogether conjectural, but of this I am 
confident that the new government if established will from prudential 

2 See no. 760, post. 



722 Continental Congress 

motives encrease the former and lessen the latter as much as possible and 
however proper it may have been judged to vest it with the power of direct 
taxation, it will not proceed to the exercise of that power except in the 
last necessity 

Enclosed I send you the first volume of the foederalist the second volume 
is in the press and will, it is expected be out in the course of a week or 
two. As soon as it is published I will forward it to you. 



827. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

New York April 19th. 1788. 
Sir, 

Since I had the honor to write to your Excellency, of the 21st march* 
the Commotion in Pennsylvania seems to have subsided. The accounts 
from Virginia since their election of Delegates for the State Convention 
are rather favorable, as both parties write that there is a small majority 
east of the mountains in favor of the new system and that the question 
will depend in a great measure on the delegates from Kentuckey. The 
Anti federalists are endeavoring to excite jealousy in that quarter by giv- 
ing it out that the first business of the new Congress will be to Ceede the 
navigation of the Mississippi to Spain if they should not succeed in this 
mischief it is probable the question will obtain in their Convention '* 



828. Nathan Dane to George Thatcher. 1 

New York Apr. 20, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Here we remain in an idle situation we had no Congress since you left 
this place — six States and as many half States attend — the business of 
the union must be neglected, because one or two gentlemen, who are in 
the City, must attend to their private business. 2 .... 

[827] X N. H. Arch., Revolution, XI. 139; Library of Congress, Force Trans., New 
Hampshire Records, Council Correspondence, 1782-1788. 

2 Presumably the letter dated Mar. 22, no. 807, ante. 

• The greater part of Gilman's letter is an account of the riots of the precedinn 
week in New York induced by grave-robbing. " Mr. Jay ", he says, " was very badly 
wounded in the forehead but will probably recover. The Governor, Baron Steuben 
many others more slightly, the poor old Baron has got two black eyes without the least 
consolation, as he execrates his own conduct for being in the action." In a letter to 
Governor Randolph Apr. 16 (see no. 829, note 2, post) William H«th nave an account 
of the riots. " Members on the Governors side ", he wrote, " besides himself, are severely 
bruised. Baron Steuben reed, a wound just above the corner of his left eye and nose, 
from which he lost a great deal of blood. Mr. Jay got his scull almost crack'd, and are 
both laid up. Genl. Armstrong has got a bruis'd leg, but is able to go out." Cf. no. 832, 
post. See also the account given by Jefferson to Carmichael May 27, as from an eye 
witness (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, It 163). 
[S28] 1 Hist. Magazine, XVI. 347. 

*Cf. nos. 822, 825, ante, and no. 831, post. 



April, 1/88 723 

829. The Virginia Delegates to William Heth. 1 

New york 20th Apl. 1788. 
Sir, 

Conceiving that a greater degree of Justice is attainable in an adjust- 
ment of the Account of Virginia against the United States in the present 
State of the business, than is to be expected in any later period, or by an 
agreement of other Commissioners than those now employed, We are of 
opinion that it will be best for you to enter again upon it in this City and 
effect a close at the highest sum you can procure by Compromise or any 
other Mode of Negotiation which to you shall seem most practicable. 2 

830. Abraham Baldwin to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York 20th April 1788. 
Sir, 

Your favour of the 7th of Feby, with the enclosure from Mr. Fanning, 
was duly received. 2 .... 

My expectation is, that the state of Georgia will soon make a cession 
of their western territory to congress. They have long only waited an 
issue of our present great national question, whither they might expect 
protection in return. 3 .... 

831. James White to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York April 21st 1788. 
Sir, 

in consequence of the letter I received from your Excellency, enclosing 
representations from the western country, I urged the subject to the 
Minister of Spain 

[829] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Edward Car- 
rington, signed by him, and also by Brown and Griffin ; addressed, " Colo. William 
Heth Commissioner on the part of Virginia for the Illinois claim"). 

2 See nos. 802, 807, 808, 809, 810, ante. Heth wrote to Governor Randolph Apr. 
16, chafing under the delay necessitated because of not having received a reply to his 
letter of Mar. 24. A postscript to the letter reads : " 18th April. Have opend this [to] 
acknowledge the rec't of your of 7th and 9th Inst, with inclosures" (Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers). On May 5 the committee brought in its report. No action on the 
report is recorded except that it was " to be filed ", and that it was " filed in Iron trunk ". 
On May 15 William Heth and David Henley transmitted to the President of Congress 
a report that they had awarded Virginia 500,000 dollars in full compensation for her 
claims for subduing the British posts, etc. (read in Congress May 23), and on May 24 
the secretary of Congress, in a report laid before Congress May 26, proposed that the 
award " be transmitted to the board of treasury and filed in their office ". See no. 859, 
post. 

[830] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 The letter is not in Jefferson's Writings (ed. Ford.). 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 20, 1787, May 29, July 14, 15, 1788. Cf. nos. 751, 759, 
ante, 831, 832, 838, 859, 887, post. Rufus King wrote to John Langdon Apr. 16: " Georgia 
has ceded upwards of Thirty Millions of acres of land lying between the 31st and 33d 
degrees of lat. and between the Apalachicola and the Mississippi to the United States, 
on condition that nine or more states ratify the new constitution" (Life of King, I. 326). 
Langdon replied, May 6, " The State of Georgia ceding that Territory to the United 
States under certain Restrictions, will have very good effect" (ibid., p. 328). 

[831] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels 
of Philadelphia; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 465. 



724 Continental Congress 

I do myself the honor to enclose a letter from him, which I take to be 
upon this subject. 2 

It gives me pleasure to hear from Doc'r Williamson that he and Mr. 
Swan, mean to attend, here, on the part of our state. 8 But people in gen- 
eral seem in a measure to despair of effecting anything with a sick and 
worn out political constitution. Scarcely has there been a competent number 
of states, the whole winter. Even the delegation for new-York has ne- 
glected attendance, 4 while, in the mean time, business, both of a private and 
public nature, is waiting disappointed. 

That two gentlemen, and not one singly, are coming from the state of 
north Carolina relieves me from an embarrassment I should otherwise 
feel at being under the necessity of leaving this for a time, Tho' my wish, 
and design is to return as soon as I can arange the necessary means of 
support. 

The difficulty of procuring gold, as well as the very advanced rate of it, 
had induced me to trust to my salary, as superintendant of southern 
Indians. But in the present state of their treasury no services to the united 
states can be rewarded. This apology, therefore, I have to make for quit- 
ting tho' reluctantly, and but for a time, an appointment to which my 
country had done me the honor to name me. Shortly I shall be enabled to 
return to it. 6 

I presume you are acquainted of the cession of territory made by 
Georgia. But it is conditional ; when 9 states accede to the new govern- 
ment. 6 The boundary line is to be drawn from the head of Chatahouchi 
river, north. This claim may one day or other involve the united states in 
difficulties with the Spaniards, who hold it to be no part of the united 
states. However, it is very easy to see the government of the catholic 
King is relaxing in its policy in this respect. They begin to be convinced 
these states, especially the western country, are rather to be restrained by 
benevolence than violence. 

On almost the only occasion when nine states have assembled in this 
Congress, a petition from the people of Kentucky, with approbation of 
Virginia, for admitting the former into the union has been debated. The 
eastern states seem much at a loss to decide. They are jealous of any addi- 
tional influence in the southward. But if their partial views are indulged 
they disgust the tramontane people ; 7 . . . . 

It is whispered that, whenever there are states sufficient to take up such 
business Mon'r le Comte de Moustier means to present a memorial to them 
on the subject of the french debt. But I cannot think he will make such a 
representation, as in the present condition of these states can only serve 
to disgust. Tho', indeed, this minister is remarked not to be so courtly 

2 Gardoqui's letter to Governor Johnston, dated Apr. 18, is ibid., p. 464. Johnston's 
reply to Gardoqui, May 8, is ibid., p. 468. 

8 Hugh Williamson attended May 16 (see no. 848, post), John Swann May 29. 
*Cf. nos. 822, 828, ant,-. 

5 See nos. 784, 709, ante. 

6 See no. 830, note 3, ante. 

7 See nos. 803, 804, 806, 807, 818 (note 2), 819, ante, and nos. 832, 846, 848, post. 



April, 1788 725 

in his attentions to congress as his predecessor the chevallier de la 
Luzerne. 8 

The french consul, Mon'r de la Forest, frequently reminds [me] of a 
debt which he is instructed to demand and which he says is due to the 
marine of France from our state. He says he hopes we shall no longer 
delay to pay attention to it. Upon my assuring him our legislature had 
taken up the business in such a manner as was thought a sufficient provi- 
sion ; he answered me, the proceeds were quite inadequate. 9 .... 

832. Paine Wingate to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

New York, April 23d, 1788. 

O XT y 

I am honored with your favor of the third instant, and am happy to 
find that your sentiments respecting the independency of Kentucky, as a 
State distinct from Virginia, coincide with those I had advanced in a com- 
mittee of Congress. There is one idea which your Excellency suggests, 
sufficient I think to evince that the present confederation does not provide 
for the erecting new states out of those already in the Union, namely, 
" because nine states are competent to determine any question before 
Congress," and upon this supposition a minority of the states in the Union 
might be so circumstanced as to decide upon the most important matters. 

This business of Kentucky has not been before Congress but once yet, 
and I believe there will be some very decent excuse found for defer- 
ring the determination at present, without exciting the resentment of 
Kentucky. 2 .... 

And while we have the pleasure of reflecting on this western prospect, 
our European prospects are the most discouraging. Letters from Governor 
Jefferson, of February last in France, inform Congress that it will be 
absolutely necessary to pay the interest of our loans in Holland very 
shortly if we would preserve any degree of credit there; that the supplies, 
expected from the new loan negotiated there, have stopped. And he has 
proposed a very disadvantageous mode of relief to the consideration of 
Congress, without recommending it, only stating our situation. 3 .... 

We have, for some time, not had a Congress, owing to some of the mem- 
bers going home, but it is expected that others will be here in a few days. 
There is considerable business which will claim the attention of Congress 
as soon as the states assemble. 4 .... 

8 See nos. 794, 797, 805, 810, ante, and nos. 844, 856, post. On the same day 
that White was writing, Moustier addressed a letter to Montmorin, discussing the 
question of commerce between the two nations, and incidentally touching upon the pros- 
pect for the establishment of the new government (Am. Hist. Rev., VIII. 725). 

9 See no. 615, note 8, ante. 

[832] l Life of Wingate, I. 227; N. H. State Papers, XXI. 849. 

2 See nos. 803, 804, 806, 807, 819, ante, 846, 848, post. There are some further 
remarks respecting Kentucky. 

8 There follows a summary of the proposition as set forth in Jefferson's letter 
of Feb. 7 to the board of treasury mentioned under no. 823, note 3, ante, with some 
further comments thereon. Cf. nos. 834, 850, 851, 853, 854, post. 

4 Carrington wrote to Madison Apr. 23 : " We have no Congress but it is ex- 
pected we shall have one in a few days — this is a trifling business which I long to see 



72C Continental Congress 

833. George Thatcher to Pierse Lo.\ 

Biddeford 23 April 1788. 

Yours of the fifteenth inst came to hand by the last Post 

You enquire about the fate and settlement of the Western Country. 
To be particular upon this Question would involve answers to so many 
others which would fall insidentally in the way as would be tedious for a 
Letter, and therefore for the present, I shall only observe generally — 
That the Companies of Cutler and Sergent, Flint and Parker, Symms and 
his associates, have contracted for three several Tracts containing not 
more than eight or nine million of acres — to be paid for in Continental 
Securities at certain periods by Installments upon which payments deads 
[sic'] are to be executed to the purchases, but if not paid for no Title is to 
be given, and I believe I am justified in saying that all the payments by 
the three Companies do not exceed half a million of Dollars — and I am 
not certain that it does 270,000 Dollars. For my part I must acknowledge, 
my faith of paying the Domestic Debt, by regular sails of the western Land, 
never was very great. There is Land eno' and that which is excellent. 2 A 
few days before I left New York, 8 1 was in company with the Geographer 
General of the United States and he said, from a calculation he had made, 
he would warrant there was more than two hundred million of acres of 
good Land on the North-west of the Ohio. But to me the Idea of ratling 
this out, and by the neat proceeds of its sails discharging any considerable 
part of the Debt is almost as chimerical as to count upon the number of 
Cod-fish, and Whales in the ocean for that purpose. Not a great many 
purchasers have offered themselves, and few that have could give evidence 
of their ability, and of those that could, still a small number have, and 
probably ever will, freely comply with their contracts. Continental Securi- 
ties have been for several years very low. perhaps lower than they ever 
will be hereafter should the proposed Constitution, or any other with energy 
enough to discharge the Interest be adopted. Hence if purchaser! have 
found it difficult to discharge their Contracts while public Securities have 
been sold from 6/ to 3/ on the pound, what probability is there of their 
being enabled after the adoption of a Constitution that shall secure their 
Redemption, and make them equal to Silver and Gold. 

As to the negotiation of public Treaties, it appears to me the existing ar- 
ticles of Confederation have exhibited to all Europe too evident marks of 
incompentency [sic'] for any national purposes to induce foreign 1 'owers to 
trust to Treaties made under them. The Queen of Portugal has shewn I 
disposition for negotiations of Friendship and Commerce. But here diffi- 
culties arise on the part of America, And perhaps if I were to say that 
Congress cannot command Cash or credit sufficient to support a negotiator 

an end of" (Library of Congress. Madison Papers; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitu- 
tion, II. 464; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 587). 
[833] 1 //i'.t/. Utmncitw, XVI. 347. 

2 See nos. 606-698, 705, 707, 710, 7". 723. 726, 742, 743. 748, 759, ante, and no. 
853, Post. 

8 In a subsequent passage Thatcher says, "When I came from New York, 
which will be four weeks to-morrow morning", etc. This places the time of his de- 
parture as Thursday, Mar. 27. 



April, 1788 T87 

at the Court of Lisbon, to promone [sic~\ and improve any overtures of this 
kind, I should not be far from the truth. Money is universally acknowl- 
edged to be the Sinews of war, and I think it cannot be doubted, to be 
equally necessary to the support of Civil Government, and the formation 
of foreign Treaties. 4 

The Importance of the Navigation of the Masseseppee is a matter I am 

not sufficiently informed to say much about But from the general 

state of that Country there can be but little doubt, that if the navigation of 
the Messeseppee should be beneficial to the American Settlements, they will 
enjoy it. The Idea of Spain's interrupting it is almost inadmissible — 
within 20 Years and upon the Settlement of a good Government the 
Danger will be on the side of Spains Losing her possessions on the West- 
ern Waters, rather than the Americans loosing the Navagation. 5 .... 

834. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Ap'l 24, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I was but a few days ago honoured with your favor of the 21. Decem- 
ber. 2 having been absent on a trip to Virginia ever since the 1st of Jany. 
I was alike cut off from it, and an opportunity of writing you. 3 .... 

I feel sensibly for your situation with our numerous and too justly 
discontented foreign Creditors, nor do I see a prospect of relief before the 
New Government shall get into operation, which must still require some 
time, the proposition for filling up the Loan in holland provided the 
Broker be sufferred to retain 180,000 Guilders the interest of certain cer- 
tificates in his possession of our domestic debt, will not be acceded to by 
Congress, and yet I do not see upon what ground we are to expect that 
loans will be made upon the common principle. I should myself be for 
acceding, because it appears that it would preserve our Credit until it is 
probable the new government would commence, this I think so great an 
object, that I would not stand on a precise adherence to systems. We have 
at present not a competent Congress to act in the Case, but from the senti- 
ments of the members attending, and those of the Board of Treasury, I 
am convinced the terms would not be accepted. I hope the views of our 
Creditors are turned upon the revolution which is about to take place with 

4 The question of negotiations with Portugal had been ambling along for more 
than two years and was to, amble a while longer before being dismissed. See, for in- 
stance, the Journals. Feb. i, May II, Sept. 26, 1786, Feb. 3, 26, Mar. 13, 1787, Feb. 5, 
12, Mar. 13, July 28, 1788, and nos. 506, 581, ante. Concerning the transmission of the 
letter to the queen of Portugal by William Stephens Smith, see Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, II. 680, 681, 738, 802-804, 824, III. 68, 83, 84; also Jefferson to Carmichael 
Sept. 25 {Writings, IV. 449). 

5 In the volume of Historical Magazine from which this letter is taken are 
numerous letters to Thatcher during the time of his service in Congress, but no other 
letter from him. Some of these letters nevertheless reveal the political views of 
Thatcher himself. 

[834] : Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 
587; Bancroft, Formation of the Constitution, II. 464 (extract). 

2 Jefferson's letter is in Writings, IV. 480. 

3 Some comments upon the movements for ratification of the Constitution are 
here omitted. The situation was also set forth by Madison in a letter to Jefferson Apr. 
22 (Writings, V. 120). 



728 Continental Congress 

us, and that they may be induced to continue their patience until time 
shall produce the issue. 4 I apprehend that amongst the first measures of 
the new Government, will be that of negotiating Loans for the purpose of 
satisfying the foreigners to whom the U. S are indebted, as it will require 
some time to bring into practice the resources from which money is to be 
derived. 

I am happy that my information in the case of Commodore Jones ap- 
prised you of the hazards you might have run, and I am at the same time 
pleased that you fell on the expedient of acting safely without disappoint- 
ing him. 8 the business of the prize money which was paid under your 
direction is fully understood by Congress, and I believe every one else 
whose attention has been called to it. 

I am much obliged by your information upon European politics — it is 
true we ought not to entangle ourselves in the affairs of others, where we 
can avoid it, but keeping clear of them depends, in some measure, upon 
knowing their circumstances and views. 8 .... 

835. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 
My dear sir, 

.... Colonel Carrington has gotten among us again, but does not 
seem to be in good spirits — whether from love matters, or from the loss 
of his election in Virginia, or from what other cause I do not know.* 

We expect to make nine states in the course of this week, tho at present 
the weather is very bad 

X: York April 28, [1788.] 

836. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons (P). 1 

My dear Sir, 

I have at length gotten two hundred dollars in Philadelphia bank notes 
which I do myself the pleasure to enclose. I fear they will not answer the 
balance advanced by you but what shall remain I will procure the next 
week — with many thanks for all your kindness and friendship to us. 

I shall endeavor to meet my family upon the road but at what place is 
very uncertain, That depending upon the adjournment of Congress on 
friday or Saturday. I fear they will leave phila. but badly equipped, but 
really I could not help it. a line by the post on friday would be very 
acceptable. 2 

a paper of to day enclosed. 

N:Y: April 30, [1788.] 

* See nos. 823 (note 3). 832, ante, 850, 851, 853, 854, post. 

5 See no. 761, ante. 

a Cf. Jefferson's remarks on this subject, in the letter to which Carrington is 
replying. 

[835] > Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 834, ante. 
[836] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa.. Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 A letter from Griffin to FitzSimons Apr. 27 is chiefly concerned with the 
plans for the removal of his family from Philadelphia to New York. Touching the 
question of his indebtedness he remarks, " for some days past I have endeavored to get 



May, 1788 729 

837. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (John Collins). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 
May 3, 1788 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that your letter of the 5 of April with 
the papers enclosed have been reed, and communicated to Congress. 2 I 
herewith transmit to your excellency to be laid before the Legislature a 
State of the representation in Congress for the Months of March and 
April and am sorry to observe that for the last twelve Months your State 
has not been one day represented. 3 

838. Paine Wingate to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Sullivan). 1 

New York, May 3d, 1788. 
Sir, 

.... Georgia have made a considerable cession to the United States 
of their western lands upon condition that the new Constitution shall be 
adopted and that they be allowed thirty thousand dollars for their expences 
in defending that territory during the late war. 2 

We have not had a Congress until yesterday for some time past, owing 
to two or three members going out of town. Other members are expected 
on daily. There have been no very material dispatches to Congress since 
I wrote to your Excellency last. . . . 

839. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

My dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 I rather incline to believe that in the Course of 12 months we 
shall have the Government in operation. Yet I am not so sanguine as 
Hamilton or Gen. Knox 

Once more we are going on with the business of Congress — but have 
finished nothing of consequence. 

May 5th [1788.] 

a good bill at sight upon Phila. but cannot, but some bank notes are promised in a day 
or two — they shall instantly be remitted ". Copied from the original, then in the 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

[837] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 145. 

2 Governor Collins's letter, which concerned the action of the assembly with 
regard to the Constitution, was laid before Congress May 2. 

3 A letter to the governor of North Carolina acknowledging his letters of Mar. 
19, but otherwise in nearly the same terms as this letter to Rhode Island, is ibid, and 
is printed in N. C. State Recs., XXI. 468. Governor Johnston's letters {ibid., pp. 457-458) 
were likewise laid before Congress May 2. The circular letter to the other states was 
merely to transmit the state of representation. Peleg Arnold of Rhode Island attended 
May 6. 

[838] 1 Life of Wingate, I. 229; N. H. State Papers, XXI. 852. 

2 See nos. 830, 831, ante. 
[839] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 Griffin mentions the accession of Maryland, the expected accession of South 
Carolina, and laments the opposition in Virginia and New York. 



730 Continental Congress 

840. James Randolph Reid to the Vice President of Pennsylvania 

(Peter Muhlenberg). 1 

Philadelphia, 5th May, 1788. 
Sir, 

I am under the necessity of applying for a draught on your treasury, 
there is a considerable sum due me, and as it is a custom with other States 
to be three months in advance with their Delegates, I presume Pennsyl- 
vania are not less disposed to accommodate their delegates than any State 
in the Union, and therefore beg leave to ask for five months pay or £350 
on account. 

[P. S.] I need not mention the State of the paper money, nor do I 
expect to draw the money bad as it is but can make such use of the order 
as will answer present purposes. 2 

X. B. Mr. Nicholson is going abroad. 8 

841. Samuel Alleyne Otis to Benjamin Lincoln. 1 

New York 8th May 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have not been idle, altho they have been so interrupted 
by the appointment of its members to Convention, in one place and another 
that much less has been effected than could be wished. It was however the 
general, and invariable opinion that it would be more expedient that Con- 
gress should continue in sessions, during this uncertain and agitated year, 
even if nothing very important was effected, Than to leave the States 
without any bond of Union, or even the semblance of a foederal Govern- 
ment. Indeed the frequent returns of the states who have been wise enough 
to adopt the new Constitution, renders it amongst other things expedient 
that Congress should continue in sessions 

842. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York May 8, 1788. 
Sir, 

Until a few days ago there has not been a Congress for taking into 
consideration your Excellencies letter of the 13th of March requestir 
prolongation of time allowed for rendering the Accounts of the State 
against the U. S. to the district commissioner. We took the earliest op- 
portunity to lay this letter before Congress, it was referred to the Board 
of Treasury, whose report thereupon we have now the Honor to enclose, 
this report expressly liberates the State Commissioner from the duty of 

[B40] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 280. 

2 See no. 781, ante. 

8 John Nicholson was comptroller general of Pennsylvania. 
[841] ' Maine Hist. Soc., Revolution, no. 5. 

I842] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Carrington, Brown, and Griffin) ; 
( al. I 'a. Slate Papers, IV. 436. 



May, 1788 731 

re-stating the Accounts under the heads directed on the part of the United 
States. He is clearly at liberty to render them in the forms in which they 
have been kept, and the re-statements, if any such are necessary, must be 
made by the district Commissioner. As your Excellencies letter stated no 
facts upon which Congress could found an opinion that an extension of 
the time would be necessary from any other circumstance, and as no appli- 
cation of the kind, has been made by any other State, it was thought best 
by that Body to concur with the Board in refusing the request of Vir- 
ginia, permitting the delegation to transmit the report to your Excellency 
for your more full information. 

We beg leave to recommend that the Commissioner on the part of the 
State immediately tender the Accounts to the district commissioner in 
their original forms, if he has not time to re-state them, and should this 
produce a difficulty let that arise with the adverse party. Should there be 
any particular facts or circumstances putting it out of the power of the 
State Commissioner to render the Accounts according to this advice, it 
will be well for him to state them fully to your Excellency, to be transmitted 
to Congress, when we will endeavour to make them a ground for obtain- 
ing such extension of the time as you may think it necessary to ask for. 2 

843. The President of Congress (Cyrus Griffin) to the 
Governor of North Carolina (Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York, May 8th, 1788. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Resolution 
of Congress upon the Subject of the Delegation. 

Most ardently do I wish and request that the Gentlemen of your State 
would attend upon the National Business and particularly at this inter- 
esting period. 

844. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

My dear sir, 

according to your Questions I shall pay the proper regard to the par- 
ticulars mentioned in letter of april 20th. 

Mr. Paradise was embarked before that letter got to hand, and carried 
with him all the debates, pamphlets etc. to Mr. Jefferson. I will inclose 
to you the Massachusets debates by the first opportunity to Richmond. 2 

2 See no. 815, ante, and the Journals May 5. 7. The report of the board of 
treasury, May 7, is on file with this letter in the Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. See 
further nos. 863, 866, post. 

In the Virginia Independent Chronicle of May 21 is an " Extract of a letter from a 
gentleman in New York to his friend in this city [Richmond] ", dated May 8, 1788, prob- 
ably from one of the Virginia delegates (Carrington ?). "Maryland", says this writer, 
"has shown a glorious example. . . . New Hampshire having adjourned to a long day, 
I suppose will be the last, except R — g — s Island " 

[843] 1 A/'. C. State Recs., XXI. 471. 

[844] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See Madison to Jefferson Apr. 22 ( Writings, V. 120) . The statement respect- 
ing Mr. Paradise is repeated in the letter of May 19 (no. 849, post). In that letter 
Griffin says, " I will purchase the Mass. debates and send them in good time to meet 
you at Richmond". See no. 850, post. 

53 



732 Continental Congress 

Be so good to inform me when you will set out to Richmond that I may 
direct my letters accordingly, the packets brought no Intelligence of 
any moment — the whole was detailed in the news-papers, tho I supposed 
Mr. Jefferson's letters to you might have contained more than his short 
one to Congress. 

Nothing is talked of in London but the Trial of Mr. Hastings, the 
proofs are so strong against him, and the oratory of Mr. Burke so potent 
that in all probability he must suffer. 

The Dauphin still continues very ill. 

The Marchioness 8 received your Com'ts with great pleasure, she and 
the Count most cordially return them, the lady has procured a negroe 
Girl, and only wants a Boy in order that they may breed to use her own 
language. 

only seven states yet — certainly this week we shall have nine. 

N: York May [12? 1788.] 4 



845. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

May 12, 1788. 
Sir, 

Congress being anxious to bring to a close the public Accounts as 
far as they relate to the late Quarter-Master's, Commissaries, Hospital, 
Marine and Cloathing, Departments have passed the Resolutions, which 
I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed. As 
the Order to the Commissioners to commence suits may affect some of 
the Citizens of your State, I have to request that your Excellency will 
be pleased to cause it to be published for the information of all concerned.* 

• Madame de Brtfian. Cf. nos. 805, 810, ante, 844, 851, 856, 953, post. See also 
Griswold, The Republican Court, pp. 91-93. where Madame de Brehan is referred to as 
the sister of Comte de Moustier. She was his sister-in-law. In Canadian Archives, 
1890, p. 226, is noted (in abstract) a letter from Lord Dorchester (at Quebec) to Lord 
Sydney, Feb. 14, 1789 : " Count Moustier .... has applied for leave to visit Niagara 
with his sister-in-law, returning by Montreal and Lake Champlain. Shall express re- 
gret that the honour of receiving him and his sister-in-law must be declined." 

♦Griffin's letters to Madison appear to have been, at weekly intervals, and this 
letter fills a gap (May 5, 12, 19, 26). Besides, the contents appear to place it approxi- 
mately at that date. 

[84s] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; Library of Congress, Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 146; Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 285; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 472. 

2 The resolutions transmitted were those of May 8, adopted in consequence of 
the report of the board of treasury that day, and having their immediate origin in a 
motion of Edward Carrington, May 6, for the appointment of two commissioners for 
the settlement of the accounts of the five great departments. On the same day Jonathan 
Burrall and Benjamin Walker were re-elected commissioners for settling the accounts 
of the five great departments, the first for the quartermaster's and commissary's depart- 
ments, the second for the hospital, marine, and clothier's departments (see no. 348, note 
2, ante). A motion of Nathan Dane May 19 led to further action May 22 relath 
bringing suits in certain cases, and this act was transmitted to the states by Secretary 
Thomson May 26. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 149; Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 293; 
N. C. State Recs.. XXI. 474. 



May, 1788 733 

846. John Brown to James Madison. 1 

New York May 12th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have done very little in Congress since you left us. Nine 
States have not appeared since that time and for a month previous to 
tuesday last we could not even muster Seven. Nine are again shortly 
expected upon the floor, as soon as this is the case I shall endeavour to 
obtain the Determination of Congress upon the Kentucky application. I 
flatter myself that it will be in favor 'tho' still have great reason to fear 
the effects of Eastern Jealousy. My Anxiety upon this Subject daily in- 
creases, should not a determination be had before the expiration of the 
Act of Seperation, or should Congress refuse to grant this request, in 
either case I fear the consequences may be unfavorable to the Union 
especially as that District entertains such prejudices against the new Con- 
stitution which I hope and believe will be adopted. 2 Let the event of 
their application be what it may I am convinc'd they will proceed in 
establishing their Independence They have already chosen Delegates to 
meet in Convention at Danville about the last of July to form a Con- 
stitution .... 

847. James Madison to George Nicholas. 1 

Orange May 17th, 1788. 2 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favor of the 9th inst : several days ago, but have never 
been able till this moment to comply with the request it makes on the 
subject of the Mississippi. 

Many considerations induce me to believe that there is not at present 
any dangerous disposition to sacrifice the right of the U. S. to the common 
use of that navigation. The discussions and enquiries which have taken 
place on that subject, have had a sensible influence on many opinions 

[846] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers, XV. 105; Doc. Hist, of the Consti- 
tution, IV 611. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 29, Mar. 4, May 30, June 2, 3, July 2, 3 ; also nos. 803, 
804, 806, 807, 818, 819, 832, ante, 848, 853, 855, 859, 862, 863, 865, 875-878, 880, post. 

[847] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers (photostat). 

2 On May 17 the secretary for foreign affairs transmitted the following circular 
letter to the several states : 

" Office for Foreign Affairs, 17th May, 1788. 
" Sir, 

" I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed, a Copy 
of an act of his most christian Majesty's Council of State 'for the Encouragement of 
the Commerce of France with the United States of America ' passed the 29th December 
1787, together with a Copy of a Letter on the subject of it from his Majesty's Comp- 
troller General of Finance to the Honorable Mr. Jefferson, dated on the same Day. 

"Although these Papers have already appeared in the Gazettes, yet not having been 
until lately communicated officially to Congress, they could not sooner be published by 
their Authority" (Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 287; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 472). 

These documents had been transmitted by Jefferson with his letter of Dec. 31, 1787, 
which Jay laid before Congress May 2 (report dated Apr. 18). See no. 823, note 3, 
ante, and the Journals, May 5, where it is noted that William Short transmitted the 
documents to Jay Jan. 1, 1788. The documents are conveniently found in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., XL 220-228 (French, with English translation). 



7-' 5 \ Continental Congress 

which had been formed under very partial and erroneous views of it. I 
have reason to believe particularly that the project will not again have 
the patronage of one very influencial quarter. I find also that in States 
whose delegates had the strongest leaning towards the project, there are 
more weighty characters who warmly disapprove of it. I may add that 
some circumstances of a nature not to be particularized, are within my 
knowledge, which have more effect than any thing I have mentioned, in 
justifying the opinion I have expressed. These remarks will themselves 
suggest that they are communicated in confidence. 

As far as any disposition may remain to form a treaty with Spain 
unfriendly to the views of the Western people I think it will be evidently 
diminished by the establishment of the new Constitution. 

The great argument used by the advocates for a temporary cession of 
the American right was that the Union could not cause the right to be 
respected by Spain, that it was dishonorable to assert a right and at the 
same time leave another nation in the full and quiet possession of it, and 
that to exchange it was to get something for nothing. The force of 
this reasoning will vanish with the national impotency of our present 
situation . . . ." 

On these considerations principally I ground my opinion that the 
disposition to cede the Mississippi will be much less under the new than 
it may be under the old system. I am no less persuaded that the form of 
the new system will present greater obstacles to the measure than exist 
under the old. The present Congress possess the same powers as to 
treaties, as will be possessed by the New Government. y$ of the Senate 
will also be required, as 2 /z of Cong's now is. The only difference which 
relates to the Senate is that ^ of a majority of that body will suffice; 
whereas in Cong's there must be 2 /z of the whole number of votes. This 
at first view seems to be a material difference: but in practice it will be 
found if I mistake not, to be much less so. The representation in the 
Senate will be generally full for this very reason that majority will make 
a quorum, and Yi of that number be competent to a decision. The appre- 
hension of important decisions in a thin House will be a spur to the 
attendance of the members. It will be an additional spur that decisions 
when made will have real efficacy. In Cong's the case is different in 
both respects. So great a proportion of the whole body must concur in 
every act, particularly in important acts that the absent States find almost 
as great a security in their absence as in their presence, against measures 
which they dislike. And they well know that as the measures of Cong's 
depend for their efficacy on the State legislatures — it is of little conse- 
quence in general how questions may be decided From these causes pro- 
ceeds the difficulty of keeping up a competent representation. 

In calculating the probability of an event depending on the opinion of 
a body of men, it is necessary to take into view the degree of mutability 
in the component members of the body. It is obvious that every change 
of members produces a new chance of the event. If we try the danger 

3 The omitted passages are elaborations of his argument. 



May, 1788 735 

to the Mississippi under the old and under the new system by comparing 
them in relation to this principle, the friends of the Mississippi cannot 
hesitate to embrace the latter. If the first choice should produce a Senate 
opposed to the sacrifice of that object, it cannot be sacrificed for two 
years, the danger from a new election of the whole number, can happen 
but once in six years, and as the same members are re-eligible from time 
to time, the danger from a change may possibly not happen during the 
lives of the members. On the other hand the members of Congress may 
be changed at pleasure, they hold their places at most from year to year, 
and the entire body necessarily undergoes a revolution once in three 
years. How many chances does such a body present in a period of six 
years for the turning up of any particular opinion. 

To compleat the comparison between the two bodies another difference 
is to be noted. In the Senate the States will be represented each by two 
members who are to vote per capita. In Congress the representation 
consists of an uncertain number, generally three or five, any two of 
whom can give the vote to the State. From this peculiarity in the Con- 
stitution of Congress, two observations result. 1. If any two out of the 
three, five or more members happen to concur in any particular opinion 
and happen to attend together without their colleagues or with not more 
than one of them, their opinion becomes the vote of the State. It is 
easy to see how this must multiply the chances of any particular measure 
in Congress. Where the measure may depend on a few wavering or 
divided States, this circumstance is of material importance. On the very 
subject of the Mississippi I have seen the opinion of a State in Congress 
depending altogether on the casual attendance of these or those members 
of the same deputation, and sometimes varying more than once in the 
course of a few days. Even in the Virginia deputation the vote of the 
State might have been given in opposition to the sense of a majority 
of the delegates in appointment. 2. Although 9 States which are Yz of 
the whole must concur in Treaties made by Congress, yet it may happen 
that of the members present less than Yi, the proportion absolutely neces- 
sary in the Senate, may give an affirmative decision. If each delegation 
contain 5 members present, 27 can carry the point, who amount to y$ 
only of the whole number. If the delegations contain each 3 members 
only, the point may be carried by not more than 2 /s 

848. Samuel Aleeyne Otis to George Thatcher. 1 

New York 18 March [May] 1788. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I think I have not written you since the accession of Maryland 
to the new System. 2 The accounts are favorable from the South and 

[848] 1 Hw/. Magazine, XVI. 345. 

2 Maryland ratified the Constitution Apr. 26, and Congress received notice of 
the action through a letter of Governor Smallwood, dated May 1, read in Congress May 
8. The allusion to that event is one of the evidences that this letter bears a wrong date. 
Besides, there is a postscript dated May 20. For the date of Thatcher's departure see his 
letter of Apr. 23 (no. 833, ante). 



736 Continental Congress 

unless Virginia does, I hardly apprehend a negative from the Southern 
States 

In Congress we go on with seven States as usual, but I think nine 
are like to be upon the floor this week. The most deficient State is New 
York, which is very extraordinary. There is a Doctr. Williamson arived 
who seems to have got with him from No. Carolina a quantum of self 
consequence. 8 Kentucki business I think must unavoidably be agitated 
this week. Brown who by the way improves upon acquaintance is incessant 
in his application. The New England members with [will] certainly 
be in opposition. King tell [s] me we are not empowered in his opinion, 
and if we were it is extremely improper in the present State of affairs. 4 

I find it is the general opinion that the New wheel will revolve — N Caro- 
lina, our pompous brother Williamson thinks there will be no fear of, nor 
perhaps will there be of S C, and Virginia with all stateliness, will be 
very unwilling to stand alone ; For N York will accede with the worst 
possible grace, I think she will be bullied into it. 

I think the people of Massachusetts, by what I have heard of their 
elections, are in a state of tollerable union and tranquility — This rejoices 
me, because N England united, will forever counterpoise any cabals and 
manoeuvres of the South .... 



849. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

My dear sir, 

I am honored with your two letters of May 1 and 3.* . . . . 

We have heard lately from Mr. Adams, he is greatly mortified at 
taking leave without the letters customary upon that occasion, and still 
more distressed that Mr. Smith is not continued at the Court of London 
in some capacity or other, he seems to think that the war will be general, 
but has given no reasons for that opinion, at the parting scene he was 
told by the King that he wished always to cultivate a good understanding 
with the united states, and would amply comply with the Treaty when 
ever America manifested the same disposition. 8 .... 

N: York May 19th, [1788.] 

8 Hugh Williamson took his seat in Congress May 16. In the group of character 
sketches reposing in the French archives (see Farrand, Records of the Federal Con- 
vention, III. 232, 237) Williamson is thus characterized: " Medecin et ci-devant Pro- 
fesseur d'astronomie. Bizarre a l'exces aimant a pirorer, mais parlant avec I'esprit. II 
est difficile de bien connoitre son caractere ; il est meme possible qu'il n'en ait pas ; mais 
son activity lui a donni depuis quelque temps beaucoup d'influence au Congn 

* Cf. no. 846, ante, and nos. 853, 855, 859, 862, 863, 865, 875-878, 880, post. 
[849] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See no. 844, ante. 

8 Letters of Adams Feb. 14, 16, 21, laid before Congress May 13, are in Adams's 
Works, VIII. 475, 478, 480, and in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A.. 1783-1789, II. 826, 827, 832. The 
letter of Feb. 21 recounts his leave-taking. A letter of Mar. 26 (ibid., p. 833), read in 
Congress May 22, was particularly to introduce to Jay Col. William Stephens Smith. 
who is not, however, mentioned in the other letters. Adams's disappointment over 
Smith's failure to receive a diplomatic appointment is voiced in his letter of Dec. 16 
(see no. 823, note 3, ante). Cf. nos. 851, 856, post. 



May, 1788 737 

850. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons (F). 1 

my dear sir, 

I have the pleasure to write you a few lines to inform the kind family 
that lady C. and the children are in good health; to make inquiry about 
yourself and our amiable friend Mrs. F. and also in the name of us all 
to make our sincere acknowlegements for the many favors received. 

I hope that Mr. O Conner was safely landed in the City, we are greatly 
obliged to him for the care and Attention he shewed to my helpless family. 

being indebted to you also in the money way I beg to know the amount, 
that such balance may be discharged with many thanks. 

Messrs. Jefferson and Adams have been able to borrow for the united 
States another million of florins in holland, upon the prospect of the new 
Constitution being established, but as Congress have not yet ratified the 
Contract it may remain with you. Mr. Jefferson seems to think that the 
war in Europe will be general, but no positive Judgment can be drawn 
from such a chaos of politics as that part of the world now exhibits. 2 

The british Courtiers are ridiculing our situation very much, and tell 
Mr. Adams in a sneering manner when America shall assume some kind 
of Government then England will speak to her. 

May 26th, [1788.] 

851. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison. 1 

my dear sir, 

I have the pleasure to write you by this post to make a thousand en- 
quires concerning your health from the Marchioness 2 etc. and to enclose 
you the debates of the Massachusetts Convention under separate covers. 

Contrary to expectation it so happens that we cannot bring nine states 
to act upon the floor of Congress, and this day one of the Maryland 
Gentlemen 3 is going away which will throw us back probably for some 
weeks. 

Messrs. Jefferson and Adams have lately met at Amsterdam, and have 
been able to borrow for the united states another Million of florins from 
the dutch, upon the prospect of the New constitution being established, 
but Congress have not yet ratified the contract yet certainly will do it 
without a single objection.* 

[850] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., I. 6. 

2 See no. 851, note 4, post. 
[851] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See nos. 805, 810, 844, ante, 856, 953, post. 

8 David Ross. 

4 See nos. 823, 832, 834, 850, ante. A letter from Jefferson Mar. 13 relative to 
the joint negotiations by himself and Adams for a new loan in Holland was read in 
Congress May 26 (the day Griffin was writing), a later letter, Mar. 16, having been 
read May 22. On May 23 that letter was referred to a committee, who reported May 
28 in favor of the loan. On June 25 the board of treasury likewise reported in favor 
of the loan, laying before Congress an attested notarial copy of the contract. Congress 
ratified the loan on July 2. Jefferson's letters are in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, 
H- 133-137- A prior letter from Jefferson to Adams on the subject, Mar. 2, is ibid., 



738 Continental Congress 

They seem to think that the war in Europe will be general, but confess 
that no positive Judgment can be formed from such a chaos of politics 
as that part of the world now exhibits. 

Colonel Smith B is just arrived from England, but has told us nothing 
of a secret or interesting nature, the Courtiers are ridiculing our situation 
very much, and say upon all occasions in a laughing manner that when 
the united states shall assume some sort of Government then England 
will speak out 

Ny. May 26th, [1788.]" 



852. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

Xf.w York 26th May, 1788. 
D'r Sir, 

You recollect that the general Assembly of our State during their last 
session passed a Law repealing all such other Laws as were inconsistent 
with the Treaty of Peace. The Secretary of Congress informs me that 
no such Act has been forwarded to Congress and it is much desired, will 
you be so good as send me by Post a printed Copy of that law or an 
attested manuscript as you may think best. The general Assembly also, 
near the End of the Session, instructed the Delegates in Congress to 
move certain Propositions respecting the Navigation of the Mississippi 
I shall be obliged to your Excellency for a Copy of that vote and the 
Resolutions. It may happen that Mr. White has received one and the other 
of the Papers above refferred to, but he has not communicated them and 
is gone hardly to be expected here for some Months. The Virginia Dele- 
gates are also instructed respecting the Mississippi, but they are disposed 
not to bring forward that Business before we are ready to support them.* 

p. 143. Jay's acknowledgment of Jefferson's letters, June o, is ibid., p. 144, and Cor- 
respondence of Jay, III. 338. A letter from William Short, Mar. 18, chiefly concern- 
ing European affairs, was also read in Congress May 26. Cf. nos. 853, 854, 859, post. 

6 Col. William Stephens Smith. See nos. 823, 849, ante, and no. 856, post. 

6 On May 26 the secretary for foreign affairs wrote to the executives of the 
several states the following circular letter: 

" Office for Foreign Affairs, 26th May, 1788. 
" Sir, 

"Mr. Dumas, agreeable to the Request of the Envoy extraordinary of his Swedish 
Majesty at the Hague, has transmitted to me a Note he received from that 'Minister, 
which I have now the Honor of communicating to your Excellency, in order that 
Measures may be taken on the subject as Circumstances and the Laws of Nations may 
dictate" (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 293). The note, signed Schultz von Ascheraden, is 
ibid., p. 294. Jay's letter is also in N. C. State Recs., XXI. 474. The Swedish envoy's 
note concerns a certain Captain Adolph Frederick Dahlberg, who had run away with a 
ship belonging to the Sieur Adolph Roxendorff and was sailing the seas in a fraudulent 
manner. The letter from Dumas to Jay on the subject, dated June 7, 1787, is in Dipl. 
Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 578; a letter from the Swedish envoy to Dumas, dated 
May 24, 1787, and the note above referred to are ibid., pp. 579-580. See also Dumas to 
lay June 15, 1789 (ibid., p. 637), transmitting a copy of a note from him to Baron de 
Leuwenhielm, then envoy of Sweden near the States General, June 2, 1789 (ibid., p. 641). 
[852] ^N. C Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs.. XXI. 474. 

2 See no. 847, ante. 



May, 1788 739 

853. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Governor of 
Massachusetts (John Hancock). 1 

~. New York May 27th 1788. 

The principal objects not of a secret nature, that require the attention 
of Congress of late, are the Federal Territories, Indian Affairs, the un- 
settled accounts of the late war, and the means of discharging the current 
demands upon the Union, an inconsiderable part of the year, in our 
opinion, would be sufficient for attending to these objects, could the 
States be induced regularly and seasonably to attend in Congress. 

As to the Government of the Federal Territories, we need only observe, 
that the officers are appointed, and measures adopted, for carrying into 
effect the system established by Congress, by their ordinance of the 13th 
of July last, so that there is now, in the Territories a Government properly 
organized and in operation. 2 

We flatter ourselves that the valuable and extensive tracts of federal 
lands, of which Congress have the disposal, may, with care and attention, 
be made a certain source for sinking a large part of the domestic debt 
of the Union. Terms for the disposal of about nine millions of acres 
have been agreed upon, and the average price has been rather more than 
two thirds of a dollar an acre in public securities. Other Companies have 
made application for purchasing about three millions of acres more. 3 From 
a general view of the terms agreed upon, and also of the terms offered, 
there is reason to believe that most of the lands between the Ohio and 
the completion of the forty first degree of North latitude, will sell for 
half a dollar an acre in securities paid down at the time of sale. As 
Companies appear to purchase those lands in large tracts, and agree to 
locate the tracts internally according to the direction of the land ordinance, 
passed May 20th, 1785, the reasons for surveying in townships those 
lands at the public expence have, in a great measure, ceased, and accord- 
ingly the surveys have ceased for the present. In the Federal Territories, 
as is often the case, many claims are set up by individuals under Indian 
deeds, etc. to these pretended claims, as well as to punctual payments 
for lands sold, we hope Congress will pay proper attention, convinced as 
we are, that nothing but a regular system of measures steadily adhered 
to for a number of years can produce all the good effects, that may be 
reasonably expected from this extensive property in the hands of the 
Union. 4 

[853] l Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 822 (signed by Dane and Otis). 

2 See nos. 715, 716, 723, 741, 744, 747, ante. 

8 See no. 833, note 2, ante. At this time a memorial of George Morgan and 
associates for making a purchase of lands was before Congress. See the Journals, May 
13. *4i 23, 26, June 12, 20. A second memorial (for a modification of the land contract) 
was presented June 25. See further the Journals, July I, 15, 30, Aug. II, 12, 15, 28. See 
also the report of the board of treasury May 26 respecting the existing situation in the 
matter of land sales. 

4 A revision of the land ordinance, or rather a " supplement ", was at this time 
under consideration. A committee had been appointed on the subject Feb. 22 and had 
reported a measure which was read a first time Mar. 19 and a second time Mar. 24, with 
further consideration Mar. 26 and 27. The consideration was resumed May 26 and 
continued through the 29th, and again on June 19, when the ordinance was referred to a 



740 Continental Congress 

It has been a question, with the Eastern Delegates especially, whether 
peopling those new regions with emigrants from the old States, may not, 
in one point of view, be a disadvantage to them. 

But it has been found, that those new lands are very inviting to settlers, 
and that, if not regularly disposed of and governed by the union, they 
will in a very few years, probably, be seised upon and settled in an irregular 
manner, and perhaps at no less expence of Inhabitants to the old States. 8 

Considering these circumstances, the advantages of regular settlements, 
of lessening the public debt and military expences on the frontiers, and of 
keeping, by such settlements, that Country more effectually connected 
with the union, Congress have been induced to adopt measures to establish 
Government, etc. there 

The unsettled accounts of the late war are a subject of importance, 
and particularly at this time, as a change in the forms of the Government 
will, probably, soon take place when the attention of the union will neces- 
sarily be drawn to other objects. We need not notice the measures that 
were adopted in the last and preceeding years relative to this subject. It 
is probable that in less than a year from this time, the accounts of indi- 
viduals (a few excepted) will be settled, and that several officers and 
expences in the Treasury Department will become unnecessary and cease. 
It is also probable, that, in the course of a few months, the five districts 
Commissioners appointed to collect the accounts of the respective States 
against the union, will finish their business. 

The Secretary [of] Congress will officially transmit to your Excellency, 
the act of Congress of the 226. instant, relative to this subject. 8 by this 
it will appear that Congress, after having often, by their acts and officers, 
called upon persons entrusted with public monies to settle their accounts, 
have directed decisive measures to be pursued. It is, perhaps, proper for 
us to observe, that the persons whom this act respects are not numerous ; 
but a few men, principally in the middle States, who early in the war 
received very large sums of public monies, and who have very un- 
responsibly delayed to render their accounts. It is not expected that very 
large sums on settlement will be found due from these persons, tho sums 
too considerable to be lost or neglected by the union. 

Congress deem it essential that men, however distinguished, entrusted 
with the public property should always be brought, punctually to render 
and settle their accounts ; not only to do Justice to the public in the par- 
ticular Cases; but also to evince that there is always a determination in 
the Government that no accounts shall remain unsettled, and thereby 
provide the most effectual security against a fraudulent line of conduct 
which men, so entrusted, might otherwise be tempted to pursue. 

It is with great difficulty monies are obtained by Congress for dis- 
charging the current expences of the union, there is no prospect, at 

committee. On July 2 the committee brought in a new draft, which was further debated 
July 7 and 8 and, after some amendments, adopted July 9. Cf. nos. 855, 869, 887, post. 
For a summary account of the development of the system see Treat, National Land 
System, chapters II. and III. 

» Cf. no. 850, post . 

• See no. 845, ante. 



May, 1788 741 

present, of any monies to be remitted to Europe, and as there are some 
measures before Congress respecting our loans in Holland not yet acted 
upon, we forbear to make any observations on that subject at this 
time. 7 .... 

The State of Virginia and the District of Kentucky have applied to 
Congress for the admission of that District into the union as an inde- 
pendant state, this Subject involves in it several considerations and par- 
ticularly this, whether the admission of Kentucky into the union ought 
not to be contemplated, at least for the present, in connection with the 
admission of Vermont. 

It does not clearly appear that Congress have the power under the 
Confederation to consent to the division of a State, and to the admission 
of a part of it, as an independant state, into the Confederacy. We doubt 
whether it is expedient at this time to decide on a Subject of this nature 
or whether the admission of a State would be of any avail to it. 

But situated as these two districts are we think it advisable, that no 
discouragements to their admission into the Union, as independant States 
hereafter, ought to be hove in the way. We think it proper thus briefly 
to state this subject to your Excellency, and our sentiments relative to 
it, and to observe, that it is our opinion at present, that we ought to act 
in conformity to them, unless otherwise instructed by the legislature. 8 

854. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York May 28, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your several favors 
from Orange and am much obliged to you for them. 

Mr. Brown informs me that he has sent you full statements of the 
Foreign and domestic debts, should you find any additional papers useful, 
be good enough to inform me, and they shall be immediately forwarded. 
I can however now add to what you have received, some intelligence upon 
the subject of our debts, you are acquainted with the steps taken by Mr. 
Adams last year, for negotiating a loan of 1 Million of Guilders, this 
loan has not been filled up — about two thirds of the Bonds deposited by 
him with our bankers to be negotiated, have remained undisposed of, 
owing to the dubious state of our politics, the inefficiency of our old 
Government is too well known in holland to induce the confidence of 
Money lenders, and the doubts whether the new constitution will be 
adopted have prevented their taking that as a ground, on which to depend 
upon our honesty, as the June interest was becoming due, and as our 
bankers were also pressed for other indispensible demands, they lately 
set about some new efforts to get the loan filled — at last they had an 
offer from one broker only, but it was of a nature rather insulting than 
otherwise — having in his possession a sum of our domestic securities 
he offered to fill up the loan, provided he should be allowed to retain 

7 See no. 851, note 4, ante, and no. 854, post. 

8 See nos. 846, 848, ante, 859, 862, 863, 865, 875-878, 880, post. 
[854] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 



742 Continental Congress 

one years Interest upon those securities, this would have amounted to 
upwards of one fourth of the sum loaned, in this embarrassment the 
Bankers addressed themselves to Mr. Jefferson who has gone to holland 
to see what can be done, from Amsterdam he has communicated this 
proposition to Congress, and in the mean time is endeavouring to get 
the loan compleated upon other terms. 2 in France we are undergoing 
also severe strictures amongst those to whom we owe money 

855. James Randolph Reid to William Irvine. 1 

New York 30th May 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

Yesterday we had Ten States upon the floor, this day Mr. Swan 
Colleague to Mr. Williamson has been innoculated and I do not expect 
he will be able to attend. 2 we have made considerable progress in the 
land Ordinance, having got to the last paragraph but one. 8 this day is 
big with the fate of Kentucky and the world.* I will write you next 
monday or as soon as we finish the Ordinance and liberate Kentucky I 
received your letter dated at Philadelphia. Mr. Brown received his Bill 
The authentic resolution with respect to delinquents accompanies this. 8 
Give my love to our friends and expect punctual and early information 
of what is going on here 

856. John Armstrong, jr., to Horatio Gates. 1 

New York 30th May 1788. 
My dear Gen., 

.... There is no part of my conduct on which I would not wish 
your approbation and I have yet no reason to think the resignation of my 
judicial appointment an improper step. 2 On the contrary I think with 
you it was right and that a little in Society is much more desireable than 
a great deal in a desert. The career however which the new Government 
opens I'm far from thinking flattering to men of any Age or character — 
for tho' a friend and advocate of the system (as a step towards common 
sense and practicable Government) yet it falls so far short of what I 
know to be the situation and believe to be the character of this Country, 
that I despair at once of both the stability and convenience of the Oedifice. 
The fact is my dear Gen. that my creed as to popular Government! is 

2 See nos. 823, 832, 834, 850, 851, 853, ante, and no. 859, post. William Irvine 
wrote from Philadelphia, May 28, to Nathan Dane: "You hear little of public matters 
at present, except a general belief that the new Government will soon be adopted, it is 
confidently said Virginia will have a large majority. I make a short stay here", etc. 
Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

[855] ' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Irvine Papers, IV. 127 (addressed to him at Carlisle). 

2 See no. 857, post. 

8 See no. 853, note 4, ante, and no. 887, post. 

* See the Journals, May 30, June 2, 3, July 2, 3 ; cf. nos. 846, 848, 853, ante, 850, 
862, 863, 865, 875-878, 880, post. 

8 Presumably the resolution of May 22 is meant. See nos. 845, 853, ante. 
[856] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, Box 16, no. 252. 

2 The allusion is to his resignation of the appointment as one of the judges for 
the western territory. See nos. 741, 744, 747, 853, ante. 



May, 1788 743 

very much chang'd under a little experience of their operation — and I 
suspect that shape them as you will you must find them on experiment both 
foolish and feeble . . . . 3 

Coll. Smith return'd from St. James's a day or two ago. 4 He brings 
with him a wife and child — The whole profit of his legation. He has 
parted with some of his characteristical buckram, that is, his external 
manner is more easy than it was, but I fear he has exchanged it for a 
coxcombry of a worse kind — that of the mind. He is now a very profound 
politician, and indeed so much so that he is often quite unintelligible. This 
I regret, for I think well of his honor and principles. His wife, who is a 
daughter of Mr. J. Adams, is the negative being described in Mrs. 
Shandy. 

The Baron passed the winter at the same lodging house with me. " To 
this he has come at last." The towre [ ?] is now dismantled and deserted, 
and he is once more upon the Justice or generosity of the public. But the 
public has neither — and he has only to choose between starving here or 
begging in Europe. This is calamitous to him and disgracefull to us. 5 
He is now with North 6 who by the way is married to Duane's daughter 
and exild to the Mohawk. 

We have a french Minister now with us — and if France had wish'd to 
destroy the little remembrance that is left of her and her exertions — 
she would have sent just such a Minister — distant, haughty and penurious 
— and entirely govern'd by the caprice of a little, singular, whimsical, 
hysterical old woman whose delight is in playing with a negro child and 
carressing a monkey. 7 I wish to God we had paid our debts to our good 
ally and were well rid of her — for there's some danger in remaining the 
connexion of a pow'r whose character it is to destroy her friends — 
not her enemies. 8 Having dropt this idea I must just suggest my reason 
for it. For 'Tis so treasonable that I might else again be suspected of 
being a british Emissary. Twill be eno' to bid you remember her conduct 
to Corsica — to Poland — to Geneva — to Holland and now to the Turks — 
whom after 40 years connexion she abandons. I don't travell out of 
my own memory for the oldest of these instances. Your's which goes 
farther back will remember others. My idea however goes but to this — 
that 'tis obviously our interest to be but the distant acquaintance not the 
intimate friend of any European Pow'r. You will I believe subscribe to 
this conclusion. 

3 He proceeds to indulge in some speculations on government, " such as I would 
express only to a tried and bosorn friend ; they convey my fears, not my wishes ". " What 
particular part I'm destin'd to play in this new drama I know not ? " — but he hears that 
his friends in Pennsylvania " mean to try their force in sending me to the new Senate ". 
Touching upon the matter of senatorial candidates in a letter to Madison Sept. 26, Tench 
Coxe wrote, " Genl. Armstrongs friends are strenuous and apparently determined " 
{Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 76). 

* Cf. nos. 823, 849, 851. 

5 Concerning Baron Steuben's renewed application to Congress, see no. 754, ante. 
the Journals, Feb. 1, June 4, July 7, 9, 25, Aug. 25, Sept. 11, and no. 923, post. 

6 Maj. William North. 

7 Madame de Brehan, usually referred to as the Marchioness. Cf. nos. 805, 810, 
844, 851, ante, and no. 953, post. 

8 Cf. no. 788, ante, and no. 857, post. 



744 Continental Congress 

We hopd to have seen you to the No. this spring and indeed report 
went so far as to remove you entirely from Virginia and set you down 
either in Philada. or New York for life. I hope 'tis more than report 
alone — and will even beleive it to be so till you yourself contradict it. 

Be so good as to make my most respect full compliments to Mrs. Gates 
and accept for your happiness and her's my best wishes. 

857. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York, 30th May, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

On the day before yesterday Mr. Swann arrived here by water from 
Norfolk. Yesterday he took his Seat in Congress which for the first time 
since October last gave the State a Vote. Mr. Swann [was] inoculated 
yesterday morning, but expects that he will be seldom prevented from 
doing duty. 2 

To-day Congress has received a very serious Complaint from the 
Minister of France concerning the conduct of the Majestracy in one of 
the States protecting a French Pirate, another mournful proof that unless 
we have a Foederal Government we shall not long escape from the depreda- 
tions of some Foreign Nation.' 

I was favoured by your Excellency's Letter by Mr. Swann, but beg you 
to note that this is neither the third or fourth I have had the honor of 
writing or with which I may have troubled you already.* 

858. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

New York May 31, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

I had the pleasure to inclose you by the last post the British Act of 
Parliament upon the subject of our Trade. You will now receive in one 
of the papers inclosed an ordinance of the Province of Quebec, for regu- 
lating the inland Commerce of that Province with the Neighbouring 
States, or in other words the U. S. 

[857] l AT. C. State Recs., XXI. 476. 

2 See no. 855, ante, and no. 869, post. 

8 The representation of the minister of France. May 28, which was laid before 
Congress May 30, concerned the action in Virginia in the case of a Frenchman, Ferrier, 
charged with being guilty of a kind of piracy. The case involved the authority of a 
consul and consequently the unratified consular conventon. Jay's report of the matter. 
June 6, was referred to a committee, who reported June 12, and tentative action 
taken by Congress June 13. Definite action on the case re quir ed correspondence with the 
governor of Virginia, and it was not until Aug. 8 that a reply from Governor Randolph 
was received. Cf. no. 892, post. On Aug. 15 the matter was referred back to the secre- 
tary for foreign affairs to report, but the absence of Moustier delayed negotiations he- 
tween the secretary and the minister, and Jay so reported to Congress Sept. 19 (report 
laid before Congress Sept. 25). He likewise notified Governor Randolph Sept. 24. On 
Oct. 18 Moustier transmitted to Jay a sketch of a conversation between the two on the 
subject. And that, since there was not again a quorum of Congress, appears to have 
ended the affair. The correspondence pertaining to the affair is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 

1783-1789. I. 253-273- , , , . . 

4 Governor Johnston s letter has not been found. 
[858] '■Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 



June, 1788 745 

The intention doubtless is, that these two Acts, shall co-operate to give 
that Nation the use of our Commodities, and at the same time the exclusive 
benefits of carrying them; and that of Quebec leads to another object, 
more remote, but if even passable would be still more mischievous to us, 
the allurement of the Commerce, and with it, the Affections of our 
Western Inhabintants [sic'] by means of the Lakes and the River St. 
Lawrence, to that quarter. As to our Commercial intercourse with the 
West Indies, I have not a doubt that Great Britain may be made the 
dependent party, and therefore a wise policy on our part, supported by 
an energetic government, would give us the Controul of the Terms of 
intercourse. As to the other object, I hope that the influence of a better 
government than we have hitherto had; the improvement and extension 
of our inland Navigation, and the Free use of the Mississippi, added to 
the difficulties which from Climate attend that of the St. Lawrence, will 
all conspire to prevent its being effected. 2 

We are in hourly expectation of receiving information of the adoption 
of the constitution in South Carolina. 3 

859. Paine Wingate to Samuel Lane. 1 
j) <-.. New York, June 2d, 1788. 

.... Our latest accounts from Europe are that our credit begins to 
revive there already, upon the presumption that our government will 
soon be upon a more respectable footing. 2 

We have now a pretty full Congress and expect soon to have all the 
states represented. We are at this time engaged in a matter of consider- 
able consequence, that is, whether Kentucky, a western part of Virginia 
and which I think I gave you some account of hereto [fore], shall be 
erected into a distinct state. This will be an affair not easily settled. 
There are great difficulties on all sides. 3 The commissioners who were 
appointed to judge how much the United States should pay Virginia for 
their expenses in defending the western country during the war, have 
reported half a million dollars for us to pay. 4 This is no inconsiderable 
sum. Georgia have also made a cession to the United States of their 
western lands on condition of their being paid one hundred thousand 
dollars. 5 If we should have a few more such presents, we should not 
know how to pay them. 

2 On the same day Carrington also transmitted the act of the British Parliament 
and the Quebec ordinance to Governor Randolph and discussed at somewhat greater 
length than in his letter to Madison the implications of the two measures (Va. State 
Lib., Executive Papers). The Quebec ordinance, dated Apr. 14, is in the New York Daily 
Advertiser of May 28. 

3 Nicholas Gilman wrote to Jeremiah Wadsworth May 29 : "I have the pleasure 
to inform you that, by authentic letters received last evening from a gentleman in the 
Convention of South Carolina, it appears there is a respectable majority in favor of the 
new System" (N. Y. Pub. Lib. Emmet Coll., no. 9442). 

[8 59] x Life of Wingate, I. 230. 

2 This conclusion is probably drawn from the information that a new loan had 
been offered in Holland. See nos. 850, 851, 853, 854, ante. 

3 See no. 855, note 4, ante. 

4 See the Journals, May 23, 26 ; also no. 829, ante. 

5 See the Journals, May 29, July 14, IS, and no. 830, ante. For Georgia's subse- 
quent course in the matter of cessions see Treat, National Land System, pp. 355-369. 



746 Continental Congress 

The expenses of these purchases together with the expenses of the 
Indian treaties, and of surveying and disposing of those lands, will 
create a very large debt. It is true the country is immensely large, is an 
excellent soil, and capable of supporting a vast number of inhabitants, but 
I think they will draw off our most valuable and enterprising young men 
and will impede the population of our old states and prevent the establish- 
ment of manufactures. Upon the whole I doubt whether, in our day, that 
country will not be a damage to us rather than advantage. We seem to be 
overstocked with lands and I believe it had been as well for the Indians 
to have kept their own territory. 6 .... 

860. Hugh Williamson to James Madison. 1 

_ . New York June 2nd, 1788. 

Dear sir. 

By the Time this comes to Hand you will be pretty well engaged in 
discussing the new Constitution and attempting to convince men who came 
forward with the Resolution not to be convinced. Of all the wrong heads 
who have started in opposition none have been mentioned who appear to 
be so palpably wrong as the People of Kentucke. It is said that some 
antifed in Maryland on the last Winter fastened on the Ear of Genl. 
Wilkinson who was accidentally there and persuaded him that in case of 
a new Govt, the Navigation of the Mississippi would infallibly be given 
up. 2 Your Recollection must certainly enable you to say that there is a 
Proviso in the new Sistem which was inserted for the express purpose of 
preventing a majority of the Senate or of the States which is considered 
as the same thing from giving up the Mississippi. It is provided that two 
thirds of the Members present in the senate shall be required to concur 
in making Treaties and if the southern states attend to their Duty, this 
will imply 2 /z of the States in the Union together with the President, a 
security rather better than the present 9 States especially as Vermont and 
the Province of Main may be added to the Eastern Interest and you may 
recollect that when a Member, Mr. Willson objected to this Proviso, saying 
that in all Govts, the Majority should govern it was replyed that the 
Navigation of the Mississippi after what had already happened in Con- 
gress was not to be risqued in the Hands of a meer Majority and the 
Objection was withdrawn. Certainly those gentlemen know that the River 
is at present shut not by right but by the Hand of Power and that under 
the existing Govt, we are never like to be able to open it. It is true that 
we may readily reduce the Spanish Settlements on the Mississippi but 
that would not secure us any Exports; for a single Spanish Frigate 
would take every Vessel that we attempted to send out with Produce. 
And any Nation sending Vessels to take our Produce would expose such 
Vessel to Capture. On the Contrary under an efficient Govt, when we 
shall certainly have some Ships of War Spain will find herself under tin- 
Necessity of suffering our Produce to be exported. For myself I com •<■ 

• Cf. no. 853, ante. 
[860] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 
1 Cf. no. 847, ante. 



June, 1788 747 

that my opinions are not biased by private Interest, but having claims to 
a considerable Quantity of Land in the Western Country I am fully per- 
suaded that the Value of those Lands must be increased by an efficient 
federal Govt. It is clear that the Kentucke Gentlemen must have received 
this Subject in a difft. Light, but I suspect that they have never fully 
examined the provision respecting Treaties. 

86 1. Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount. 1 

~ -. New York <*rd Tune 1788. 

Dear $ir, ° . .' 

On the last year an Accot. was taken of the Exports from the sundry 

Ports in our State by Order of Govr : Caswell. The Exports from Carri- 

tuck, Roanoke and Wilmington I have, but by some means those from 

Bath and Newbern never came into my Hands. 2 I wish much to have them. 

Will you be so good as try to forward them. Any Body may take them 

from the Books in the mode that will suffice in 7 minutes viz for the 

Year 1785 

Amo't Pipe Stems Thousd. Hhd. Do Thd. Brl. Do 

Shingles Thousd Hhds. Tobacco Brls Tar 

Pitch Turpentine feet Plank Bshls Corn. 3 

There have as I conceive been exported few other article's of im- 
portance except perhaps Pork, Tar. Timber etc. All Eyes here are looking 
with Hope or fear towards Virga. The opposition have great Confidence 
in the mulish obstinacy of P Henry, Mason and R H Lee. We all 
admire the beautiful Trope of Col. Mason at the Court House in the 
Country when he was elected. You may have been taught said he to 
respect the Characters of the Members of the late Convention. You may 
have supposed that they were an assemblage of great men — There is 
nothing less true. From the Eastern States there were Knaves and 
Fools from the states southward of Virga : They were a parcel of Cox- 
combs and from the middle States Office Hunters not a few. Col. Graysons 
Trope of Rhetoric was more to the feelings of Virginians. He harangued 
the People at the Court House having in his Hand a small Box hardly so 
broad as a Moidore. The Point of finger and Thumb are inserted with 
difficulty. Perhaps said he you may think it of Consequence that some 
other States have accepted of the new Constitution, what are they? when 
compared to Virginia they are no more than this Snuff Box is to the 
Size of a Man. On being asked afterwards by an intimate, why he had 
risqued such an assertion. There was not any short-Hand man present 
said he. 

The Convention in this State meets on the 17th Inst: as does that 
of N Hampshire. There is a Line of Communication established by 
which we are told the New Yorkers at Pokepsie for I think they are to sit 
there, may hear within 40 Hours what is done in New Hampshire. 

[861]. 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 See no. 567, ante. 

3 Apparently Williamson means to indicate roughly several items of information 
which he desires. 

54 



748 Continental Congress 

862. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 

Rhode Island (John Collins). 1 

New York, the 5 of June, 1788. 
Sir, 

We Consider that it is our duty to Inform your Excellency of our safe 
arrival here, 2 and a[l]tho from the shortness of the Time we are unable 
to give a particular account of the business before Congress we in General 
inform, That there is several matters of importance under Consideration, 
One of which is the Dividing of the State of Virginia and thereby making 
a Fourteenth State by the Name of Kentucky, it appears by the acts of 
the Legislature of that State that they have agreed to that measure, and 
there is a memorial from the Inhabitants of that Country for that pur- 
pose now before Congress. The Expediency of such a measure at this 
time we submit to your Excellencies Consideration, without making any 
Comment thereon. 8 

There is at this Time Eleven States Represented and when any matters 
of Importance to the Union are acted upon we shall emidiately Communi- 
cate them. 

We are under the Necessity of informing your Excellency that it is 
necessary for the State to make further provision for our support, which 
we desire may be done in such manner as to be least Injurious to the State, 
and be productive of the greatest advantage to us. 

We do not presume to dictate but submit whether it would not be the 
most Eligible mode to appoint a person in the State to receive such sum of 
money as the hon'ble Assembly grant and supply us with the neet proceeds 
of it. By this means we shall be furnished much sooner, and Releav'd from 
the great Inconveniancy that will attend on us if Directed to Draw the 
money when at this distance from the State. 

863. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 

Rhode Island (John Collins). 1 

New York, 6th June, 1788. 
Sir, 

We are informed that from a variety of causes, the State of Rhode- 
Island will be prevented from Exhibiting for Settlement their clames 
against the United States, within the time Limited by Resolve of Con- 

[86a] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788 (signed by Arnold 
Hazard) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 612. 

2 Peleg Arnold had resumed his seat, after an absence, on May 6 ; Jonathan 
Hazard had taken his seat June 2. For one delegate's opinion of the two delegates from 
Rhode Island see Williamson to Iredell Aug. 23 (no. 917, post). A letter from Peleg Arnold 
to his father, Stephen Arnold, May 25, mainly concerning personal and family matters, 
fails to create an impression of astute statesmanship. " There is no matters of Im- 
portence here ", Arnold writes, " and whenever there is I shall communicate them. This 
letter will remind you that I have not forgotten so worthy a Friend ;. . . . Present my 
Dutiful Respects to your good Lady and Love to your Famaly and be assured I am 
with perfect Esteem your Dutiful Son Peleg Arnold." Chicago Hist. Soc., Gunther 
Collection. 

8 See nos. 803, 804, 832, 848, 853, 855, 859, ante, 865, 875-878, 880, post. 

[863] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 103 (signed by Arnold and 
Hazard) ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 613. 



June, 1788 749 

gress. 2 If it is found Necessary for the Time to be Lengthend, we Desire 
to have Instructions from the State for that purpose Setting forth the 
Reasons which makes the application Necessary. 

There is an application from the State of Virginia for Lengthening 
the Time for that State now before Congress 3 and if Rhode Island finds 
it necessary to apply, we think the Sooner the more likely to obtain. 

864. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

[June6(?), 1788.J 
Sir, 

We have the Honor to inclose you the Report of a Committee of Con- 
gress, respecting a Survey to fix the Boundaries, and determine the Quan- 
tity of the Territory adjoining the State of Pennsylvania, belonging to the 
United States, as well as the Terms on which the Board of Treasury is 
authorized to dispose of the same. 2 

We shall wait for the Instructions of the Hon'ble the Supreme Execu- 
tive Council, whether to make an Offer for the indefinite Quantity that 
may be contained within the Boundaries of the said Tract, or suspend the 
Negotiation, untill the Amount is precisely ascertained by Survey. 

We would recommend the former Mode, as most conducive to the 
Interests of the State of Pennsylvania, and most effectually guarding 
against the Cupidity of private Speculators. 

865. John Brown to James Madison. 1 

New York June 7th, 1788. 
Sir, 

.... The President informs me that he has sent you a Copy of a Reso- 
lution which Congress passed relative to the Seperation of Kentucky. 2 
This contains all that has been done upon that Subject and I fear all that 
will be done. From the Hudson eastwardly all the members are opposed 

2 The act of July 23, 1787. 

3 See no. 866, note 2, post. 

[864] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 308 (signed by Bingham and Rejd). 

2 This letter is undated, but it was doubtless written June 6 or shortly thereafter 
(Bingham did not take his seat until May 20), as it appears to allude to a resolution of 
June 6, giving instructions to the geographer with regard to the survey. The report 
transmitted was presumably that of Mar. 6, 1788, which probably had however been 
previously transmitted (see no. 798, ante). The action of the council, June 14, in response 
to the inquiry of the delegates is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XL 313. In view of the instructions 
to the geographer (Thomas Hutchins), that officer wrote to Congress June 16, transmitting 
a letter of the same day which he had addressed to Lord Dorchester, Governor General of 
Quebec. The letters, which were read in Congress June 17, are in Pa. Arch., first ser., 
XL 314-315. See further nos. 882, 883, 958, 962, 964, post, and the Journals, July 22, 30, 
Aug. 20. 

[865] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 685 
(extract). 

2 The resolution of June 3, consequent upon a report of the committee of the 
whole, June 2, to refer the matter to a committee of one from each state to prepare an 
act for the admission of Kentucky. See further the Journals, July 3. Cf. nos. 846, 848, 
ante, 875-878, 880, post. 



750 Continental Congress 

to do any thing further in this Business than to frame an Ordinance for 
the admission of Kentucky to be refered to the different States and rati- 
fied by them individually or to obtain from the States the ratification of 
an additional article to the Confederation vesting Powers in Congress for 
that purpose, either of these plans virtually amounts to a denyal of the 
present application as the Compact between Vrga. and the District be- 
comes void if not ratifyed by Congress before the 4th of July. Colo. 
Hamilton heads the Opposition from an apprehension that a compliance 
might embarrass the New Constitution, he is supported by all the eastern 
States least it might add to the Southern Interest. 8 I suppose Kentucky 
will assume her independence as it cannot be expected that she will continue 
in her present situation untill she can be admitted under the New Gov- 
ernment and I am inclined to believe that no application under the present 
will be success full. When thus forced into unconstitutional measures 'tis 
difficult to say how far they may proceed. I fear the contracted Policy 
of the present Congress will be productive of Consequences ruinous to the 
tranquility of that promising Country ; or to the importance and dignity of 
the United States ; and perhaps to both. My disappointment in this busi- 
ness has in a great measure prevented those exertions which I intended to 
remove the Objections of the Delegates from that Country to the New 
Constitution. Any Arguments which I could with propriety urge presup- 
pose their admission into the Union, this at present will not be granted 
and all the letters I have reed, from the District hold out the Idea that 
they are determined not to make a second application. I have in general 
terms written to some of them that it is decidedly my opinion that there is 
not any thing to be apprehended relative to the Navigation of the Mis- 
sissipi and that they ought to adopt the plan proposed. Indeed my mind 
is and for some time has been so irritated that I have avoided writing to 
my friends from the District now at Richmond, my expectations respect- 
ing their independance least I might drop something which might have a 
similar effect upon them. I hope you have a decided majority without 
them and that the ninth Pillar may be raised in Virga. 

866. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York June 9, 1788. 
Sir, 

The delegation have been Honoured with your Excellencies favor of 
the 25th Ult. enclosing the reasons of the Commissioner for requiring an 
extension of the time allowed for the exhibition of the Acc'ts of Virginia 
against the United States. They are submitted to Congress, with a motion 
for the prolongation of the time, and these are now in reference to the 
Treasury Board for their report. We shall have the issue ascertained as 
early as possible, but cannot undertake to encourage an expectation of 
success. In the mean time it will be well for Mr. Dunscomb to proceed 

» Cf. nos. 818, 819, 846, ante. 
[866] iVa. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 449. 



June, 1788 751 

without reliance upon the extension of the time for rendering the Ac- 
counts. Should his evidences be incompleat he may nevertheless render 
the Accounts, and prosecute his measures for collecting all that can be 
got, and as to the forms and arrangement of the Accounts, although it 
would have been a desirable circumstance for the State, that he should have 
Stated them, yet that business, so far as alterations may be necessary to 
conform them to the Statements of the United States, may be left upon the 
Commissioner for that Party. 2 



867. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York June 9, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

I had the honor to write you by the last packet by Mr. Barlow and 
Master G. W. Greene, 2 since which South Carolina has acceded to the 
new Constitution by a great Majority, the inclosed papers contain the 
act, and some of the debates of the convention. 8 

Virginia is now sitting, having met last Monday, but we have not yet 
received any intelligence as to the probable turn the business will take 
there. I am inclined to think the critical stage in which this convention 
meets the affair, will have much influence upon the opinions of many who 
sat out in the opposition, in adopting they will certainly avoid commotion, 
and, at worst, accept a constitution upon which eight States have already 
agreed to hazard their happiness, and which may be amended, should it 
be found to operate badly; in rejecting they may produce commotion, 
with but little prospect of preventing the adoption, the five States who 
have not yet acceded, would never agree in their objects, and could even 
this be brought about, they must at last rather yeild to the 8, than these 
to the five ; and it appears that the submission on either side must be intire, 
for should the 8 think of a compromise with the 5, there would be difficulty 
in agreeing what points to yield, these considerations will, I apprehend, 
have their effect in the convention of Virginia, and produce an issue dif- 
ferent from that which might have taken place under other circumstances. 
I am happy to find that the five are so separated that there cannot be a pos- 
sible effort to Unite in an attempt to dismember the union, had the south- 
ern States joined in opinion as to the constitution, I verily believe such a 
desperate step would have been tried, but it would have ended in their 
destruction, and perhaps that of all the others 

2 See no. 842, note 2, ante, and nos. 873, 875, 876, 882, post. On June 6 the 
Virginia delegates laid before Congress a letter to the governor of Virginia from Andrew 
Dunscomb, commissioner for settling the accounts between Virginia and the United 
States, and at the same time made a motion for an extension of time for the adjustment 
of those accounts. The letter and the motion were referred to the board of treasury, who 
reported June 23. On June 24 Congress granted an extension of time. See further 
the Journals, Aug. 20, Sept. 10, 11. 

[867] ] Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 The letter, dated May 17, is in the Jefferson Papers. 

■ New York Daily Advertiser June 7, New York Journal June 7. The act of the 
convention, etc., appeared in the Virginia Independent Chronicle June 18. 



752 Continental Congress 

868. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Georgia 
(George Mathews). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 

June ioth, 1788. 
Sir, 

On the 13th of April 1787 I had the honor to transmit to your Excel- 
lency sundry resolutions passed by the United States in Congress As- 
sembled respecting the treaty of peace between the United States of 
America and Great Britain: also a letter to your Excellency which was 
unanimously agreed to in Congress on the same subject. Not having heard 
from you touching this matter, I take the liberty of sending you a dupli- 
cate. 2 The reasons why your State should pass the law recommended are 
so fully and so forcibly stated in the letter from Congress, that [it] is 
needless to say any thing more on the subject, especially to your State 
which with such unanimity and readiness hath adopted the new Constitu- 
tion which establishes the principle, that treaties made, or which shall 
be made under the authority of the United States shall be the supreme 
law of the land. I presume therefore it will only be necessary for your 
Excellency to bring this matter to the recollection of your Legislature, 
if they have not already passed the law required. 

869. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell. 1 

New York, nth June, '88. 
Dear Sir, 

The public papers have not for many days afforded us any news. AH 
expectation is turned towards Virginia. We take it for granted, I do at 
least, that North Carolina will follow Virginia in accepting or rejecting. 
I confess that my hopes are not sanguine; but of this I do not consider 
myself bound to say all I think. 2 

Congress have before them sundry matters of considerable import, 
which have been depending some months, for there have been nine States 
on the floor for a few days last past only. Having come on here with a 
resolution to indulge myself in as much leisure as any others of my fellow- 
laborers, the start I have been somehow constrained to take has not fully 
accorded with my plan ; " but I shall try to mend after a few land questions 

[868] » Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 151. 

2 See no. 634, ante. 
[869] l Life of Iredell, II. 226. 

8 For instance, Nicholas Gilman wrote to President Sullivan June 12, chiefly 
to quote a passage from a letter of Madison June 4 ( Gilman wrote "July 4th") relative 
to the Virginia convention, but with this addition : ' I believe there is now little or no 
reason to doubt the success of the question in North Carolina, the Honorable Mr. Wil- 
liamson has lately arrived from that State and assures me that he has not been able 
to inform himself from what quarter the opposition is to come and that he entertains 
no doubt of the ratification by their Convention." N. H. Arch., Revolution, XI. 167; 
Library of Congress, Force Trans., N. H. Records ; N. H. State Papers, XXI. 852. 

8 The French minister appears to have received the definite impression that a 
propensity towards leisure was chronic among members of Congress. Writing to 
Montmorin June 25 he remarked, " Quelques membres sont absens dans ce moment 
uniquement pour leur plaisir. Rien ne les contraint a l'exactitude." Am. Hist. Rev., 
VIII. 732; cf. no. 656, note 7, ante. 



June, 1788 753 

are determined. 4 These questions are extremely weighty, as the national 
funds are concerned. At present I have not leisure even to return visits. 

Will you be pleased to forward a line to Mrs. Templeman, who is prob- 
ably anxious to hear the fate of her son. 5 You may inform her that he 
was inoculated on Thursday week He would now attend in Con- 
gress was it not that the place on his arm is not quite free from inflam- 
mation, and renders it inconvenient to put on a coat with tight 
sleeves 

I was yesterday surprised by a message of the Spanish Minister, who 
sent one of his family to our lodging to apologize for his not visiting us in 
person, for he has not had the small pox: he had left his card at the 
door without coming in. 



870. Edward Carrington to James Wilson. 1 

New York June 17, 1788. 
D'r Sir, 

When you left this City, it was understood by the Committee on the 
Memorial of the Mississippi and Wabash Companies, that you was to 
forward some additional papers from Philada. this has occasioned the 
business to be delayed. I suppose that unless an early decision upon the 
application can be obtained, the object of the Memorialists will be lost, and 
therefore take the liberty to inform you of the delay, in order that you 
may, either forward any additional papers you wish to have considered; 
or inform the Committee that they may proceed upon what have been 
submitted. 2 

871. Abraham Baldwin to Ebenezer Hazard ( F). 1 

Dear Sir, 

A Committee of Congress request your attendance this morning at the 
city hall on some business referred to them by Congress 2 

Tuesday mor'g 17th June 88 

4 See no. 853, note 4, ante. 

5 John Swann, delegate from North Carolina. See nos. 855, 857, ante. 
[870] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 On May 2 a memorial of James Wilson on behalf of the United Land Com- 
panies of the Illinois and Wabash had been laid before Congress and on May 5 referred 
to a committee (Irvine, Clark, Dane, Mitchell, and Carrington). The committee brought 
in its report June 27, and on July 1 it was " postponed " ; in other words, the memorial 
was rejected. See the note in the Journals, May 5, where it is stated that Wilson gave a 
receipt for the petition and accompanying papers Mar. 2, 1700. 
[87i] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., p. 736. 

2 On June 6 some matters pertaining to mail contracts, etc., were referred to a 
committee consisting of Baldwin, Dane, Dayton, Kearny, and Gilman, therefore it would 
seem most probable that this note was addressed to the postmaster general, Ebenezer 
Hazard. The committee made a report July 7, and it was adopted July 3. 



754 Continental Congress 

872. William Bingham to John Nicholson. 1 

New York June 18th 1788. 
Sir, 

I herewith Inclose a Resolution of Congress on the subject of Pen- 
sions that have been, or may hereafter be paid, to Invalids by the respec- 
tive States 2 likewise Copy of a Motion made yesterday in Congress, the 
Consideration of which I desired might be postponed, untill I could hear 
in what Manner it would affect the Interests of Pennsylvania. 8 

Your opinion on this subject, will much oblige. 

873. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

New York June 19th 1788. 
Sir, 

I have delayed writing to your Excellency this week in hopes of being 
enabled to transmit the decision of Congress upon the application for an 
extension of the term allowed for exhibitting the accounts of the State 
against the United States, this may possibly be obtained tomorrow, but 
as that is not absolutely certain, I waite no longer for it. The Board of 
Treasury are forming a report upon Mr. Dunscombs letter taken in con- 
junction with one they have received from Mr. Winder, and it is their 
intention, so to form the report, as that it may serve to remove, or recon- 
cile, the difficulties existing between the two Commissioners, and I have 
some reason to believe they will also recommend a general extension of 
the time allowed by the ordinance, for a few months. Should this recom- 
mendation come from the Board, it is probable Congress will agree to it, 
but I must still repeat my former observation, that it will be best for 
Mr. Dunscomb to proceed to render the Accounts, in whatever arrange- 
ment they may be, throwing upon the other Commissioner the business of 
new Statements, if such shall be necessary. The delegation will urge the 
decision of Congress upon this application, and upon its being obtained 
no time will be lost in transmitting it, together with the report of the 
Treasury Board. 2 

[87a] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., I. 3 (addressed "J. Nicholson Esqr. Comp- 
troller of the State of Pennsylvania Philadelphia"). 

2 The resolve respecting invalid pensions was adopted June 11 and was trans- 
mitted to the several states by Secretary Thomson June 14 (Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 153; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 314; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 478). The resolution 
elicited an inquiry from the governor of Virginia, addressed to the delegates Aug. IX, 
with regard to the interpretation of the act (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers). 

8 The only motion recorded in the Journals under June 17 is one to instruct the 
secretary of Congress to furnish the board of treasury a copy of a certain letter, a matter 
which could scarcely have stirred any objection. There was however a report of the 
secretary of Congress on a petition of Lloyd Powell, an invalid, which did affect Penn- 
sylvania ; but there is nothing in the Journals to indicate that action was postponed. The 
undated motions placed in the Journals under June 11 would appear to have originated 
the act of June 14. 

[873] J Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 458. 

2 The report of the board of treasury was rendered June 23, and Congress took 
action June 24. See no. 875, post. Cf. nos. 842, 866, ante. 



June, 1/88 755 

874. Nathaniel Gorham to Nathan Dane. 1 

Boston June 23d, 1788. 
D'r Sir, 

Mr. Otis last week informed me that Congress had ordered Mr. 
Hutchins to run the Line between the State of N York and the United 
States as also between the U S. and Massachusetts 2 — from which I am 
led to suppose that Congress expect to avail themselves of a large triangu- 
lar piece of land within the Jurisdiction of New York. In order to do 
which I conceive it is necessary to prove that Massachusetts] has a well 
grounded claim to Teritory west of Hudsons River, which never can be 
done as she has given up that claim and I have a right now to say that if 
she had not given it up she never could have made it good and how Con- 
gress can hold under an undetermined or with drawn claim I know not. 
The right which Massachusetts has to the Land within the State of N York 
is the same that you or I might have vizt. by an instrument under hand 
and seal, and the conditions required in that Cession must be complied 
with before Massachu'ts or any under her can have a Legal title to the 
Land. Massachusetts has sold the whole of this right with a power of 
compliance with all the conditions to individuals. I have therefore no con- 
ception that Congress can make good any claim — as the Jurisdiction must 
be determined by the N Y cession consiquently the property must be deter- 
mined by the Laws of that State — and they will I presume know no rule 
but their own cession and Laws for governing property — and it is easy 
to se[e] that they will not be prejudiced in favor of the Congressional 
claim — as that must be founded on Mass. having a charter right to that 
country which N Y have allways denied. 

I must beg you to examine the N Y and Mass. cession — and the grant 
from N Y to Mass. and give me your opinion on the subject — and allso 
to write me how this business originated in Congress. I intended to be 
more full on the subject — but am interupted by the Board of Overseers — 
who meets this day on the case of Professor Williams who I think has by 
his foolish conduct ruined himself. 3 

875. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

«. New York June 25, 1788. 

I have the Honor to inclose to your Excellency the resolutions of Con- 
gress passed yesterday in consequence of the application of Virginia for 
an extension of the time for exhibiting her accounts against the United 
States. 2 I hope the time now given will be fully adequate to the object, 

[874] l Beverly Historical Society. 

2 See the Journals, June 6 ; also nos. 797, 798, 864, ante. 

3 Samuel Williams (1743-1817). See Josiah Quincy, History of Harvard Uni- 
versity, II. 263. 

[875] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

2 The resolutions were adopted June 24, on a report of the board of treasury 
June 23. See nos. 842, 866, 873, ante, 882, 913, post. Secretary Thomson transmitted the 
act of June 24 (presumably also the treasury report) to the states the same day. Sec- 
retary's Letter-Book, p. 154; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 323; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 479. 



756 Continental Congress 

especially as the second resolution clearly opens the way to the admission 
of evidence for a very long time after the accounts are rendered, this how- 
ever depends greatly upon the commissioner on the part of the State, 
a Man of capacity and an accommodating disposition may remove difficul- 
ties which to one of another description might stand as insuferable ob- 
stacles. I own that, to me, the Ordinance appears to be calculated, if prop- 
erly understood, and acted upon with industry, by the State Commis- 
sioners, to procure tolerably equal justice to all the States. 

In order that every possible Misunderstanding may be removed in Vir- 
ginia I do myself the Honor to accompany the resolutions with a report 
of the Board of Treasury which is pretty full upon Mr. Dunscombs 
letter. 

I beg leave to assure your Excellency that upon the present occasion a 
very liberal respect has been paid to the application of Virginia by both 
Congress and the Treasury Board, as no request of the kind has come from 
any other State, and the general terms of the Resolutions have been adopted 
only to take off the inconvenience which might have resulted from the 
example of a special indulgence. 8 

In consequence of your Excellencies intimation upon inclosing to the 
delegation Colo. Jos. Martins letter, we laid the whole of your communi- 
cation before Congress, and it has been resolved that an Agent be appointed 
for the Cherokee Indians, whereupon Colo. Martin was elected to continue 
in Office for Six Months from his entering upon duty. I have advised 
the Secretary at War to forward his communications to Colo. Martin, 
through the hands of your Excellency.* 

876. Edward Carrington to James Madison. 1 

., , . New York June 25, 88. 

My dear Sir, J J 

I was honoured with your favor of the 13th Instant. I hope the Ken- 
tucky Members must have seen that all the objections which have been 
brought forward by the Antefederalists upon the ground of the Mississippi 
are fallacious. Mr. Brown, our Colleague from that Country is fully 
convinced of this, and has written to that purpose, to some of the Gentle - 
men who are attending in convention. I should suppose that his opinion 
must have weight, as he is zealously attentive to the Interests of the West- 
ern settlers. 2 

• Cf. no. 863, ante. See also Comptroller John Nicholson of Pennsylvania to 
President Franklin June 26, in Pa, Arch., first scr., XI. 323 ; also nos. 882, 883, post. 

* See the Journals, May 20, 26, June 19, 20. 
[876] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

1 See no. 865, ante, and no. 877, post. Cyrus Griffin wrote to Madison June 18. 
" We are not very sanguine upon the event of the proposed constitution in Virginia " 
(Madison Papers). The following note (ibid.), written by Carrington but signed also 
by Brown and Griffin, was probably supplementary to Carrington's letter, and the en- 
closure was probably an announcement of the ratification of the Constitution by New 
Hampshire. See Hamilton to Madison June 27, in Hamilton's Works (1850 ed.), I. 462. 
Cf. no. 479, post. 

" 1/2 after 12, June 25, 1788. 
"Dear Sir, 

The inclosed this moment came to hand. Contemplating the critical state of the subject 
it concerns in Virginia we thought it best to despatch it by express, rather than depend 
on the progress of the post." 



June, 1788 757 

But little discovery has yet been made of the turn likely to be given to 
the business in the Convention of New York, the inclosed papers con- 
tain the speeches of the Chancellor for, and of Mr. Lansing against the 
constitution, were an Assembly collected disposed to profit by discussion 
I would not wish a better advocate for the adoption than Mr. Lansing. 3 



877. John Brown to Archibald Stuart. 1 

New York June 25th 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I do not expect that Congress will assent to the Independence 
of Kentucky agreeably to the Acts of Seperation passed by Virginia A 
Resolution has passed appointing a Committee to bring in an Ordinance 
for the Admission of Kentucky into the Union in a mode conformable 
to the Articles of Confederation. The Committee are of Opinion that 
there is no power vested in Congress for that purpose and that nothing 
further can be done under the present application than to report an Addi- 
tional Article granting such powers to be refered to the different States 
for their ratification. 2 This will not answer our purpose as the Compact 
between the District and Virga. will close on the 4th of July if not ratifyed 
by Congress. The Eastern States are opposed to the measure least an- 
other Vote should be added to the Southern States. Others are opposed 
least it shd. embarrass the New Govt. Kentucky must and will be 
independent 

3 Melancton Smith wrote to Nathan Dane June 28, or thereabouts :".... my 
great object is, to procure such amendments in this government as to prevent its at- 
taining the ends, for which it appears to me, and to you calculated. I am therefore very 
anxious to procure good amendments. ... I inclose you the amendments as far as they 
have been offered — the last has been the subject of two days debate, and will take 
some days more. Mr. Hamilton and the Chancellor have spoken largely in favour of the 
Article. Mr. Lansing and myself have advocated the amendment. The speech published 
for the Chancellor is the substance of what he delivered. He and I have come in contact 
several times — but he has ceased hostilities. He is a wretched reasoner, very frequently. 
Hamilton is the champion, he speaks frequently, very long and very vehemently — has, like 
publius, much to say not very applicable to the subject." From the original in the 
Beverly Historical Society ; copy in possession of the Carnegie Institution. 

[877] 1 Va. Hist. Soc., Stuart Papers, p. 15 (addressed to Stuart "In Convention 
Richmond Virginia " ) . 

2 The resolution referred to was adopted June 2, the committee appointed June 3. 
On July 2 the committee asked to be discharged, and Brown and Carrington made a 
motion for the ratification of the compact between Virginia and Kentucky. On July 3 
Brown's motion was postponed and a motion by Dane of Massachusetts, seconded by 
Tucker of South Carolina, was substituted, deferring the question for determination by 
the new government. See nos. 846, 855, 859, 862, 865, 875, ante, 878, 880, 881, 006, 913, 
post. 

Rufus King wrote to Nathan Dane from Newburyport June 27 : "I am very much 
at a loss to account for the act of Congress concerning the admission of Kentucky into 
the Confederacy, from conversation with various characters I believe the measure if 
completed by congress, will not be relished in this quarter." Copied from the original, 
then in the possession of C. F. Libbie and Company of Boston. 



758 Continental Congress 

878. Paine Wingate to Samuel Lane. 1 

New York, June 26, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 The western country, which is yet to people, is immense and I 
do believe it a country in which the inhabitants can subsist themselves as 
easy as in any part of the world ; but they have many disadvantages. They 
are now settled in that country, some of them, a thousand miles from 
sea. The Spaniards are on their west and south and tribes of savages in 
the midst of them, and they will, I believe, have wars with both of them 
sooner or later. Congress have agreed to sell large tracts of that country 
and others are applying. 

I hope that it will yield some emoluments to the United States. The 
Congress will, I suppose, pretty soon take up the new system and prepare 
to put it in motion. I hope that by the latter end of August we shall be 
able to adjourn. For my own part I am not tarrying here any longer than 
is indispensable. I have my health and find my situation more agreeable 
than I expected. We have agreed that Kentucky should be independent 
in a mode conformable to the Confederation, but it can not take place in 
the present situation of affairs. 8 .... 

879. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (John Langdon). 1 

New York July 2d 1788. 
Sir, 

We were honored last evening with the letter of the 25th of June, 
enclosing the ratification of the new federal Constitution by the State of 
New-Hampshire, and had the honor of laying it before Congress this day : 
upon which a Committee was appointed to report to Congress the neces- 
sary arrangements in order to carry into effect the new System of Gov- 
ernment according to the recommendation of the general Convention of 
the States.* 

We have the additional pleasure to inform you that by authentic let- 
ters received this day from Virginia, it appears that their Convention, 
on the 25th ultimo, determined the question in favor of the new govern- 
ment by a Majority of ten members. 

[878] l Life of Wingate, I. 232. 

2 The omitted passages arc chiefly concerning news from New Hampshire and 
Virginia relative to the Constitution, and news from France. 

8 Sec no. 877, ante. 
[879] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9580 (signed by Wingate and Gilman and 
in the writing of the latter). 

2 New Hampshire being the ninth state to notify Congress of its ratification of 
the Constitution had completed the necessary number of states for effectuating that in- 
strument. Accordingly it now devolved upon Congress to provide the necessary mea- 
sures for putting the Constitution into operation. For the appointment of a committee 
to report the necessary arrangements there was a single negative, Yates of New York, 
while the Rhode Island delegates asked to be excused from voting. Delaware and 
North Carolina had no delegates on the floor. The committee made its report July 8, 
but it was not until Sept. 13 that the completed act was adopted. For the intervening 
proceedings see the Journals, July 0, 14, 28, 36, Aug. 4-7, 13, 26, Sept. 2-4, 12. Cf. nos. 
880, 884-886, 888-891, 894. Post. 



July, 1788 759 

880. The Secretary of Congress to Samuel McDowell. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

July 3d, 1788. 
Sir, 

In obedience to the orders of the United States in Congress Assembled, 
I have the honor to transmit to you herewith enclosed the proceedings of 
Congress relative to the Independency of the district of Kentucky. From 
these you will perceive that though Congress think it expedient that the 
district be made a separate State and member of the Union, yet the pres- 
ent state of the government of the Confederacy renders it highly improper 
for them to proceed further than to express their opinion that the district 
ought to be an Independent member of the Union, as soon as circum- 
stances will permit measures to be taken for that purpose ; and to recom- 
mend as they have done to the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Vir- 
ginia and to the inhabitants of the district so to alter their Acts and Reso- 
lutions relative to this matter as to render them conformable to the pro- 
visions in the New Constitution to the end that no impediment may be in 
the way of the speedy accomplishment of this important business. 2 

I have only to add that from the 4th of March to the 30th of May, 
Congress for want of a sufficient number of States could not take up the 
Subject. 8 

881. Theodore Sedgwick to Nathan Dane. 1 

Stockbridge 3 July, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

I give you my sincere thanks for your two last letters reed, by the post 
at Springfield, on my way from Boston. 

I am glad to be informed that congress have no determination to admit 
Kentucky into the Union, because instead of congress possessing a power 
of authorising the dismemberment of the states, their entirety seems gaur- 
antied, by the spirit of the confederation 

As you seem to believe that congress will have no business of great 
importance to transact, before the first of August, it is not probable that 
before that time I shall be in N York. 2 

[880] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 155 (addressed to " Samuel 
McDowell Esqr. late President of the Convention of Kentucky"). 

2 By the resolution adopted July 3 the secretary of Congress was instructed to 
send a copy of the proceedings to the legislature of Virginia and to Samuel McDowell, 
late president of the Kentucky convention, with the recommendation of Congress that 
Virginia and Kentucky so alter their acts and resolutions as to make them comfortable 
to the provisions of the Constitution. A briefer letter to Virginia, of the same date, 
is recorded in the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 154. See no. 877, note 2, ante. 

3 On the Letter-Book copy is the following notation : " NB — a duplicate was 
transmitted July 9th, 1788". The despatches were transmitted through Brigadier- 
General Josiah Harmar July 4, and the duplicates sent July 1 9 were through the same 
channel (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 156). On his copy of the letter of July 9 Thomson 
noted : " NB. the letter of 4th of July not copied." A letter from Harmar July 23 with 
regard to the despatches was read in Congress Aug. 22, and Thomson replied Sept. 2 
(ibid., p. 163). 

[881] 1 Beverly Historical Society. 
2 Sedgwick attended July 31. 



760 Continental Congress 

882. The Pennsylvania Delegates to John Nicholson. 1 

Sir, 

Previous to the receipt of your Letter of the 26th Ulto. an Applica- 
tion had been made by the State of Virginia, for an Extension of the 
Period, to which the Ordinance of Congress of the 7 May confined the 
Commission of the Officers, who were to be appointed for adjusting the 
Accounts betwixt the United States and the Individual States. 

Congress, influenced by Reasons similar to those you have adduced in 
favor of the Measure, entered into a Resolve, (of which the inclosed is a 
Copy) which we hope will prolong the Duration of the Duties of this 
Department, sufficiently to enable Pennsylvania to make a final Settlement 
of her Accounts with the United States.* 

New york July 7th 1788. 

883. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Board of Treasury. 1 

We the Delegates of the State of Pennsylvania, in compliance with in- 
structions, and in virtue of powers, received from the said State, do hereby 
offer to contract (in behalf of the said State,) with the Honble Board of 
Treasury, for a tract of land belonging to the United States, contained in 
the interval betwixt a Meridian Line, run between Lake Erie and the state 
of Pennsylvania, and the Boundaries of the States of New York and 
Massachusetts, at the rate of three- fourth of a dollar per acre; payable 
in Gold or Silver, or in public securities of the United States, bearing 
interest; when the quantity ascertained by actual survey, in the manner 
prescribed by a Resolution of Congress, of the 7th of June, 1788.' 

New York, July 7, 1788. 

884. John Swann to James Iredell. 1 

New York, July 7th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favor some time since, and should have acknowledged 
it some time before this, but was at that time in the height of the small- 
pox. 2 

[88a] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Bingham, signed by 
him and Reid, and addressed to " John Nicholson Esqr. Comptroller of the State of 
Pennsylvania Philadelphia"). 

2 Such a letter from Nicholson to the delegates has not been found, but a letter 
of evidently a like purport, June 26, to President Franklin is in Pa. Arch., first ser., 
XI. 323. See no. 875, ante. 

[883] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 383 (signed by Bingham and Reid). 

2 See no. 864, ante. The acceptance of the board of treasury, Aug. 28. is in 
Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 382. See also the report of the council to the assembly (un- 
dated), ibid., p. 528. A motion of the Pennsylvania delegates in accordance with this 
agreement was made Sept. 1, referred to a committee, who reported Sept. 3, and Con- 
gress took action Sept. 4. The act was transmitted to President Franklin by the secretary 
of Congress the same day (Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 387). See also ibid., pp. 389-391, 
395, 427, 429, 528, 529, and nos. 958, 962, 964, post. 

[884] * N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1107; Life of Iredell, II. 228. 

2 See nos. 855. 857, 869, ante. Some comments on the ratification of the Con- 
stitution arc here omitted. 



July, 1788 761 

.... We are, Sir, in the most painful Suspence for Carolina. I con- 
fess I shou'd be most sensibly mortified were Carolina to reject the Consti- 
tution however unavailing her dissent might be with regard to its Estab- 
lishment and doubly so when I reflect that in such a determination they 
wou'd have the Countenance of Rhode Island alone, who in all probability 
may veer about when a certain State-System of business is gone thro' with. 3 

The Arrangements for putting the new Government into Action have 
been committed for some days and in all probability will be reported on this 
Week. 4 .... 

885. Peleg Arnold to Welcome Arnold. 1 

New York nth July 1788. 
Sir, 

We have this Day Thirteen States on the Floor of Congress which has 
not been until the present case Since the year 1 776. 

Ten States having Ratified the New Constitution, Congress are now 
Deliberating on the Time for the States to appoint Ellectors, to Choose a 
President, and when Proceedings Shall commince under said Constitution. 
In this Important Business from the perculiar Situation of our State the 
Delegation have Declined to act From the preasent appearance this is the 
Last year that Congress will assemble under the old Conf ediration ; The 
time Reported by the Com'tee to assemble under the New Goverment 
is the first monday in February Next, that Question has not yet been 
Ditermin'd on ; but I beleave it will not Exceed that Time. 2 

The information from this States Convention has generally Been that 
they would not addopt the New Constitution; But the Last Reports say 
that the Federal Party gain Strength and it is generally believed here that 
it will be addopted I presume the amendments by the Virginia Conven- 
tion have had Considerable influence on the minds of the Members of 
this State Convention which has ocationed this change 

886. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

New York, July 16, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

The enclosed papers will give you the latest intelligence from Pough- 
keepsie. It seems by no means certain what the result there will be. Some 
of the most sanguine calculate on a ratification. The best informed ap- 
prehend some clog that will amount to a condition. The question is made 
peculiarly interesting in this place, by its connexion with the question rela- 

3 Hugh Williamson, in a letter to Iredell the same day (Life of Iredell, II. 227), 
goes more particularly into the disagreeable prospect of North Carolina being classed 
with Rhode Island and New York, and concludes, " it is to be hoped they will neither 
copy New York, nor Rhode Island ". 

4 See no. 879, ante ; cf. no. 935, post. 

[885] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (addressed to "Welcome Arnold 
Esqr. Providence Pr. Capt. Godfrey " ) . 

2 See nos. 879, 880, 884, ante, 886, 888-891, 894, post. 

[886] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 236; Papers, II. 672; 
Elliot, Debates, V. 573. 



762 Continental Congress 

tive to the place to be recommended for the meeting of the first Congress 
under the new Government. 2 

13 States are at present represented. 8 A plan for setting this new 
machine in motion has been reported some days, but will not be hurried 
to a conclusion. 4 Having been but a little time here, I am not yet fully in 
the politics of Congress. .... 

887. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Georgia 
(George Handley). 1 

July 17, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your Ex'y herewith enclosed an Act 
lately passed by the United States in Congress Assembled entitled "A 
supplement to an Ordinance entitled An Ordinance for ascertaining the 
the mode of disposing of land in the Western territory, 2 also a report of a 
Committee which has been agreed to by Congress touch'g the offer made 
by the State of Georgia to cede her claim to a certain tract of territory; * 
and an Act passed instruct'g the Superintend 't and Com'rs for the south- 
ern department to notify, if necessary, to the hostile Indians that should 
they persist in refusing to enter into a treaty upon reasonable terms the 
Arms of the United States shall be called forth for the protection of that 
frontier and the subsequent order passed to give efficiency to this instruc- 
tion. 4 I hope this will have the desired effect in restoring peace to your 
borders. 

888. Paine Wingate to John Pickering. 1 

New York July 17, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Heartily fatigued with the business of the day, and with writing I set 
down to write you a very hasty letter 

2 Cf. Madison to Washington July 21 and to Randolph July 22 (Writings, V. 237, 
239). See also nos. 888-890, 896, 899-902, post. 

• Cf. no. 885, ante. 

« See nos. 879-881, 884, 885, ante, 888-891, 894, post. 

6 Madison wrote to Jefferson July 24, " I returned here about ten days ago from 
Richmond which I left a day or two after the dissolution of the Convention ( Writinas, 
V. 240). 

[887] ■ Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 157. 

3 A circular letter to the states transmitting the supplement to the land ordi- 
nance (adopted July 9) is in the Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 156; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
XL 339; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 483. See no. 853, note 4, ml*. 

8 The offered cession (act of Feb. 1, 1788) was laid before Congress May 29. 
The committee report (rendered July 14) and the resolves are in the Journals, July 15. 
Cf. nos. 830-832, 838, 859, ante. 

4 See the Journals, July 15; also no. 913, post. The following note was ad- 
dressed to Secretary Thomson by the postmaster general July 18 : " Mr. Hazard pre- 
sents his Compliments to Mr. Thomson, and informs him that a Post for Pittsburg will 
leave Philadelphia on Tuesday next. Friday July 18th, 1788" (Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 49. f. 155). 

[888] l Copy from the original furnished by the courtesy of Mr. C. E. L. Wingate of 
Winchester, Massachusetts; Life of Wingate, I. 235. 



July, 1788 763 

We have now a full representation in Congress from all the States. 
Have not yet made the arrangements for the new Congress. The first 
Wednesday in Dec. is proposed for chusing electors of President, and 
the last Wednesday of that month for the choice of President. The 
beginning of Feb. it is probable Congress will meet and it is yet mere con- 
jecture that Philadelphia will be the place. A few days will now determine 
all those points. 2 .... 

Next Wednesday is the day appointed for the procession in New York 
celebrating the new constitution which is to be with extraordinary pomp. 3 
I believe the late principle transactions of Congress will be in your news- 
papers and needless here to mention. I hope we shall adjourn after a while, 
if not I think I shall return by the beginning of Sept. when I hope I shall 
have the pleasure of seeing you and all our friends well. 

889. Samuel Alleyne Otis to George Thatcher. 1 
Dear Sir, New York 17 July 1788. 

.... and first I inform you That we have had Thirteen States fre- 
quently upon the floor and have been very industrious. 2 What have you 
been about ? Look at the Journal. One thing seems to be agreed, that new 
government is to take place about mid winter. Next week perhaps the 
Time will be agreed upon. The place will be a bone of Contention. South- 
ern people are opposed to N Y, and I think the Yorkers hang back in such 
manner am rather of opinion it will not be here. 3 For my own part I am 
in present sentiment for N York but we are all in suspense for the doings 
of Convention. Probably the question will this day be taken therein. I am 
of opinion it will not be a favorable decision. Clinton is popular has a 
majority at command and is very violent. They may possibly adjourn 
which is the best expectation I form. The Yorkers are determined how- 
ever to have their frolic, and I dont know but we are in danger of run- 
ing into excess in regard to processions. 4 Perhaps my gravity and aver- 
sion to parade may have induced this opinion. It is an implied triumph 
over minority which always irritates. I think the movements of the new 
Govt should be mild discreat and attended with great circumspection 

890. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

Dear Sir, N - Y ° RK ^ »• 'T 88 - 

. . . . 2 Congress have deliberated in part on the arrangements for 

putting the new machine into operation, but have concluded on nothing 

2 Cf. nos. 879, 880, 884-886, ante, 889-891, 894, post. 
8 See nos. 889, 891, 894, 896, post. 
[889] * Hist. Magazine, XVI. 349. 

2 Cf. nos. 885, 886, ante. The text of this letter in Historical Magazine begins 
as here. 

3 Cf. nos. 886, 890, 902, post. 

4 See no. 888, ante, and nos. 891, 894, 896, post. 

[890] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings, V. 237; Letters, I. 403; 
Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, IV. 809. 

2 In the omitted passage Madison refers to an inquiry which he had received 
from Hamilton, what Madison thought of the possibility of New York being received 

55 



764 Continental Congress 

but the times for choosing electors etc.* Those who wish to make N. York 
the place of meeting studiously promote delay. Others who are not swayed 
by this consideration do not urge despatch. They think it would be well 
to let as many States as possible have an opportunity of deciding on the 
Constitution ; and what is of more consequence, they wish to give oppor- 
tunities where they can take place for as many elections of State Legisla- 
tures as can precede a reasonable time for making the appointments and 
arrangements referred to them.* .... 

891. Abraham Clark to Thomas Sinnickson. 1 

New York July 23d 1788. 
Sir, 

I am favoured with yours of the 12th instant by Major Story which I 
reed, yesterday, his Journey I find has been unsuccessful. 2 

As to my sentiments respecting the new System of Government, altho' 
you do not ask, yet, as I find by your Letter it will be Acceptable, I think 
it not amiss to give them. They have at no time been concealed. I never 
liked the System in all its parts. I considered it from the first, more a Con- 
solidated government than a federal, a government too expensive, and 
unnecessarily Oppressive in its Opperation ; Creating a Judiciary undefined 
and unbounded. With all these imperfections about it, I nevertheless 
wished it to go to the States from Congress just as it did, without any 
Censure or Commendation, hoping that in Case of a general Adoption, 
the Wisdom of the States would soon amend it in the exceptionable parts. 
Strong fears however remained upon my mind untill I found the Custom 
of Recommending amendments with the Adoptions began to prevail. This 
set my mind at ease. It became clear in my opinion from the Oppositions, 
and the general concurrence in proposing amendm'ts that the present plan 
must undergo some alterations to make it more agreable to the minds 
of the great Numbers who dislike it in its present form. The Amend- 
ments I wish are not numerous; many proposed by the different Con- 
ventions appear of but little Consequence, yet some are important and 
must be Acceded to if ever the Government sits easy. From this State of 
the matter, wishing amendm'ts as I do, you will readily conclude I 

on the basis of " the reservation of a right to recede in case our amendments have not 
been decided upon in one of the modes pointed out in the Constitution within a certain 
number of years, perhaps five or seven" (Library of Congress, Madison Papers). 
Madison's reply was a decided negative (ibid., Hamilton Papers). Hamilton's letter 
was written July 19, Madison's the 20th. Both letters are in Doc. Hist, of the Con- 
stitution, IV. 802-804, and in Hamilton's Works (1850), I. 464, 465. Cf. no. 895, post. 

8 The clause of the committee report providing for the choice of electors on 
the first Wednesday in December being under consideration July 14 (see also the 
Journals, July 8), an amendment was offered and defeated. Cf. nos. 894, 899, post. 

4 There are further remarks on the subject. 
[89I] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroc Coll., I. 25 (addressed, "Thomas Sinnickson Esquire 
Salem New Jersey Free Abra : Gark " ; on the wrapper is the further direction, " The 
Post Master at Philada. is desired to forward this to Mr. Sinnickson"). 

2 Respecting the claims of John Story see the Journals, Feb. 7, Apr. 26, June 7, 
1785, Feb. 1, Mar. 12, 25, July 28, Sept. 5, 1788. Reports upon his memorials had been 
uniformly adverse (see Apr. 26, 1785, Feb. 1. Mar. 25. 1788), nevertheless a committer 
appointed Mar. 12 and renewed July 28, reported Sept. 5 in favor of a definite sum 
" in full consideration of all his past services and claims ". 



July, 1788 765 

anxiously wish every state may come into the adoption in order to effect a 
measure with me so desirable; in which case, from the general current 
of amendments proposed, we shall retain all the important parts in which 
New Jersey is interested 8 

It is said the Speaker is about calling our Legislature on account of the 
Adoption of the New Constitution; this is altogether unnecessary as the 
New Congress will not be convened before February, the Situation of 
several States require such a distant time; the usual time of meeting in 
October will be soon enough to make the necessary provision for appoint- 
ing officers etc. 

We have been some time in suspense about the event of the new Consti- 
tution in this State. The Accounts of last evening were that the Conven- 
tion had adjourned to a future day; if that is the case they mean at next 
meeting to adopt it. before I seal this I may likely hear whether the 
above report is true or not. 

P. S. I cannot find that the acct. of the Convention adjourning is 
Supported by any good Authority. 4 

3 Some passages respecting the state's paper money are here omitted. 

4 Although the state of New York had not yet ratified the Constitution, never- 
theless, on the day Clark was writing, the city was celebrating the adoption of the 
Constitution with an elaborate procession and ceremonies. The Order of Procession 
In honor of the Constitution of the United States " is found in the New York Daily 
Advertiser of July 23 and in the New York Journal and Daily Patriotic Register of 
the same day. The procession was led by " Two Horsemen with Trumpets " and " One 
Piece of Artillery ", followed by ten divisions, chiefly composed of artisans and mechanics 
of every kind. The ninth diyision included gentlemen of the bar, the Philological Society, 
the president and students of the college, and merchants and traders ; in the tenth di- 
vision were the Cincinnati, clergy, physicians, strangers, and militia officers ; bringing up 
the rear was one piece of artillery. One feature of the ceremony was the launching of 
the federal ship, the head of which was a figure of Alexander Hamilton, holding the 
Constitution in his right hand. It appears however that in launching the ship the arm of 
the Hamiltonian figure was broken off ; whereupon one bystander is said to have exclaimed, 
" with some humour ", " Gentlemen, there is certainly room for amendments ". Cf. nos. 
888, 889, ante, and nos. 894, 896, post. 

On July 24, the day following the celebration, the New York Journal and Weekly 
Register (which is the title used for that day, although other issues, as indicated above, 
bore the sub-title Daily Patriotic Register) offered some comments on the procession: 

" Yesterday the Grand Procession, ' in honor of the Constitution of the United States ', 
paraded to and fro, and walked up and down, in this city, to the novel entertainment of 
all classes of people. The procession made a very pompous appearance, and was con- 
ducted in a regular and decent manner. . . . 

" It was really laughable to see the variety of phizzes on this occasion. The poar \_sic\ 
antis generally minded their own business at home ; others, who were spectators at an 
awful distance, looked as sour as the Devil. As for the feds, they rejoiced in different 
degrees — there was the ha, ha, ha! and the he, he, he!. . . . 

" We are informed, that the honorable the Congress and gentlemen of the clergy, 
declined walking at the procession, on account of this not being a ratifying state : they 
however accepted a seat at the table. ..." 

For an account of the celebration in Philadelphia and elsewhere, as well as for an 
aftermath of the New York affair, see McMaster, History of the People of the U. S., 
I. 492-501. 



766 Continental Congress 

892. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 

(Edmund Randolph). 1 

<-.. New York July 25, 1788. 

We do ourselves the honor to inclose to your Excellency a paper which 
was put into our hands a few days ago by the Minister of France at a 
conference he had with us at his own request upon the case of Capt. 
Ferrier, the subject of a late Resolution of Congress. 

Your Excellency must have Observed from that Resolution that Con- 
gress was careful to avoid a decision as to the Authority to which Capt. 
Ferrier might be amenable, having gone no further than to determine that 
he ought to be apprehended. 

The Minister Mentions the Consular Convention entered into in the 
Year 1784 by Doctor Franklin and the Count Vergennes, as being con- 
sidered a Valid Act by the King of France; it is therefore proper for us 
to inform your Excellency that it has not been Ratified by Congress, 
the Ratification has been delayed on account of some objectionable points, 
upon which Mr. Jefferson is now charged with negotiations, the business 
is, however, in a delicate situation, and it is the wish of Congress that 
the affair of Capt. Ferrier may be so treated as to produce no discussion 
that can possibly be avoided. 2 

893. Paine Wingate to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

<j.. New York, July 26, 1788. 

I shall do myself the honor of addressing this letter to your Excellency, 
conceiving it proper at all times to give such information, as I shall suppose 
your Excellency would wish to receive, or may concern the interest of the 
State. The Secretary of Congress, no doubt, regularly and seasonably 
transmits to New Hampshire such acts and resolves of that body as 
may particularly concern them. Among those acts is one, prolonging the 
time for lodging the claims of the several states against the United 
States with the proper commissioner. 2 These claims will comprehend such 
as any state shall judge to be founded in equity, altho' they are not sanc- 
tioned by resolves of Congress or supported by the usual vouchers. And 
after they are stated, three commissioners hereafter to be appointed will 
have full power to examine into and admit or reject those of this descrip- 
tion as they shall think right and just. This is a most important trust, in 
which all the states are interested, and some very deeply. Virginia, it is 
said, have claims of this kind to a very great amount, and Massachu- 
setts not inconsiderable. Among the rest is the Penobscot expedition. I 
do not know how New Hampshire is circumstanced; but being apprised 
of the measure it is proper to endeavor to be on an equitable footing with 

[89a] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers (signed by Madison, Carrington, and Griffin). 

2 See no. 857, note 3, ante. Concerning the consular convention see nos. 379 
(note O, 716. ante. 
[893 1 1 N. H. State Papers, XXI. 856; Life of Wingate, I. 237. 

2 See the Journals, June 24 ; also no. 875, ante. 



July, 1788 767 

the other states. We had some concern in the Penobscot affair, and very 
probably the state incurred other expences for the common defence and 
welfare, which ought to be adjusted conformably to the general principles 
established for the other states. 

Among other transactions of Congress your Excellency will observe 
the ratifying of the loan of a million of Guilders made last spring by Mr 
Adams in Holland. 3 The state of our finances in this country have 
hitherto been such, that there was no possibility of making payment in 
Europe for the interest of our loans, or for such parts of the capital as 
by installment become due there. It was of importance, especially at this 
juncture, to preserve our credit by a punctual fulfilment of our engage- 
ments. The new Government must require some time to form the regula- 
tions and bring forth the expected resources. Many disadvantages would 
attend a repeated application to the money lenders for smaller sums and 
when pressed with immediate necessity. From these and other good con- 
siderations Mr Adams and Mr Jefferson were both of opinion that it 
would be much for the interest of the united states to secure this needed 
resource to enable us to pay the demands upon us in Europe to the year 
1790 inclusively by which time it is hoped that our internal resources will 
be sufficient to supply our wants without the burden of foreign loans. 
Besides, altho' the contract is made for a certain sum, yet it is not likely 
that the loans will be filled up any faster than the monies shall become 
due there, so that in effect it will be no more than to put upon Interest 
again that interest and those Instalments which shall from time to time 
become due and paying some other necessary expences which arise in 
Europe. I confess that I am extremely averse to the increase of our 
foreign loans, and nothing but necessity and our peculiar situation at this 
time would have induced me to consent thereto. So fully impressed was 
Congress with a sense of the present expediency that there was but one 
dissenting voice. 4 Congress have omitted making the necessary arrange- 
ments for putting the new Government into effect, out of delicacy to the 
situation of New York, 5 whose decision upon the proposed constitution has 
been expected dayly for some time. I have now the pleasure of congratu- 
lating your Excellency upon their adoption which we have just received 
the news of. The particulars are not yet come to hand, only that there was 
a majority of five in favor of an unconditional ratification. The new 
congress cannot meet so early as most expected and many wished for, 
owing to the situation of some of the Southern states. I hope however 
that there will be no necessity of Congress meeting under the present con- 
federation after November next. We have now all the states represented 
in congress and considerable business which requires the attention of that 
body, but expect that as soon as the principal matters are dispatched the 
delegates will many of them return home. Among that number I shall 
be glad to be one, provided that nothing special should require my con- 
tinuance here and my return shall have your Excellency's consent. 6 

3 See the Journals, Oct. IX, 1787; also no. 756, note 3, ante. 
* The ayes and noes on the ratification are not recorded. 

5 Cf. nos. 886, 800, ante. 

6 Cf. no. 899, post. 



768 Continental Congress 

894. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell. 1 

New York, July 26th, '88. 
Dear Sir, 

You may be assured that the delegates from North Carolina have not 
been inattentive to the respect they owe the State, whatever may be their 
private sentiments respecting the new Constitution. When a committee 
had reported, and the question was taken up for putting the new govern- 
ment into motion, and a time was proposed for choosing electors and 
representatives, and for the members entering on business, we stated fully 
the situation of our State, and it was immediately agreed that the time 
should be put off as far as we should allege was absolutely necessary. But 
no final question is yet taken; and we believe we shall be able to obtain 
such delay, that North Carolina may in the " interim " take her measures. 
Every thing on this head is at present stationary. 2 

Some days ago there was a large procession here on ten States having 
confederated. Congress were invited to dine with the company, some 
thousands, under a particular pavilion in the fields. The other States 
attended, but the North Carolina delegates stayed at home. We conceived 
it was a respect we owed the State, not to celebrate an event in our public 
characters, which the State we represent has not hitherto sanctioned by 
her approbation. 8 .... 

895. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell. 1 

New York 26th July 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

We give bad proofs of our Knowledge whatever we may give of our 
Candour while we go on making mistakes and confessing that we have 
made them. After the inclosed was written the information contained in 
the inclosed Paper came to Hand by which it would seem that the New 

[894] l Life of Iredell, II. 235. 

3 See the Journals, July 14 (the committee's proposition and the proposed amend 
ment), and the amended clause recorded under July 28. See also nos. 895, 890, 916, post; 
cf. nos. 886, 890, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 888, 889, 891, ante, and no. 896, post. The minister of France, writing to 
Montmorin Aug. 2, devotes much of his letter to an account of the New York celebra- 
tion and to comments upon it. " J'avois £t£ invite ", he wrote, " et j'ai assist^ a ce repas 
a la droite du Congres et ay ant a la mienne de suite le Ministre Plenip're des I 
Generaux, le Charge d'affaires Plenip're d'Espagne, les Consuls et autres etrangers de 
distinction. A la gauche du Congres etoient ses officiers et les Membres du Qerge de la 
Villc, Anglicans, Presbytenens, Catholiques, Lutheriens, Calvinistes, Juifs, tous u 
tinctement, excepte que 1'Eveque Anglican avois prit la droite de tous les autres et avoit 
dit le benedicite. Le Congres s'etant appcrcu lui-meme qu'il etoit deplacc dans cette fete 
comme faisant corps a voulu soutenir ensuite qu'il n'y avoit point ete comme Con 
mais j'ai insist^ partie en riant, partie sencusement avec les differens Membres que 
telle avoit et6 1'opinion de tout le monde, que sans ccla ils auroient du etre epars parmi les 
convives et que j'aurois du etre a la droite du President. . . . 

" Un des objets de la fete des Citadins de Newyork etoit de cajoler le Congres et de 
1'engager a ajourncr ici le nouveau corps souverain. Le Congres de son cote" a paru 
vouloir remettre sa decision a cet cgard au moment oil la Convention auroit adopte la 
Constitution. Quelqucs uns de ses Membres n'ont pas neglige d'insinuer que cette 
incertitude itoit le seule obstacle qui empechoit le Congres d'ajourner le nouveau ici. 
Ce leurre a eu son effet." Am. Hist. Rev., IX. 86. 



or 



[895] l N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9509 (addressed to Iredell "at Hillsbro 
at Edenton ") ; Life of Iredell, II. 236. 



July, 1788 769 

York Ratification is not like to prove a Hermaphrodite as had been appre- 
hended. 2 Such have been the Effects of the weighty reasoning of the 
minority and other very weighty considerations. By the Way the antifeds 
were conscious that they have in many Cases carryed their Elections by 
imposing false Representations on their Constituents and propagating 
impudent Lyes. We take for granted that N Carolina will not be the only 
associate of Rhode Island. 

896. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Samuel Johnston). 1 

Dear Sir, New York, 27 July, 1788. 

By Express last night from Pokepsie we learn that on Friday 25th a 
motion was made for adopting the new constitution as recommended by 
the general Convention on Septr. last, this motion was carryed by a 
majority of Five, a previous Question had been Taken for adopting the 
constitution for a limited Time and this was lost by a majority of four. 
The paper we shall forward may contain more particulars. 2 

The Inhabitants of this City since the arrival of the above Intelligence 
have hardly been moderate in their expressions of Joy. 3 The state of New 
York had so many arguments of private Interest that seemed- to tempt 
her to adhere to the old form of Government that we confess the Act 
mentioned was rather unexpected at so early a Period. This Event is of 
such Importance that we conceive ourselves bound to give you notice of 
the same by the first conveyance. Captn. Chr. Clarke who was to sail 
early on this morning is charged with this Intelligence which probably will 
be forwarded from Edenton by Express but as water Passages are more 
uncertain we shall forward this by Post and request of some Gentlemen in 
Petersburg to give it furtherance. 

Congress are extremely desirous to fix the Time and Place where and 
when Proceedings shall commence under the new Government ; Hitherto 
they have been restrained, partly as we conceive, from a Regard to the 
feelings of our State; we flatter ourselves however that no time will be 
lost in letting us know the Result after our convention shall have taken 
its Resolution. 4 

2 Madison wrote to Jefferson July 24 particularly of proceedings in the Virginia 
convention and touched also on the situation in New York. On July 26 he added this 
remark: "We just hear that the Convention of this State have determined by a small 
majority to exclude from the ratification anything involving a condition and to con- 
tent themselves with recommending the alterations wished for" {Writings, V. 243). 
See also Madison to his father July 27 {Letters, I. 406; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, 
IV. 821). Cf. no. 896, post. 

[896] 1 Library of Congress, "North Carolina" (in the writing of Williamson and 
signed by him and Swann) ; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 485. 

2 News of the action, July 26, of the New York convention, sitting at Poughkeep- 
sie, reached New York City on the same day (see no. 895, ante). Clinton's letter dated 
July 26, informing Congress of the result, does not however appear to have been publicly 
read until July 30. A like notice from Clinton as president of the convention, dated 
July 26, was sent to the several states (e. g., N. C. Hist. Comm., Legislative Papers). 
See nos. 904, 943, post. 

s See nos. 888, 889, 891, 894, ante. 

4 Madison wrote his father July 27, " The Convention of N. Carolina has not 
been heard from since it met ". See no. 894 note 2, ante. 



?70 Continental Congress 

897. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 
Pennsylvania (Benjamin Franklin). 1 

New York 28th July 1788. 
Sir, 

We had the honor to offer for the consideration of Congress two 
applications from the honourable the Supreme Executive Council of Penn- 
sylvania for a detachment of the Troops of the Union, one dated the 
1 8th and the other the 22d Instant, we took the earliest opportunity in 
our power to effect a speedy determination, the result of which we here- 
with transmit. 2 

P. S. we will move for, and hope to obtain the troops as long as the State 
may require them. 

898. William Irvine to William Alexander. 1 

New York, July 28, 1788. 
Dear Major, 

I confess I do not very well understand the enclosed ordinance, 2 if you 
do it is no matter ; how or whether you will like the arrangement in this 
matter I cannot say, but this much I will assure you that we did for the 
best all matters considered I mean now more particularly the appoint- 
ments. My letter to James contains facts and every thing I ever said on 
the subject except the conversation with yourself. I have left my letter 
open that you may_ [peruse] it and afterward forward to him together 
with what ever you may judge proper to say to him on the subject. 8 .... 
Mr. Hutchins will set out in a few days for the West he says he will be 
detained ten or twelve days in Philadelphia 

There is nothing new here except that N. York has at last adopted the 
new government by a majority of five only, so great was the majority 

[897] » N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 800; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 352. 

2 The letter is signed, Wm. Irvine, John Armstrong, jr., Wm. Bingham, James 
R. Reid. The applications referred to, namely, letters from Vice-President Muhlenberg 
to the delegates, July 18 and 22, are in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 342, 350. They were for 
troops to aid in the suppression of an insurrection in the western part of Pennsylvania 
(Lucerne County), the second application only more specific and urgent than the first. 
A motion by the Pennsylvania delegates July 22 was referred to a committee, who re- 
ported July 24, and Congress took action July 25. Secretary Thomson also trans- 
mitted a copy of the act to President Franklin July 28 (ibid., p. 353). The Pennsylvania 
council appear to have had before them when they took the action of July 18 a 1 
from David Rcdick to President Franklin, written from New York a few days before, 
relating a conference with the secretary at war, as well as with the delegates, and the 
hitter's activities among the members of Congress in behalf of the Pennsylvania ob- 
jective. One of the incidents of the insurrection was the imprisonment by the insurgents 
of Col. Timothy Pickering. See especially ibid., pp. 312, 346, 353, 359, 303-373; also Life 
of Wingate, I. 239. Cf. nos. 898, 008, post. 

[898] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 The supplement to the land ordinance adopted July 9. 

8 The letter to James Irvine, of the same date (copied ibid.), relates to the 
appointment by the geographer of him and Major Alexander as surveyors in the Waba^b 
region. In the same group of materials are two letters from James Irvine to Alexander, 
June 20 and Nov. 2, 1788. 



July, 1788 771 

against it til the last moment that it is evident no other consideration but 
a fear of being left out of the Union induced them to decide, they were 
not convinced of the propriety but the [expediency?]. 4 Congress have 
granted the aid of the Union to [Pennsylvania] in her [endeavor] to 
[suppress] the Wyoming [insurgents] so far as 100 men for two weeks 
will do it, these are recruits on the March of [for?] the Ohio. 5 

[P. S.] 

899. Paine Wingate to Samuel Lane. 1 

New York, July 29, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... All the states are now represented in Congress, but I expect the 
members will many of them return home as soon as some necessary busi- 
ness shall be dispatched. I wish to tarry no longer than necessity shall 
require, out of principle of economy to the state, as well as a fondness for 
home. I therefore purpose to return as soon as the other members are 
scattering, which probably may be in about a month. 2 .... 

I expected this day to have been able to inform you of the place in which 
the new Congress will meet, but the President was so unwell that he could 
not attend and the business was postponed. 3 Congress have agreed that 
the Electors of President shall be appointed on the first Wednesday of 
January, the President be chosen the first Wednesday of February, and 
Congress assemble the first Wednesday of March next. Those periods 
may be thought by some to be very late, but earlier dates could not suit 
the situation of some of the southern states. I believe, notwithstanding 
the meeting of the new Congress is so late, there will not be a necessity 
of another Congress under the present Confederation after November 
next. 4 

There are great struggles between Philadelphia and New York, which 
shall be the place of Congress. I think the former most likely to prevail, 
but this is only a mere conjecture 

900. James Madison to Tench Coxe. 1 

N. York July 30, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been much obliged by your favor of the 23 instant, 2 which I have 
delayed to answer in the daily prospect of being able to include the decision 

4 Cf. nos. 895, 896, ante. 

5 See no. 897, note 2, ante, and no. 908, post. The bracketed words in this text 
are conjectures for the lacunae in the copy obtained. 

[899] x Life of Wingate, I. 239. 
2 Cf. no. 893, ante. 

b Cf. nos. 886, 888-800, 896, ante, 900, 902, post. 
4 See the Journals, July 28. Cf. no. 890, note 3, ante. 
[900] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 Coxe's letter of July 23 is in the Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 



772 Continental Congress 

of Congress on the place for the first meeting of the new government. 
This point continues however unfixt. Perhaps it may be brought to an 
issue to day. From the result of the first question taken on it, the pre- 
tentions of Philadelphia bid fair for success, and it is very possible may in 
the end obtain it. Some circumstances which have intervened with the 
vicisitudes to which such a question in such an Assembly as Congress are 
liable and not withstanding every proper grounds for doubtful if not 
adverse calculations. 8 

The observations addressed to your western inhabitants are in my opin- 
ion as well timed as they are judicious. They will be republish^ <1 here. The 
conspiracy agst direct taxes is more extensive and formidable than some 
gentlemen suspect. It is clearly seen by the enemies to the Constitution 
that an abolition of that power will re-establish the supremacy of the State 
Legislatures, the real object of all their zeal in opposing the system.* .... 

901. Paine Wingate to John Pickering. 1 

New York, July 31, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have been this week much engaged in the dispute where the 
new Congress shall meet. The question is not determined and it is so 
uncertain that I will not give you a conjecture. 2 We have now the fullest 
Congress that has been since the present Confederation. All the states 
are present, consisting of thirty-eight members. To accommodate some 
of the southern states it has been agreed that the Electors of President 
shall be chosen the first Wednesday of January, and the President be 
voted for on the first Wednesday of February, and Congress meet on the 
first Wednesday of March. These periods may be thought by some to be 
too late, but it was judged necessary, all things considered. The ratification 
of New York I think a very favorable event and very unexpected. It 
was brought about by some persons and circumstances little thought of 
some time ago. I cannot now give you any further account of our affairs 
for we are mighty busy. I wrote at this time for the sake of forwarding 
the enclosed letter which is just come to hand. I am very well, and as 
soon as Congress shall thin off and some particular matters be over I hope, 
perhaps within one month from this time, to be on my return home. 
This I begin to be very desirous of, when I hope to sec you and all our 
friends well. 

• See no. 002, post. 

* With his letter of July 23 Coxe had enclosed a paper containing a contribution 
from his pen, " which was written to soothe some remaining discontents in one or two 
of our western Counties that have been very grossly deceived. If it will be of any service 
in the less enlightened parts of New York ' , he added, it might be of use to republish it." 
The article (somewhat more than two columns in length) appeared in the Pennsylvania 
Gazette of July 23, addressed "To the Inhabitants of the Western Counties of Pennsyl- 
vania ", and signed, "A Friend of Society and Liberty ". 

[qo\\ l Life of Wingate, I. 240. 
2 See no. 902, note 3, post. 



August, 1788 773 

902. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

N. York July [August] 2d, 1788. 
My dear friend, 

.... There are public letters just arrived from Jefferson. The con- 
tents are not yet known. 2 His private letters to me and others refer to his 
public for political views. I find that he is becoming more and more a 
friend to the new Constitution, his objections being gradually dispelled by 
his own further reflections on the subject 

Congress have been some days on the question where the first meeting of 
the New Cong's shall be placed. Philada. failed by a single voice from 
Delaware which ultimately aimed at that place, but wished to bring 
Wilmington into view. In that vote N. Hampshire and Connecticut both 
concurred. N. York is now in nomination and if those States accede 
which I think probable, and Rhode Island which has as yet refused to 
sit in the Question can be prevailed on to vote which I also think probable, 
the point will be carried. In this event a great handle I fear will be given 
to those who have opposed the new Govt, on account of the Eastern 
preponderancy in the federal system. 3 .... 

903. William Bingham to Thomas Willing (?). x 

New York August 7, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

My last Letter informed you 2 that the Town of Baltimore had been 
fixed on by Congress as the Place for commencing Proceedings under the 
new Government. As this was a Southern Position, uniting the Suffrages 
of the seven southern states, it was expected that it would have been 
retained, untill the Eastern States made overtures to accommodate, by 
offering Philadelphia as an alternative, in which they would concur. But 
our Expectations were defeated by the Defection of So. Carolina which 
State, on a Motion to strike out Baltimore and insert New York, gave an 
unreserved Concurrence, from an Idea suggested that Baltimore was only 
a circuitous Route to Philadelphia. So violent are their Antipathies to 
this latter Place. 

The Delegates of Rhode Island, who are strong Anti federalists, and 
whose state has formally rejected the Constitution, were seduced into a 

[902] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 235; Papers, II. 671 
(chronologically out of place because of the erroneous date). 

2 Letters of Jefferson May 4, 23, and 30 were laid before Congress Aug. 1. To- 
gether with a private letter to Jay, May 27, concerning his outfit as minister, they are 
in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 147-163, 166. Jay's acknowledgment of the letters, 
Sept. 23, is ibid., p. 166. See also Jefferson to Madison May 25, in Writings* V. 12, 
which chiefly relates to the question of the outfit, and Madison to Jefferson Sept. 21 (no. 
934, post). 

3 See the Journals, July 30, Aug. 4-7; also nos. 888-890, 896, 899-901, ante, 904, 
906, 907, 909, 910, 913-918, post. 

[903] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. 

2 It is conjectured that this letter is to Thomas Willing, father of Bingham's 
wife. In Henkels, Catalogue, no. 683, item 297, is an extract of a letter from Willing to 
Bingham relative to the location of the government. Concerning the proceedings in 
Congress on the question at this time see no. 902, note 3, ante. 



774 Continental Congress 

Vote, (which was requisite to compleat the stipulated number to insure 
Success) to put a Government in Motion, highly inimical to their Views. 
The Indecency of such Conduct struck even their own Partisans with 
Astonishment. 

But a determination on the Place is only one part of the Ordinance ; the 
Periods on which the Electors and the President are to be chosen etc, 
constitute very essential Objects, which they absolutely declined having 
any Agency in determining; It becomes necessary after the various Parts 
of the Ordinance have been individually deliberated on, and assented to, 
that a Question should be taken on the whole, which has no Authenticity 
untill it receives the sanction of seven States; A Sense of the striking 
Impropriety of concurring in an Act of this Nature, has determined the 
Delegates of the State of Rhode Island not to vote on this Question, more 
especially as it is clearly evident that they have no right — they have made 
this Declaration in Congress. The consequence will be that Seven States 
will not be found, who will concur in the Ordinance, whilst New York- 
continues the destined Place for assembling the new Congress. This must 
stagger the Minds of the Eastern Delegates, who are convinced that the 
present Arrangement is an Act of Partiality and oppression to the Southern 
States, and has a View to local Aggrandizement at the Expence of a con- 
siderable Part of the Union. 

Thus stand Affairs at present — what will be the result, Time will 
discover the various Vicissitudes that have already occurred in the pro- 
gress of this Business, leave no Room for probable Conjecture. At any 
rate, there is an appearance of a longer Detention, which for several 
reasons, has become very inconvenient. 

P. S. Please to communicate this Letter to Dr. Rush and Mr. T. Coxe, who 
have wrote to me on this Subject, and I have not Time to answer their 
Letters. 

904. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Augst. 10, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . a Congress have been employed for several weeks on the arrange- 
ment of times and place for bringing the new Government into agency. 
The first has been agreed on though not definitively and make it pretty 
certain that the first meeting will be held in the third week in March. 8 
The place has been a subject of much discussion and continues to be 

[904] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 244; Letters, I. 407; Doc. 
Hist* of the Constitution, V. 11. 

2 The principal omission concerns the New York ratification, of which Madison 
says : " The form of it is remarkable. I inclose also a circular address to the other 
States on the subject of amendments, from which mischiefs are apprehended." Cf. no. 
896, note 2, ante, and no. 910, note 4, post. The circular letter from the New York 
convention to the other states, proposing a second general convention to consider amend- 
ments to the Constitution, is in Correspondence of Joy, III. 353, and Doc. Hist, of the 
Constitution, V. 62. It was attributed to Jay, and certainly Jay advocated it. See his 
letter to Washington Sept. 21, and that to Edward Rutledge Oct. 15, in Correspond 
III. 360, 362 

8 See the Journals, July 8, 14, 28 ; also nos. 890, 899, ante. 



August, 1788 775 

uncertain. Philada. as least eccentric of any place capable of affording due 
accommodations and a respectable outset to the Government was the first 
proposed. The affirmative votes were N. Hampshire, Connecticut, Pennia., 
Maryd., Virga., and N. Carolina. Delaware was present and in favor of 
that place, but one of its delegates wishing to have a question on Wilming- 
ton previous to a final determination, divided that State and negatived the 
motion. N. York came next in view, to which was opposed first Lancaster 
which failed, and then Baltimore which to the surprise of every body was 
carried by seven States, South Carolina which had preferred N. York to 
the two other more Southern positions, unexpectedly concurring in this. 
The vote however was soon rescinded, the State of South Carolina 
receding the Eastern States remonstrating against and few seriously 
urging the eligibility of Baltimore. At present the question lies as it was 
originally supposed to do between N. York and Philada. and nothing 
can be more uncertain than the event of it. Rhode Island which alone 
was disposed to give the casting vote to N. York has refused to give any 
final vote for arranging and carrying into effect a system to which that 
State is opposed, and both the Delegates have returned home. 4 

Mr. Carrington tells me [he] has sent you the first volume of the 
federalist, and adds the 2d by this conveyance. 5 .... 

905. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson. 1 - 

New York August 10th, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

Having but a few Minutes notice of this opportunity by Mr. Tillier I 
can make but little more use of it, than to acknowledge the receipt of your 
favor of the 27th of May, and to send you the second Vol. of the Federal- 
ist, the first, I hope, you have received before this. 2 .... 

The good fortune of the Chevalier Jones in the service of the Empress 
gives me much pleasure, your hint respecting a similar promotion here, 
shall be attended if there shall appear, in the Course of the present session 
of Congress, a prospect of succeeding in an attempt to procure it. I 
regret however that whilst foreign nations are contending for eminence in 
confering distinctions upon this officer, this, of which he professes himself 
a Citizen, should appear, scarcely, to remember the events which founded 
his Character 

906. John Brown to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York August 10th, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 28th May came to hand a few days ago for which 
accept my warmest acknowledgements. 2 

4 Cf. nos. 902, 903, ante, 906, 907, 909, 910, 913-918, post. 

5 See no. 905, post. Madison explains, in cipher, the authorship of the Federalist. 
[905] * Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 See no. 904, ante. Jefferson's letter to Carrington May 27 is in Writings, V. 19. 
[906] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers ; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 9 
(extract). 

2 Jefferson's letter to Brown, with the date May 26, is in Writings, V. 16. 



776 Continental Congress 

I am well convinced of the Justness of your remarks respecting the 
importance of strengthening and maintaining the connection between the 
District of Kentucky and the Maritime States: During my residence in 
that Country it was my constant care to cultivate that Idea But I am sorry 
to inform you that from the present complection of affairs there is reason 
to apprehend that the Connection will not be of long duration. Congress 
have rejected their application to be admitted into the Union as an Inde- 
pendent State notwithstanding it was acknowledged to be reasonable, 
thinking it inexpedient in the present State of the Confederacy and that 
the admission of a New State might affect the Ballance of power unless 
Vermont could be brought forward at the same time. 8 This will be con- 
sidered by the people of that Country as a great disappointment in as 
much as they have been more than three years in bringing forward this 
application and as they are now refered to the new Government, to be 
admitted under which in a Constitutional mode must necessarily be 
attended with considerable delay Their vast increase in population 
(amounting to at least one hundred thousand Souls in that District alone) 
added to the great dangers and difficulty attending a communication with 
the Seat of Government renders their connection with Virginia so bur- 
densom that there is every reason to expect that immediately on betting 
that Congress have refused to receive them they will assume their Inde- 
pendence. Should they take this Step I think it very problematical whether 
or not they will apply for admission into the new Confederacy, especially 
as they are generally opposed to the new Constitution apprehending much 
inconvenience and danger from the Judicial System and fearing that tin 
Powers vested in the General Government may enable to carry into effect 
the proposed Treaty with Spain relative to the navigation of the Mil 
sipi. Indeed the ill advised attempt to cede the navigation of that River 
has laid the foundation for the dismemberment of the American Empire 
by distroying the confidence of the people in the Western Country in the 
Justice of the Union and by inducing them to dispair of obtaining posses- 
sion of that Right by means of any other exertions than their own. How- 
ever as we are informed by the Governor of the Western Territory that 
there is great reason to apprihend a general Indian War, I hope that 
Kentucky will see the danger and impropriety of breaking off from the 
Union at this time and that it may still be in the power of Congress to 
conciliate their minds and to secure their attachment to the Confederacy. 

I inclose you two Gazettes containing the Ratifications of the New 
Constitution by Virginia and New York The Convention of N Carolina 
has been for some time past in Session and we daily expect to hear that 
she has adopted it. Rhode Island it is expected will shortly see the pro- 
priety of acceeding as yet there is a majority in that State opposed. 
Those who were opposed in those States which have ratifyed appear 
generally to acquiess. Congress has been for some time past engaged in 
giving it operation. Electors are to be appointed on the first Wednesday in 
January, to chuse a President on the first Wednesday in February and the 

» Sec the Journals, July 2, 3; also nos. 865, 875-878, 880, 881, ante. 



August, 1788 777 

New Congress to meet on the first Wednesday in March next but the 
place where has been the subject of much warmth and is not yet agreed 
upon, tho I think it probable that it will be at Philadelphia. 4 

I expect to set out in a few days for the Western Country shall take 
pleasure in communicating to you the News of that Country by every 
oppertunity. Should you be so good as to honor me with a letter it will 
find a ready conveyance from New York to me by Post. 5 ...... 

907. Henry Lee to Richard Henry Lee. 1 

New York August 10th, 88. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress are yet engaged concerning the temporary residence 
of the federal govt. N York will probably succeed, notwithstanding the 
ardent love which so many bear for Philada. and therefore Potomac will 
have a good chance for the permanent residence. At all events I think 
that the ten mile's square may be to the South of the Susquehannah 
which will assist in it[s] consequences very much the trade of the 
Chesapeak. 2 .... 

908. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Vice-President of 
Pennsylvania (Peter Muhlenberg). 1 

New York Augt. nth 1788. 
Sir, 

We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 6th 
instant, and will take the earliest oppertunity of communicating the 
pleasing information it contains to Congress; in the mean time we have 
informed the Secretary at War, who will immediately direct the Troops to 
proceed agreeably to their first destination. 2 

909. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

New York, Augst. n, 88. 
My dear friend, 

The length of the interval since my last 2 has proceeded from a daily 
expectation of being able to communicate the arrangements for introduc- 

* Cf. nos. 888-890, 896, 899-902, 904, 906, ante, 909, 910, 913-918, post. 
5 Brown wrote to Madison from Pittsburgh Aug. 26 : " Have not heard any 
thing from Kentucky since the Resolutions of Congress reached them. I am still un- 
determined what they ought to do in the Business I (in confidence) mentioned to you. 
I will thank you for your further observations upon that subject " (Library of Congress, 
Madison Papers). He again wrote to Madison on the subject, from Danville Nov. 23 
(ibid.), acknowledging letters from Madison of dates Sept. 24 and Oct. 12 (see no. 942, 
post). About a month prior to his departure for the west Brown had made a journey 
to the eastern states, bearing a letter of introduction from Henry Knox to John Langdon, 
July 13. Letters by Washington .... and Others to John Langdon, p. 119. 
[907] x Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 902, 906, ante, 909, 910, 913-918, post. 
[908] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Irvine and signed by 
him, Meredith, and Armstrong) ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 373 (with the date Aug. 18). 

2 Muhlenberg's letter is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 364. See nos. 897, 898, ante ; 
also no. 913, post. 

[909] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 246; Papers, II. 673. 
2 Aug. 2 (no. 902, ante). 



778 Continental Congress 

ing the New Government. The times necessary to be fixt by Congress have 
been many days agreed on. 8 The place of meeting has undergone many 
vicisitudes and is still as uncertain as ever. Philada. was first named 
by a member from Connecticut, and was negatived by the voice of one 
from Delaware, who wished to make an experiment for Wilmington. New 
York came next into view. Lancaster 4 was opposed to it and failed. Bal- 
timore was next tried and to the surprize of every one had seven votes, 
South Carolina joining the Southern States and Penna. in the question. It 
was not difficult to foresee that such a vote could not stand, accordingly the 
next day, N. York carried it on a second trial, and at present fills the blank. 
Its success however was owing to Rhode Island whose delegates have 
refused to vote on the final question and have actually gone home. There 
are not at present seven States for any place, and the result must depend 
(Unless R. Island shd. return with instructions as is given out) on the 
comparative flexibility of the Northern and Southern Delegations. In 
ordinary cases this would not augur well to the latter. In the existing one 
something may be hoped from the palpable unreasonableness of the preten- 
sions of N. York, which has 17 Reps, and 8 Senators on one side agst. 
42 Reps, and 16 Senators on the other; which is not more than three 
hundred miles from the Eastern Extreme Metropolis; and not less than 
4 times that distance from the Southern, and which has no reference at 
all to the accomodation of the Western Country. I am persuaded also 
that if the first position be taken here the second will not be taken on the 
Potowmac and that this consideration is among the motives of those who 
advocate N. York. Indeed I know the latter to be one of the 
motives. 5 .... 



910. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

New York, Augst. II, 1788. 2 
Dear Sir, 

... . 3 It was much to be wished that a fit place for a respectable out- 
set to the Govt, could be found more central than either. The former is 
inadmissible if any regard is to be had to the Southern or Western 
country. It is so with me for another reason, that it tends to stop the final 
and permanent seat short of the Potomac certainly, and probably in the 
State of N. Jersey. I know this to be one of the views of the advocates for 

8 July 28. See nos. 899, 902, 904, 906, ante. 

4 That is, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, was offered in opposition to the city of New 
York. The motion was made by Williamson of North Carolina and Seney of Maryland. 
See the Journals, Aug. 4: cf. no. 904, ante. 

6 Cf. nos. 903, 907, ante. 
[910] l Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings, V. 248 (dated Aug. 15); 
Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IV. 232 (with the date Aug. 15) ; Doc. Hist, of 
the Constitution, V. 14. 

2 What is probably an accidental mark beside the second figure of the date has 
led two editors to give the date Aug. 15 to this letter; but there is little doubt that 
Madison wrote "Augst. 11 ", and Washington endorsed the letter as of that date. More- 
over, had the letter been written on Aug. 15 Madison would almost certainly have made 
reference to the proceedings of Aug. 13. 

•The omission is nearly identical with the first part of the letter to Randolph 
Aug. 11 (no. 909, ante). See further no. 916, post. 



August, 1788 779 

N. York. The only chance the Potomac has is to get things in such a train 
that a coalition may take place between the Southern and Eastern States on 
the subject, and still more that the final seat may be undecided for two 
or three years, within which period the Western and S. Western popula- 
tion will enter more into the estimate. Wherever Congress may be, the 
choice if speedily made will not be sufficiently influenced by that considera- 
tion. In this point of view I am of opinion Baltimore would have been 
unfriendly to the true object. It would have retained Congress but a 
moment, so many States being North of it, and dissatisfied with it, and 
would have produced a coalition among those States to a precipitate elec- 
tion of the permanent seat and an intermediate removal to a more northern 
position * 

911. Jeremiah Wadsworth to Andrew Huntington. 1 

New York August 12th 1788. 
Sir, 

I received your favor of the 4th instant and have communicated it to 
Mr Huntington 2 who is with me of the Opinion that every application 
to Congress for redress would be Vain, and it increases the ill will towards 
Connecticut allready too great, to make applications that are rejected. 

It is not difficult to know before hand by enquiry whether a Petition to 
Congress will be negatived or not. this enquiry I have before made re- 
specting Your business, and will certainly present your Petition if I am 
not morally certain before hand that it will be Negatived — if you will 
have a Petition presented, at any rate we will on your Signifying it — 
present one 

Your most Hum Se't 

Jere Wadsworth 

912. The Secretary of Congress to the Postmaster at 
Philadelphia. 1 

August 15, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have to request the favour of you to send the enclosed letters for the 
governors of S Carolina and Georgia by the first vessel for Charleston. 
1 have sent duplicates to go on by the post but as it is of importance that 
they should get to hand as soon as possible and there is no vessel here 
bound for Charleston I take leave to trouble you with forwarding these 
by the first that sails from your port. 2 

4 In the passage here omitted Madison refers to the circular letter from the 
New York convention (see nos. 904, note 2, ante, 918, 943, post), and remarks, "It 
has a most pestilent tendency", etc. See also sundry others of his letters (e. g., Writ- 
ings, V. 251, 253, 256, 262, 277), particularly the letter to G. L. Turberville Nov. 2 
{ibid., p. 297), and that to Jefferson Dec. 8 (ibid., p. 309). 

[911] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin of 
New York (addressed "To Mr. Andrew Huntington Mercht Norwich Connecticut"). 
2 Benjamin Huntington, delegate from Connecticut. 
[9 1 2] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 160. 

2 With the letters to South Carolina and Georgia (Aug. 15, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 160) the secretary transmitted the act of Aug. 14 (see also the Journals, Aug. 

56 



780 Continental Congress 

913. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (Thomas Pinckney). 1 

New York Augt. 16th, 1788. 
Sir, 

Having receiv'd your Excellency's Letter of the 18th July accompanied 
by Papers relating to the Negociation of Peace with the southern Indians, 
we laid the Subject before Congress without Delay and obtain'd a Reso- 
lution for continuing Genl. Winn in the Office of Superintindant of Indian 
Affairs for 3 months after the 29th. of August. 2 With respect to the other 
Objects connected with this Business and recommended by your Excellency 
to our Consideration, we have used our utmost Diligence, being fully 
sensible of it's high Importance to the Welfare of the Southern States. 
The Resolutions of Congress on the Subject we now enclose, and hope 
they will prove satisfactory and adequate to their Intention. Having no 
Power to enforce Compliance from the State of North Carolina, we cou'd 
find no other Method of guarding against the evil Consequences of her 
Neglect, than that which is adopted in the last Resolution. 8 Congress hav- 
ing before taken into serious Consideration the Continuance of Hostilities 
by the Creek Indians, did authorize the Superintendant to inform them, 
if necessary, that the Arms of the United States wou'd be employ'd to 
bring them to reasonable Terms of Accommodation. The Secretary at 
War was at the same time required to report a plan for conducting the 
War, if it shou'd be inevitable. 4 

The Application of the State of Virginia and District of Kentucky, on 
the Subject of erecting the latter into a separate State, having been con- 
sider'd by Congress, a Resolution was pass'd, approving the Measure and 
recommending the farther prosecution of it under the new Government, 
as being alone competent to it's actual Accomplishment. 8 

Congress having pass'd a Resolution to allow a farther Term of 3 
months to the several States for delivering in their Gaims upon the United 
States, a Copy of the same has been forwarded to your Excellency from 
the Secretary's Office.* 

The Act of Cession of western Territory by the State of Georgia being 
clogg'd with Conditions which were not thought proper to be acceded to by 

4), which was supplementary to the act of Oct. 26, 1787, relative to treaties with the 
Southern Indians. A like letter of the same date was sent to the governor of North 
Carolina, but presumably by a different channel (ibid., p. 160; N. C. Hist. Comm.. 
Governor's Papers). On the 14th the secretary had transmitted to Pennsylvania and 
Virginia the act of Aug. 12, relative to the use of the militia of those states on the 
frontier (ibid., p. 160, and Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 375). Cf. no. 913, post. 

[913] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (signed by Huger, Parker, and 
Tucker; endorsed as "Reed. 12th September"). 

2 The letter of Governor Pinckney, as also a letter of Richard Winn, superin- 
tendent of Indian affairs for the southern department, was laid before Congress Auk'. 4 
and referred to a committee who reported Aug. 14 (cf. the Journals, Aug. IX, 12). The 
extension of Winn's term as superintendent was on Aug. 4, 

• Cf. the committee report and the resolve adopted, Aug. 14. Concerning the 
transmission of the act see no. 912, ante. 

4 See the Journals, July 15; also no. 887, ante. 

8 See the Journals, July 3 ; also nos. 875-878, 880, 906, ante. 

9 See the Journals, June 24 ; also nos. 875, 882, ante. 



August, j/88 781 

Congress, it was determined not to accept it but on other specified Condi- 
tions which were deem'd more eligible. 7 

The Ratification of the new Constitution by the State of New Hamp- 
shire, making the 9th State, having been receiv'd, Congress immediately 
proceeded to the Consideration of the Measures recommended by the late 
general Convention as preparatory to the Meeting of the new Legislature. 
It is with regret that we find ourselves yet unable to communicate to your 
Excellency the final Result of the Deliberations on this Subject. After 
much time spent in Debate on the several Periods to be fixt and the place 
for the first Meeting of the new Congress, a Set of Resolutions were at 
length compleated, which separately obtain'd the Approbation of the House, 
but on taking the Question upon the whole it unfortunately pass'd in the 
negative, so that the Business remains still undetermined. In the Resolu- 
tions alluded to, the first Wednesday in January next was fixt for the 
Appointment of Electors, the first Wednesday in February for the Electors 
to assemble in the respective States and give their Votes for a President, 
the first Wednesday in March for the Meeting of the new Congress, and 
the City of New York for the place of Meeting. With respect to the 
periods just mention'd, we flatter ourselves there will be no farther Debate, 
and we are the more inclined to wish so, as we had much Difficulty in 
getting the first (which is the most important) so well adapted to the Con- 
venience of our State. It is indeed not entirely as we wou'd have had it, but 
it is much better than we had reason to expect, considering the Impossibility 
of avoiding Inconvenience to many of the States. Under this Arrangement 
our Legislature will be enabled to establish any Mode they may think proper 
for the Appointment of Electors, without the Necessity of either an ex- 
traordinary Meeting or a protracted Session. A Day somewhat later in 
the same Month wou'd probably have been more convenient, but that we 
were not able to obtain. The Difference of Opinion with regard to the 
place of Meeting, we apprehend, may still occasion some Trouble. On 
this Subject we have only to add, that since the Commencement of the 
proceedings thereon, Congress have receiv'd the Instruments of Ratifica- 
tion by the States of Virginia and New York. 8 

A Resolution of Congress appointing Mr. Joseph Martin Agent with 
the Cherokee Indians to act in Conjunction with the Superintendant for 
the southern Department, has been transmitted to your Excellency from 
the Secretary's Office. 9 

We observe with much Concern that the latest Accounts from the 
Governor of the western Territory express much Doubt of the friendly 
Disposition of the Indian Tribes there and of the Success of the intended 
Negociation with them. Such Irregularities have been committed, by 
some of them, that Congress has thought proper to direct preparations 
for repelling their Attacks, and to require the Cooperation of some of the 

7 See the Journals, July 15 ; also no. 887, ante. 

8 See the Journals, July 2, 8, 14, 28, 30, Aug. 4-7, 13 ; cf. nos. 886, 888-890, 896, 
899-902, 904, 906, 909, 910, ante, 914-918, post. 

9 Joseph Martin was appointed agent for the Cherokee nation on June 20 ; see 
also the Journals, June 19. On Aug. 20 he was appointed agent for the Chickasaw 
nation also. 



782 Continental Congress 

Militia of Virginia and Pennsylvania, if eventually it shou'd become ex- 
pedient to employ them." 

Measures having been taken by Congress to secure to the Officers and 
Soldiers of the late Army the Bounty Lands to which they are intitled, 11 it 
becomes our Duty to call the Attention of our Legislature to this Subject, 
that they may determine whether it is their Intention that the South Caro- 
lina Line to whom Bounty Lands have been granted by an Act of the State, 
shou'd also avail themselves of the Grants to be made by Authority of Con- 
gress. Shou'd this not be the Case, the Lands intended by Congress for the 
South Carolina Line, will become the Property of the State, so far as the 
Act of the State has had Operation, and it will be necessary that some Steps 
be taken to establish their Claim. Shou'd we receive instructions on this 
Subject, we shall immediately lay them before Congress, and endeavour to 
get the Business settled to the Satisfaction and Benefit of the State. Shou'd 
we not be instructed, we shall conclude that the Legislature is content that 
the Lands shou'd be granted to the Individuals agreeable to the Ordinance 
of Congress, which does not take into View the Provision made by our 
Law. 

As every Question which involves in it a Construction of any of tin- 
constitutional Power of Congress not clearly defined by the Articles of 
Confederation, is of Importance to the Legislatures of the several States, 
we find it incumbent on us to mention that in consequence of an Appli- 
cation from the Executive of Pennsylvania, Congress thought proper to 
order that a Detachment of Continental Troops in their March to the 
Westward shou'd so alter their Route as to pass into Luzerne County in 
that State and halt there for a limited time, with a View to assist, if it 
shou'd be necessary, in quieting the Commotions there. By a Letter since 
receiv'd, Congress are inform'd that this Measure is no longer deem d 
necessary. 12 

914. Paine Wingate to Timothy Pickering. 1 

New York Augt. 18, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I do not expect to tarry here more than one month from this 
time; .... I begin to be impatient to return home, having been absent 
already seven months, and I think that in a month more there will be 
nothing which will necessarily detain me hen 

We have lately had a very full congress consisting of 40 members from 
the 13 States a greater number it is said than has been for 12 years past 

10 See the Journals, Aug. II, 12, and no. 912, note 2, ante. Cf. Wingate to Pick- 
ering Aug. 18, in Life of Wingate, I. 243. 

11 The reference is doubtless to the act of Oct. 22, 1787. 

12 See nos. 897, 898, 908, ante. 

[914] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc., Pickering Papers, XIX. 140; Life of Wingate, I. 243. 

2 Cf. nos. 885, 886, 888, 897, 901, ante, 935, post. He makes a similar statement in 
a letter to Samuel Hodgdon Aug. 19 (Pickering Papers, XL. _">i ; Lift of W ingulf. I. 
245). A letter dated Aug. 30, with the salutation, "My dear friend", mentioning that 
he was about to return bone, was at one time in possession of W. R. Benjamin of 
New York. See no. 926, post. 



August, 1788 783 

There have been great disputes where the meeting of the first congress 
should be under the new constitution. The question is not determined and 
I view it as uncertain but suppose the probability is in favor of New 
York. Philadelphia and N. York are in Competition. There are many 
considerations of weight on both sides and I think nearly balanced. New 
Hampshire would have been content with Phila. and gave their ay for it, 
when that place was proposed, but when 7 States were not agreed in that by 
means of some Sothern States dissenting, we had no objection to N. York 
as being more convenient to the Eastern States, and accordingly voted for 
that likewise when proposed. 3 .... 

915. James Madison to James Madison, sr. 1 

N. York Aug. 18, 88. 
Hon'd Sir, 

I have reed, your favor of the 9th inclosing a paper from Mr. Triplet. 
The case is stated so imperfectly that it is impossible for me to take any 
steps for bringing it before Congress, if that should be proper. Mr. R. 
Morris I am told will be here soon, and I shall endeavour then to supply 
the omitted circumstances. In the meantime Mr. Triplet may either make 
out a fuller statement and forward it, or wait till he hears from. me on the 
subject. 2 .... 

.... Congress have not yet finally settled the arrangements for put- 
ting the new Government in operation. The place for its first meeting 
excites the difficulty. The Eastern States with N. York contend for this 
city. Most of the other States insist on a more central position. 3 .... 

3 Cf. nos. 904, 906, 907, 909, 910, 913, ante, 915-918, post. 
[915] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 250. 

2 Madison wrote to his father Sept. 6, " I have not yet seen Mr. Morris and 
have therefore not been able to do any thing in the affair of Mr. Triplets " ( Writings, 
V. 259)- 

3 Thomas B. Wait wrote to George Thatcher from Portland Aug. 21 : " Why, my 
friend, do you contend so warmly for New york, as the seat of Government? Do you, 
in this, act the part of a true Federal Philosopher! We should remember the question 
is not, what will be most convenient or best suit the interest of Newengland — But what 
does the interest of the Union require? How shall that be accommodated? But this last 
I suppose would be an odd question in Congress. There, it is the Southern interest or 
the Northern ; and every man of them ranges himself upon one side or the other, and 
contends with as much earnestness and warmth as if at an Olympic game. 

" Well, fight it out ; and I will have the pleasure of standing aloof, looking on and 
making nozv and then an observation on the squabble. One remark now, if you please — or 
rather a Query — Will not this clashing of interest produce a creation of neiv, and a divi- 
sion, and subdivision of the old, States? A diminution of State influence will follow, in 
exact proportion to which the power and Consequence of Congress will be increased. 
Curse on the prospect — it does not please me — so I will say no more about it" (Hist. 
Magazine, XVI. 350). 

James Sullivan, writing to Thatcher from Boston Aug. 22, was of a contrary opinion. 
" The General opinion is ", he wrote, " that you ought by no means to agree upon 
Philadelphia for the first meeting of the new arranged Congress, because .... if it 
meets there it will not be easily removed to a more Central and convenient place, but 
if it meets at New York a removing will be easily effected. . . . Why the members of 
the Southern States vote for Philadelphia unless they intend to fix Congress finally 
there I do not conceive." Ibid. 



784 Continental Congress 

916. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York Augst. 23d. 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have not yet decided on the arrangements for inaugu- 
rating the new Government. The place of its first meeting continues to 
divide the Northern and Southern members, though with a few exceptions 
to these general descriptions of the parties. The departure of Rho. Island, 
and the refusal of N. Carolina in consequence of the late event there to 
vote in the question, threatens a disagreeable issue to the business, there 
being now an apparent impossibility of obtaining seven States for any one 
place. 2 The three Eastern States and N. York, reinforced by S Carolina, 
and as yet by N. Jersey, give a plurality of votes in favor of this City. 
The advocates for a more central position however though less numerous, 
seemed very determined not to yield to what they call a shameful par- 
tiality to one extremity of the continent. It will be certainly of far more 
importance under the proposed than the present system that regard should 
be had to centrality whether we consider the number of members belonging 
to the Government, the diffusive manner in which they will be appointed, 
or, the increased resort of individuals having business with the Legisla- 
tive, Executive and Judiciary departments. 

If the Western Country be taken into view, as it certainly ought the rea- 
soning is still further corroborated. 8 There is good ground to believe that 
a very [jealous eye will be] 4 kept in that [quarter on in] attention [to 
it and particularly when] involving a [seeming advantage to the eastern 
States] which have been [rendered extremely suspicious] and [obnoxious 
by the Mississippi project]. There is [even good ground to believe that 
Spain is taking] advantage of [this disgust in Kentucky] and is [actually 
endeavoring] to [seduce them from the union holding out a darling object 
which will never be obtained by them as part of the union]. This is a 
[fact as certain as it is important but which I hint in strict confidence] 
and with [a request] that no suspicion may be excited of its being [known 
particularly thro the channel of me]. 5 I have this moment notice that I 
must send off my letter instantly, or lose the conveyance. I must conse- 
quently defer further communications till another opportunity 

917. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell. 1 

New York, August 23d, '88. 
Dear Sir, 

By letters from sundry correspondents, it appears that North Carolina 
has at length thrown herself out of the Union, but she happily is not alone ; 
the large, upright, and respectable State of Rhode Island is her associate. 

[916] l Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 253; Letters, I. 410; 
Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 26 (extract). 
2 See no. 896, ante, and no. 917, post. 

*Cf. the letter to Randolph Aug. 22 {Writings, V. 251, where the addressee is 
erroneously given as Pendleton). 

4 Bracketed words are written in cipher. 
8 See nos. 934. 945. Post, 
[gij]^ Life of Iredell, II. 236. 



August, 1788 785 

This circumstance, however, does not, I hope, render it necessary that the 
delegates from North Carolina should profess a particular affection for 
the delegates from Rhode Island. That State was some days ago repre- 
sented by a Mr. Arnold, who keeps a little tavern ten miles out of Provi- 
dence; and a Mr. Hazard, the illiterate " quondam " skipper of a small 
coasting vessel, who now, the very leader of Know Ye justices, officiates at 
county courts, and receives small fees, not as a lawyer, but agent for suitors. 
These two respectable delegates, with the innate desire of promoting a bad 
measure, lately voted on several questions respecting the organization of 
the new government, in order to fix it in New York, a corner of the 
Union; but before the final question was taken on the ordinance, they 
caused a member to move in Congress for a vote " that nothing which the 
delegates from Rhode Island or North Carolina had done, or might do 
in voting on the subject, should be construed as in any measure affecting 
the rights of their constituents." On the motion, the delegates from North 
Carolina moved that the word North Carolina should be struck out of the 
vote of absolution, and thereon called for the yeas and nays, to prove that 
we did not wish to have North Carolina associated in any vote with Rhode 
Island; that we did not wish for absolution, being conscious of having 
pursued our duty; that, with respect to the final vote which was to be 
taken on the ordinance, we proposed never to assist in such vote unless 
North Carolina should confederate, for we would not be guilty of par- 
ricide, by throwing our State out of the Union. On this the motion was 
withdrawn ; and the Rhode Island gentlemen missed the promised pleasure 
of doing wrong, and on the next morning they returned home. 2 

I wrote the Governor a letter concerning the conduct of some mem- 
bers, when the business referred to was first moved in Congress ; and, with 
my usual want of prudent dissimulation, I expressed an honest indignation 
by calling Spade a spade. The letter, it seems, has been read in Conven- 
tion ; and a correspondent, up the country, writes me that he fears it has 
hurt me greatly. As I did not consider that letter as official, and one that 
should be communicated to a public assembly, I took no copy of it, and 
do not know what it contained ; but as I am conscious that I never write, 
in the most careless mood, any thing but what I think, and as I am also 
conscious that, since I have been honored with a commission from the 
State, I have not in a single instance preferred my private interest to the 
benefit of the State; that I never have, through private indulgence, omitted 
a single opportunity of serving the State; and, conscious of no corrupt 
motive, my zeal on a late occasion to serve the State has not been abated at 
an hour when I had reason to suppose that my action would not be popular. 
Had I supported what I conceive to be a dishonest measure, in pursuit of 
popularity, I should, for the first time as a public man, have had occa- 
sion to condemn myself. Doing what I conceive to be the true dictate of 
honesty and patriotism, I mean to abide consequences. My friends know 
that I do not depend for support on public favor. 8 .... 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 7. The motion was by Hamilton. Cf. nos. 902, 904, 909, 
910, 913-916, ante, 918, 922, 926-930, 934-936, post. 

3 Cf. no. 920, post. 



786 Continental Congress 

918. James Madison to Georgf Washington. 1 

New York Augst. 24, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Unfortunately the disagreeable question 2 continues to be unde- 
cided, and is now in a state more perplexing than ever. By the last vote 
taken, the whole arrangement was thrown out, and the departure of 
Rho. Island and the refusal of N. Carolina to participate further in the 
business, has left eleven States only to take it up anew. In this number 
there are not Seven States for any place, and the disposition to relax 
usually happens, decreases with the progress of the contest. What and 
when the issue is to be is really more than I can foresee. It is truly morti- 
fying that the outset of the new Government should be immediately pre- 
ceded by such a display of locality, as portends the continuance of the 
evil which has dishonored the old and gives countenance to some of the 
most popular arguments which have been inculcated by the southern 
antifederalists . . . ." 

919. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of the Western 
Territory (Arthur St. Clair). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 
Sept. 1, 1788. 

Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to you herewith enclosed an act of the 30 
of June last and one of the 28 of august on the same subject also an Act 
passed the 29 of August by the United States in Congress assembled to- 
gether with instructions to you for carrying into effect certain measures 
which Congress have in view. 2 To save the time of copying the Acts of 
the 22 Oct. 1787 referred to in your instructions and that I may avail 
myself of the post which sets off to morrow from Philadelphia to Pitsburg 
I send you enclosed the printed journal of last year, and beg leave to inform 
you that one of the Acts of the 22 Oct. 1787 you will find in the Appen- 

[918] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings, V. 256; Letters, I. 412; 
Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 29. 

2 That is, of determining the seat of government. Discussing the New York 
circular letter (see no. 910, note 4, ante) Madison remarks : " I am not able to account for 
the concurrence of the federal part of the Convention in the circular address, on any 
other principle than the determination to purchase an immediate ratification in any form 
or at any price, rather than disappoint this City of a chance for the new Congress. This 
solution is sufficiently justified by the eagerness displayed on this point, and the evident 
disposition to risk and sacrifice everything to it." Hamilton wrote to Governor Living- 
ston of New Jersey Aug. 20. "We are informed here, that there is some probability 
that your Legislature will instruct your delegates to vote for Philadelphia as the ; 
of the meeting of the first Congress under the new Government "*. and armies that it b 
much to the interest of New Jersey that New York rather than Philadelphia should be 
chosen. Hamilton's Works (ed. J. C. Hamilton). I. 471. Cf. no. 929, fast. 

8 In the remainder of the letter Madison discusses the probable results of 
fixing upon New York as the seat of the government, particularly as regards its effect 
on the western country. 

[9i9l ' Library of CongKM. Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 162. 

- The act of Aug. 28 was a modification of the act of June 20, which waa the 
outcome of a memorial of George Morgan. The act of Aug. 29 concerned the inhabi- 
tants of Post St. Vincents ( Yinccnnes), etc. 



September, 1788 787 

dix page 27, 28. As you will doubtless be anxious to know the proceed- 
ings of Congress I have also enclosed a copy of the journal of the present 
year as far as printed. 

920. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York, 1st Sept., 1788. 
Sir, 

The Delegates to represent the State in Congress from the first Monday 
in November next were chosen, I think, in the following order : White, 
Ashe, Hawkins, Stokes, Williamson, McDowell. The first three men- 
tioned have the option by a general order of serving first, but I presume 
that Mr. Ashe has resigned and it is said not to be probable that Mr. 
Stokes will come to Congress on the next Winter. I am not informed 
whether Mr. Hawkins proposed to come, but you are probably informed 
by this time whether any three of the four Gentlemen first named pro- 
pose to attend in Congress from the first of November next. If they have 
not given you notice of intention, it will become my duty to attend and 
being determined punctually to perform every service that I owe the State, 
I propose to hold myself in readiness to attend in Congress Accordingly. 
You will, therefore, be pleased to issue Warrants in my favor for the next 
six months' salary as Delegate in Congress. If you are so good as put the 
Warrants into the hands of Mr. Collins, he will negotiate them for my 
accounts. 

By looking over the public journal, you will observe that many things 
continue to engross the Attention of Congress which are of considerable 
National Importance. 

Questions which respect old claims against the public and the calling 
delinquents to account and lowering the National Debts. Whether North 
Carolina shall be confederated or not, she is equally interested with other 
States in those measures. With whatever fidelity or Abilities I may serve 
the State the Journals will show that I do not eat the Bread of Idleness. 

921. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Samuel Johnston). 1 

Office of Sec'y of Congress, 

Sept. 4, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to your excell'y herewith enclosed a proc- 
lamation issued by the United States in Congress assembled and sundry 
resolutions passed by them touching intrusions upon the hunting grounds 
reserved by the treaty to the Cherokees and the unprovoked outrages 
committed upon the said Indians; I trust your excellency will, as far as 
depends on you, use your influence that the proclamation and measures 

[920] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 494. 
[921] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 163; N. C. State Recs., 
XXI. 495- 



788 Continental Congress 

taken by Congress may have the intended effect to restore peace and har- 
mony between the citizens of the United States and the Cherokees and to 
prevent any further invasions of their respective rights and possessions. 2 
I also enclose a Copy of the papers which have been transmitted to 
Congress respecting Hostilities alleged to have been committed by John 
Sevier and others into which you are earnestly requested to cause enquiry 
to be made and if found true to take measures to have the perpetrators 
thereof apprehended and punished. 8 

922. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

New York September 5th 1788. 
Sir, 

I have to acknowledge the honor of your Excellencys obliging favor of 
the 25th Ultimo, and it is with real regret that I am again constrained to 
inform you that the ordinance for the organization of the new govern- 
ment remains incomplete ; owing to the absence of the delegates of Rhode 
Island and to a want of that spirit of accommodation which has hitherto 
confessedly marked the conduct of New Hampshire on this subject. The 
ordinance has once been completed in all its parts and when the final ques- 
tion was about to be taken the delegates of Rhode Island left the Hall and 
the city. 

The time for choosing electors, of their meeting and the assembling of 
the new Congress was fixed at later periods than could meet the wishes 
of the Eastern States in order to accommodate the southern. 

The question on the place for commencing proceedings under the new 
Government was first taken for Philadelphia when the Delegates of New 
Hampshire and Connecticut (Conceiving to be the wish of the Southern 
States, and being actuated by that spirit of accommodation and concilia- 
tion which it is their ardent desire to see operating in the general govern- 
ment of the States, and on which our national prosperity so greatly de- 
pends) gave their assent. But to their surprize the Question was lost by 
the negative of South Carolina and the division of Delaware and Georgia 
among the Southern States. The Question was afterwards taken for New 
York in a full representation of all the States and carried, south Carolina 
voting in the affirmative and Georgia divided, but as the final question did 
not obtain, owing to the circumstances above related, an attempt has since 
been made to send out the ordinance without inserting the place leaving it 
for the new Congress to assemble when the old Congress should be sitting 
at the time, but without success. Thus has the business past on from day 
to day waiting the return of the Delegates from Rhode Island. 2 

2 Following the copy of the letter to this point Thomson noted : " To Govr. of 
Virginia and So Carolina. ' Preceding the next paragraph he noted : " for the govr. of 
North Carolina add ". 

■The proclamation is in the Journals, Sept. 1. For its antecedents see ibid., 
July 8, 9, 18, 30. Cf. nos. 924, 925. 944, post. For an account of this episode see Williams, 
Lost State of Franklin, ch. XXVI I. 
[_922yN. H. State Papers. XXI. 858. 

•See the Journals. July 28, 30, Aug. 4-7, 13, 26, Sept. 2-4; also nos. 809, 902, 
903, 904, 907, 909, 913-918, ante. See further nos. 926-930, 934-936, post. Gilman says 



September, 1788 789 

As it seems to be the general opinion that New York or Philadelphia 
must be the place for the first Congress to assemble in and as seven States 
and an half are in favor of the former and half the delegation of Dela- 
ware, in addition pointedly opposed to the latter it appears to be the effect 
of unwarrantable obstinacy that the minority will not concede the point 
in question without further delay. 

I hope however that we shall be able to finish this business within a few 
days when I shall do myself the honor to give your Excellency the earliest 
notice. 

923. Alexander Hamilton to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New York Sepr. 6, 1788. 
Sir, 

I am a member of a Committee to whom the Baron De Steuben's appli- 
cation to Congress, founded upon a certain statement supported among 
other testimonials by a certificate from you, has been referred. Among 
the papers committed to us, is the copy of a written report made by the 
Committee appointed to confer with the Baron at Yorktown. As this re- 
port is of a nature to create difficulties in the case, I have thought proper 
to enclose it for your perusal, and shall be obliged to you for any explana- 
tions which may serve to throw further light on the subject. 2 

924. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 6th Septr. 1788. 
Sir, 

Inclosed is a Proclamation with sundry Resolves of Congress respect- 
ing the Indians on our Frontier. You will receive from the Secretary of 
Congress the Copy of Papers that have been received from different 
Quarters respecting the Barbarities that have been practised against the 
Cherokees by People who do not profess themselves amenable to the Laws 
of our State. You know that a treaty is now pending with the Southern 
Indians and Georgia, that has long been suffering under the knife, begins 
to hope for a general peace. In such a Conjuncture the Conduct of Mr. 

that the Rhode Island delegates had left the city, but Peleg Arnold was still in New 
York, or had returned to the city, Sept. 18. On that day he wrote to Welcome Arnold: 
" I have inclosed for your information the Journal of Congress from July 22 to Augt. 18 
together with the resolution of Septr. 13. whenever anything further presents I shall 
Communicate and wish a line of information from you." N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., 
no. 559- 

[923] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., XII. 177. 

2 See the Journals, June 4, July 7, 9, 25, Aug. 25. The committee of which 
Hamilton was a member (appointed Aug. 25 on Hamilton's motion) made a report Sept. 
11. Cf. the Journals, Oct. 25, 1787; also nos. 286, 539, 754, 856, ante. A letter from 
Steuben to Hamilton Sept. 5 on the subject of his memorial is in Hamilton's Works 
(ed. Hamilton), I. 475. A letter from Steuben to Thomas McKean, Aug. 27, asking 
McKean to put together his recollections of what passed in committee relative to 
Steuben's claim, is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, II. 91. 

[924] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers (marked "Public") ; N. C. State Recs., 
XXI. 497- 



790 Continental Congress 

Sevier was not only fatal to their Hopes, but perfectly alarming to the 
States of South Carolina and Virginia; each of them might suffer by a 
general Indian War and the Delegates from those States earnestly required 
that preventative Measures should be taken. While this Question wil 
agitated in Congress you may believe that the Delegates from North 
Carolina found themselves in a very delicate and critical Situation. The 
Treaty of Hopewell had given much Offence to many good Citizens in our 
State, because it was supposed to have Surrendered Lands to the Indians 
which they had formerly sold or ceded to the State ; but this Treaty was 
now to be quoted and it had already been entered on the Journals of Con- 
gress April the 17th 1786, which is considered as a Ratification. The 
Delegates were fully persuaded that a great Majority of the People who 
inhabit the Counties of Washington, Lincoln, Green and Hawkins are 
peaceable and good Citizens and they knew that the Inhabitants of David- 
son and Sumner Counties had ever claimed and been entitled to the Pro- 
tection of the State. We resolved that Nothing in our Power should be 
unattempted to preserve Peace in those several Counties and to save the 
unoffending Women and Children from the Hand of the Savage. This 
could not be done without taking Notice of the Treaty, but the Deleg 
attempted such Amendments as seem to render the Treaty very harmless. 
After causing several Things to be struck out, which had been reported 
by the Committee, we moved the final Proviso which is inserted in the 
Proclamation. This Proviso, as we conceive, leaves, by implication, every 
Claim of the State in its useful Force. Whenever the present Settlements 
shall have acquired sufficient Strength and the State shall be desirous to 
extend her Settlements, she has only to buy a farther Claim of Soil from 
the Indians or shew that she has antient Claims of a greater Extent. The 
Treaty of Hopewell will never operate against the Territorial Claims of 
the State whenever she thinks fit to make them. The Proviso respecting 
the Settlers near the Fork of the french broad is professedly made a nega- 
tive one. The Delegates could not agree to confirm them in their Pos- 
sessions because we have been told that they have no Titles from the State ; 
we only proposed, for the Information of the Indians, that they shall 
not be removed by the Operation of the Treaty. 

On the whole our Object and Desire in the first Place was to save the 
State if possible from the heavy Expences of an Indian War and to pre- 
serve the weak and scattered Settlers in our Western Counties in Safety 
and Peace ; on the other Hand we wished not to give additional Force to 
any Act by which the Rights of the State might be impaired. In such 
apparent opposition of Interests it may be impossible to give universal 
Satisfaction and it may at the same Time be criminal to refuse an Opinion. 
In whatever Light the Subject may be viewed by our Constitutents the 
Delegates have the Satisfaction to be conscious that their Object was to 
save the Lives of many innocent and helpless fellow Citizens. 2 

2 See the Journals. Sept. 1 ; also no. 921, ante, and no. 925, post. 



September, 1/88 791 

925. The South Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
South Carolina (Thomas Pinckney). 1 

New York Sept. 6th, 1788. 
Sir, 

We have had the Honor of receiving your Excellency's Letter of the 
26. Augt. and laid before Congress the Papers therewith transmitted re- 
specting the Outrages committed on a Part of the Cherokee Nation. In- 
formation of a similar Nature having been before receiv'd, the Subject 
had already engaged the Attention of Congress, the Resolutions whereon 
we now enclose, hoping that they will prove satisfactory and effectual. 2 

Your Excellency will receive from the Secretary a Copy of a Requisi- 
tion of Congress on the States for Supplies for the Year 1788. 3 The 
Amount of the whole Sum being 1,686,541 12/90 Dollars, the Quota of 
South Carolina stands at 108,160 54/90 Dollars receivable in Indents for 
Interest. This Sum added to the Quotas of former Years for Indents 
makes a large Amount, on which we lament to observe that no Payments 
have yet been made. It is to be remark'd that Congress has required no 
Specie Payments in Addition to the Arrears due on former Requisitions. 
But it is not to be understood that those Arrears, if fully paid up, wou'd 
be adequate to the Exigencies of Government. The grievous Experience 
of Disappointment in Receipts upon Requisitions from the States render'd 
it indispensable to endeavour to obtain those Supplies by Loan, which were 
necessary to the very Existence of the Union, and cou'd not be obtain'd 
from a more eligible Source. It is this Necessity which has compell'd Con- 
gress to adopt the Measure of negociating a farther Loan in Holland, as 
mention'd in the Requisition. But it is proper that the several States 
shou'd be apprized that this System of borrowing under extream Dis- 
advantages, has not merely the Effect of increasing our foreign Debt in 
the Ratio of Interest upon Interest, but is attended with a farther Accu- 
mulation arising from the very unfavorable Terms on which every Loan 
must be obtain'd, in the present Circumstances of the United States. 

The Board of Treasury having, in a Letter of 16th, Oct. 1786, rep- 
resented to Congress that, for reasons therein assign'd, they judg'd it im- 
proper and unsafe to permit the giving of Indents for Interest on Con- 
tinental Loan Office Certificates issued in our State until the Accounts of 
that Office are render'd, it is our Duty to request the Attention of the 
Legislature to the Letter and other Papers on the Subject, Transcripts of 
which were sent about the Month of October last to your Excellency. We 
doubt not but that the Gentlemen who were in that Office will be able not 
only to clear up every Doubt of the Board of Treasury, but also to cancel 
what we suspect to be an Error in their Statement, arising from want of 
Information and a false Presumption in Consequence thereof; whereby 

[92s] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C. (in the writing of Thomas Tudor 
Tucker, and signed by Huger, Parker, and Tucker). 

2 See nos. 921, 924, ante. 

3 The requisition was adopted Aug. 20. See also the Journals, June 9, July 9, 
Aug. 4, 12. Secretary Thomson transmitted the requisition to the several states on 
Aug. 25 (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 162; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 493). 



792 Continental Congress 

our State stands debited with the large Sum of 450,411 Dollars more 
than we apprehend to be justly due. The Accounts of the Commissioners 
of the Loan Office will readily ascertain whether or not our Conjecture 
is well founded. 4 

Congress has lately receiv'd from the States General of the United 
Netherlands a Letter notifying the Recall of Mr. Van Berckel their Min- 
ister Plenipotentiary to the United States. 5 

We are sorry to inform your Excellency that no Act is yet pass'd by 
Congress respecting the Arrangements for the new Constitution, every 
Plan that has hitherto been brought forward for the Accomplishment of 
that Business having fail'd to receive the final Approbation of the House. 
We, however, cannot but flatter ourselves that before the Meeting of our 
Legislature we shall be enabled to communicate to your Excellency some 
definitive Measure on that Subject. 8 

926. Paine Wingate to the President of New Hampshire 
(John Langdon). 1 

New York Sept. nth 1788. 
Sir, 

I acknowledge the honor of receiving your Excellency's favour of the 
1 ith Ult. also yours of the second Instant to Mr. Gilman and to me enclos- 
ing our Commissions for the ensuing year. I thank your Excellency for 
your obliging attention in sending on our Commissions and Mr. Gilman^ 
acknowledgments at his desire, are joined with mine ; but I hope and ex- 
pect not to have occasion for my commission. I think it likely that the 
States will not be generally represented in Congress after November next, 
and unless any emergency should make it necessary for the delegates to 
attend I conceive it will be judged most expedient to let what little busi- 
ness may be left, pass over to the new Government. 

Your Excellency observes that you do not recollect any business of the 
State that will require my attendance after the general business is com- 
pleted, and that I must use my own judgment in determining when to 
return home. My wish is to return as soon as may be without neglect 
of my trust, and as several of the Delegates from other States are already 
gone and others will probably soon follow, and as there does not apjxar 
to be any matters of great consequence to be decided before the end of 
the present year except such as may be dispatched in a few days I shall con- 
formably to my inclination, and I believe the interest of the State leave 

* See the Journals, Oct. 19, 1786 (p. 891) ; also Feb. 12, 1787 (Report of the 15' 
of Treasury dated Oct. 27, 1786). 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 28, Sept. 3, and no. 926, post; also Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 
1783-1789, III. 453-457- 

• Madison wrote to his father Sept. 6 : " Congress have not yet settled the 
place for the meeting of the new Gov't. It is most probable that the advocates for 
N. York who form at present the greater number, will prevail. In that case, altho' I 
think it a very unreasonable thing for the South'n and Western parts of the Union, the 
best face must be put on it" (Writings, V. 259). See nos. 918, 922, ante, 926-030, Post. 

[ga6]i N. H. State Papers, XXI. 8so: Lite of Wingate, I. 249. 



September, 1788 793 

this city for home the last of next week, unless something unexpected 
should prevent. 2 .... 

My Colleague has informed your Excellency of the reasons which ac- 
tuated our conduct in the late endeavours to organize the new Govern- 
ment. 3 They were such as we supposed ought to influence us, and would 
vindicate us from any blame in the past delay. 

Nothing has been further attempted in this business since Mr. Gilman 
wrote, but we have reason to think it will be completed in a few days. I 
do not imagine that the delay as yet has put off the time when the opera- 
tion of the new Government would commence, or has been injurious 
further than a waste of time in Congress, and keeping the publick in a 
painful suspense, and some little irritation of the parties. These it is true, 
though I think they will be attended with no very disagreeable consequences, 
are evils which I wish had been avoided, and that the Government had 
commenced with a perfect harmony of sentiment. Had all parties been 
as disinterested as the delegates of New Hampshire in this affair it might 
have been the case but the rivalship of Philadelphia and New York would 
not admit of it. 

The Minister of the United Netherlands has lately been recalled and 
taken leave of Congress. The United States of America have upon this 
occasion received fresh assurances of friendship from the States General, 
but are not informed of the reasons of the recall of the minister. It is 
easily conjectured however that it was because he was not in the interest 
of the Prince of Orange. 4 

2 Cf. nos. 893, 899, 901, 914, ante. The culmination (Saturday, Sept. 13) of the 
controversy over where the new Congress should meet released Wingate sooner than 
he had expected. Postmaster General Hazard wrote to Jeremy Belknap Sept. 13 : 
" Mr. Wingate is to set out tomorrow afternoon for Philadelphia, to return next Thurs- 
day, and the next day start for New Hampshire. He has seen a good deal of the manoeuver- 
ing, and has gone so far as to tell me that he has been sounded about the Postmaster 
General ; but, as he was not more communicative, delicacy prevented my being particular 
in my enquiries, but you may" (Life of Wingate, I. 253). Belknap replied, writing 
from Boston Sept. 23: "I have this evening had an half hour's conference with Mr. 
Wingate. The result is, there has been an attempt in Congress to get you displaced, and 
W. says he prevented it. His colleague was for it, and, had he agreed with him, there 
would have been seven states on that side. The states against you are Massachusetts, 
Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware and Georgia, and I am uncertain whether Rhode 
Island or North Carolina ; but it originated in Connecticut and the person pitched upon 
for your successor is Jonathan Trumbull" (ibid.). Belknap understood that one criticism 
of Hazard was that he gave preference to post riders as against stages for carrying the 
mails. Replying to Belknap, Oct. 2, Hazard wrote : " I never heard, before you informed 
me, that my removal had been seriously agitated in Congress ; or rather that any vote 
had been taken about it. North Carolina must have been the sixth State. A friend has 
intimated to me that a member from that state wanted the office for himself. I am 
pretty confident that Rhode Island would have been in my favor." Writing to Belknap 
again Oct. 14, Hazard stated that he was well informed no vote had been taken for his 
removal, but that his opponents had probably been " calculating their chance of success " 
(ibid., p. 254). Cf. no. 797, note 6, ante. 

Wingate's account for attendance, dated at Stratham Nov. 3 (Life of Wingate, I. 255), 
is in part as follows : 
" The State of New Hampshire to Paine Wingate Dr. 

For his services as a Delegate in Congress, from Janr. 30th to Sept. 

26th, 1788, inclusively, being 241 days at 30 sh. pr. day £361. 10. 0." 

3 See no. 922, ante. 

4 See no. 925, note 3, ante. 



794 Continental Congress 

Congress has this week elected General Irvine of Pennsylvania, and the 
Honorable John T. Gilman Esq. of New Hampshire Commissioners for 
settling the accounts of the several States agreeably to the ordinance of 
May 7th 1787. The third who is to be from the southward is not yet 
chosen. 5 We have no late European news, and I have nothing else mate- 
rial to write. 



927. Nicholas Gilman to the President of New Hampshire 

(John Langdon). 1 

New York September 13th, 1788. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honor to transmit herewith, an ordinance of Congress 
for putting in motion the new System of g ov e r nment : and have the pleas- 
ure to observe, that, although a difference in sentiment respecting the 
place of meeting has been productive of animated debates and has occa- 
sioned some delay yet it finally passed without a dissentient voice or the 
least apparent animosity. 2 This day has also completed the election of the 
Commissioners for settling the national accounts agreeably to the ordi- 
nance of May 1787. The Board consist of General William Irvine of 
Pennsylvania, Mr. J. T. Gilman of New Hampshire and Mr. Abraham 
Baldwin of Georgia 

928. Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 

New York 13th, Sept. 88. 
My dear General, 

At length the new govt, has received the last act necessary to its e\ 
tence. This day Congress passed the requisite previous arrangements. The 
first Wednesday in January the ratifying states are to appoint electors, on 
the first Wednesday in February the president is to be chosen, and the first 
Wednesday in March is the time, and this city the place for commencing 
proceedings. 

Some delay has attended this business from a difference in opinion re- 
specting the place of meeting, but this delay has not in the least affected the 

8 On Sept. 4 Abraham Clark offered a motion that the number of commissioners 
be increased to four, but the motion was negatived, and the election of the three, as provided 
for by the ordinance, was set for Sept. 9. Irvine and Gilman were chosen on the 9th, and 
Abraham Baldwin was elected as the third commissioner Sept. 13. On the sami 
Secretary Thomson notified the three commissioners of their appointment (Secretary's 
Letter-Book, p. 165). Concerning this board see nos. 616, 637, 647. 656, 716, 759, 776, 778, 
ant.-. See further the Journals, Oct. 2, 10, and nos. 944, 947, 950, 957, 963, 971, post. 

[927]iN. H. State Papers, XXI. 861. 

2 See the Journals. Sept. 13; cf. nos. 917 (note 2), 918, 922, 926, ante, 928-930, 
934-9361 post. Secretary Thomson transmitted the act to the several it&tej Sept i.t. 
with a circular letter (Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 166; Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 
2965; N. C. State AVer. XXI. 409; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution. V. 4S; and else- 
where). Gilman also transmitted two resolutions of the convention of North Carolina 
Aug. 2. 

[928]' Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 48. 



September, 1788 795 

sooner or later operation of the constitution. The southern gentlemen 
did not accord in the place of temporary residence, from a discordance in 
sentiment, of its effect on the establishment of the permanent seat of govt. 
Some considered this city, others a more southern position, as the most 
favorable theatre to negotiate the determination of the ten-miles square. 
Many plausible and some cogent reasons are adducible in support of either 
opinion and time only can shew which is founded in propriety. 2 .... 



929. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

New York Sepr. 14, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

The delay in providing for the commencement of the Government was 
terminated yesterday, by an acquiescence of the minor number in the per- 
severing demands of the major. The time for choosing the electors 
is the first Wednesday in Jan. and for choosing the President the first 
Wednesday in Feby. The meeting of the Govt is to be the first Wednesday 
in March, and in the City of New York. The times were adjusted to the 
meetings of the State Legislatures. 2 The place was the result of the di- 
lemma to which the opponents of N. York were reduced of yielding to its 
advocates or strangling the Government in its birth. The necessity of 
yielding, and the impropriety of further delay, has been for" some time 
obvious to me, but others did not view the matter in the same light. 3 Mary- 
land and Delaware were absolutely inflexible. It has indeed been too 
apparent that local and state considerations have very improperly pre- 
dominated in this question, and that something more is aimed at than 
merely the first Session of the Govt, at this place. Every circumstance 
has shewn that the policy is to keep Congress here till a permanent seat be 
chosen, and to obtain a permanent seat at farthest not beyond the Susque- 
hannah. N. Jersey, by its Legislature as well as its Delegation in Con- 
gress, has clearly discovered her view to be a temporary appointment of 
New York as affording the best chance of a permanent establishment at 
Trenton. 4 I have been made so fully sensible of these views in the course 

2 Cf. no. 927, note 2, ante. Continuing, Lee communicates to Washington " some 
of the reflexions which the hour has produced ". Washington's reply, Sept. 22, is in 
Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 73; Writings (ed. Ford), XI. 323, (ed. Sparks), 
IX. 428. 

[929] l Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Letters, I. 416; Doc. Hist, of the 
Constitution, V. 51. 

2 Cf. nos. 927, 928, ante. 

3 Tench Coxe wrote to Madison from Philadelphia Sept. 10 : " The question 
about the place of first meeting is likely to issue I find in favor of New York. I con- 
fess I wish Philada. may not any longer procrastinate the issuing of the ordinance. Tis 
much to be lamented that so much time has been spent, and that the most favorable 
and proper position has not been taken, but tis too serious a matter to hazard the Gov- 
ernment by Delay for any such Consideration." Library of Congress, Madison Papers ; 
Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, V. 47. 

4 See no. 918, note 2, ante. In his letter to Randolph the same day (Writings, 
V. 260, but with the addressee as Edmund Pendleton) Madison gives much the same 
narrative of proceedings, with a few additional details. For instance, he says : " Those 

57 



796 Continental Congress 

of the business, as well as of the impropriety of so excentric a position as 
N. York, that I would have finally concurred in any place more Southward 
to which the Eastern States wd. have acceded, and, previous to the defini- 
tive vote, a motion was made tendering a blank for that purpose. At any 
place South of the Delaware, the Susquehannah at least would have been 
secured, and a hope given to the Potowmac. As the case is I conceive the 
Susquehannah to be the utmost to be hoped for, with no small danger of 
being stopped at the Delaware. Besides this consequence, the decision will 
I fear be regarded as at once a proof of the preponderancy of the Eastern 
strength, and of a disposition to make an unfair use of it. And it cannot 
but happen that the question will be entailed on the New Governmt. which 
will have enough of other causes of agitation in its Councils 

930. Edward Carrington to James Monroe. 1 

New York Sept. 15th, 1788. 
My Dear Friend, 

. . . . 2 You have doubtless been anxcious to see the act for giving the 
Govt, effect, and must have heard something of the cause of the suspen- 
sion. The southern States thought it incumbent on them to get the meeting 
more central than N. York, this certainly was a point of great importance, 
for if it is effected early in the meeting of the New Govt, a warm contest 
must first be felt, which will destroy the harmony of the Body for per- 
haps the remainder of the session, if such removal should not be effected, 
there will nevertheless have been a warm contest, with the additional mis- 
chief of all the great and permanent arrangements being made in the 
Centre of that part of the Union against which great jealousies already 
exist in the southern States, and when it is considered with what facility 
majorities may be made and preserved by calling in absent Members etc. 
this jealousy must be still agravated. upon this question we were deserted 
by south Carolina and half of Georgia, and our old Friend Harry,* took 
the same side as he did in the Mississippi business, you must have seen 
the papers in which most of the votes which passed in the early part of 
this affair have been published. We last friday determined to yield to the 
Majority for N. York rather than hazard the consequences of a longer 
suspension. 4 .... 

who had opposed N. York along with me could not overcome their repugnance so soon. 
Maryland went away before the question was decided in a temper which I believe would 
never have yielded. Delaware was equally inflexible." Cf. no. 933, post. The letter also 
includes a discussion of the probable consequences of fixing upon New York as the place 
for beginning the new government. 

[930] x Library of Congress, Monroe Papers, VII. 878; Doc. Hist, of the Constitution, 
V. 54 (part). * 

2 The principal portion of this letter (the part printed in Documentary History 
of the Constitution) is a discussion of the Constitution and mainly devoted to combating 
Monroe's objections. 

8 Henry Lee. 

« Cf. nos. 922, 927, 929, ante, 934, 935, post. 



September, 1788 797 

931. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

Sepr. 17th. 1788. 
Sir, 

The several attempts already too successfully made, and particularly a 
recent one, countenanced and promoted by the british Governor of New 
Providence to pour into the United States, convicts, have induced Con- 
gress to pass the recommendation, of which I have the honor to transmit 
to your Excellency a copy herewith enclosed. I trust this recommendation 
will command the earliest attention of Your Legislature, and that they 
will take effectual measures to vindicate the honor of their Country and 
put a stop to such nefarious attempts. 2 

932. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 17th Septr. 1788. 
Sir, 

In pursuance of the Instructions you was pleased to forward on the 
29th of June, 2 the Delegates on the 14th of July moved that Congress 
should resolve as follows, . . . . s 

This Motion was referred to the Secretary for foreign Affairs to 
report, but the Report of that Officer, which was not made before the 3rd 
instant, not proving satisfactory, the Delegates moved that it should be 
referred to a Committee who gave all possible Dispatch to the Business. 
Yesterday Congress took up the Report of the Committee and agreed to 
sundry Resolutions * which, as in all such Cases respecting Treaties, are 
entered on the private Journal, but the Delegates are allowed, for the In- 
formation of the Legislature, to take a Copy of the two first. The Entry 
is in the following Terms 5 

The Delegates from Virginia are informed that the general assembly of 
that State have agreed to instruct them on the above Subject, but by some 

[93i] 1 N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 5990; Mass. Arch., Senate Files, 
no. 819 ; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 166 ; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 
Soo. 

2 See the reports of the secretary for foreign affairs, in the Journals Sept. 3 and 
16. These reports, together with the affidavit of Leonard White Outerbridge, on which 
the action of Congress was based, are in Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 130-133. 
Vice-President Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania transmitted the letter and the act to the 
general assembly Sept. 22 {Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 398). See no. 946, post. 

[932] * Haverford College, Roberts Coll., p. 736. 

2 N. C. State Recs., XXI. 480. 

3 The motion of the North Carolina delegates July 14 is here quoted. 

4 The report of the secretary for foreign affairs, dated Sept. 2, was laid before 
Congress Sept. 3, and on the following day Sept. 8 was assigned for its consideration. 
On that day the secretary's report was referred to a committee, who rendered their 
report Sept. 15, and action was taken Sept. 16. 

5 Williamson here quotes the introductory paragraph of the committee's report, 
together with the first two of the three resolutions forming the body of the report. The 
third resolution, as explained in an editorial note in the Journals, was considered as 
" private instruction " and the delegates were therefore restrained from transmitting it. 
Cf. nos. 934, 937, 938, 945, post. It was not until Oct. 17 that Jay notified Gardoqui of 
the decision of Congress (Dipl. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, III. 278). 



798 Continental Congress 

Accident a Copy of the Instructions have not hitherto been forwarded and 
the Delegates from North Carolina could not postpone the Question wait- 
ing for such assistance lest the Representation of the States should not be 
sufficiently numerous in Congress. 

Being at Liberty to speak with some freedom respecting certain late 
Negotiations, It is true that Authority had been given by Congress to 
our Minister for foreign Affairs to negotiate a Treaty with the Minister 
of Spain. It is also true that the Delegates from several States in the 
Union seemed to think that the Navigation of the Mississippi might be 
profitably and prudently bartered with Spain for certain commercial Privi- 
leges for a given number of Years, but the Delegates from those very 
States seem now to be perfectly convinced that the Measure would not be 
prudent nor practicable. 6 The Subject is now much better understood and 
the late Increase of Settlers in the western Country has been so rapid 
beyond all their Ideas of probability that they are now fully agreed with us 
that Nature and the fitness of Things must have their due Operation. 
All the States referred to voted with us on the late Question and at present 
there is no Power remaining in the Hands of any Minister for making 
any Treaty by which the Navigation of the Mississippi can possibly be 
affected. The Delegates on this Occasion have not been wanting in zeal 
to serve their Constituents and hope that their conduct will meet with 
your Approbation. 

933. Benjamin Contee to Christopher Richmond. 1 

Nottingham[?] Sept. 20th 88. 
D'rS'r, 

I very lately reed, a Letter from Major Ross acquainting me that the 
state of his family obliged him to return to Maryland and that it was 
necessary that Col. Howard and my self shd. go up to supply the place of 
himself and Mr. Seney who was likewise returning to Maryland — they 
have allready left N. York. 2 as I wish to get up as soon as I can and it is 
out of the road to come by Anna. 8 I have taken the Liberty to send you 
the ac't inclosed and beg you'll receive for me and transmit the Bala, by 
the Gent, who waits on you with this. 

Mrs. Contee is here with me. I wished very much to take her to X 
York, but as the weather at the Time I shall probably return will be cold, 
her friends at Blenheim think it imprudent, all things considered, she shd 
go. I am now setting out for Blenheim to leave her with her Grandmama. 

Major Ross informs me there is some hope of a removal farther south 
than N. York, and that the prospect of R Island's voting on the question 
is now relinquished by the advocates for N. York. 4 

6 Cf. no. 934, post. See also Madison's speech in the Virginia convention. June 
1.?, in Writings, V. 178. For prior discussions of the question see nos. 408, 413, 425, 443. 
457. 459. 463-467. 470-482, 492-499. 508, 590. 614, 636, 647, 697, 860, ante. 

[933] 1 ^ l( ' H' s ' Soc^ Misc., 1788 (addressed. "Christopher Richmond esqr Auditor 
Genl. Annapolis hon'd hy Mr. Cooksey"). 

2 See no. 929, note 4, ante. 

• Annapolis. 

* Cf. nos. 904, 909, 910, 913-918, 922. 926-930, ante. 



September, 1788 799 

934. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, Sepr. 21, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Being informed of a circuitous opportunity to France I make use of it 
to forward the inclosures. By one of them you will find that Congress 
have been at length brought into the true policy which is demanded by 
the situation of the Western Country. An additional resolution on the 
[secret journal] 2 puts an [end to all negociation with Spain], referring 
the subject of a [treaty after this] assertion [of right to the Mississippi, 
to the new government.] 3 The communication in my last will have shewn 
you the [crisis of things] in that [quarter a crisis] however not particu- 
larly [known to Congress], and will be a [key to] some of the [Ken- 
tucke toasts in the Virginia Gazette] . 4 . . . . 

You will find also by one of the papers inclosed that the arrangements 
have been compleated for bringing the new Government into action. The 
dispute concerning the place of its meeting was the principal cause of 
delay, the Eastern States with N. Jersey and S. Carolina being attached to 
N. York, and the others strenuous for a more central position. Phila- 
delphia, Wilmington, Lancaster and Baltimore were successively tendered 
without effect by the latter, before they finally yielded to the superiority 
of members in favor of this City. 5 .... 

In consequence of your letter to Mr. Jay on the subject of " outfit " etc., 6 
I had a conference with him, and he agreed to suggest the matter to Con- 

[934] x Library of Congress. Madison Papers; Writings, V. 262; Letters I. 417; Doc. 
Hist, of the Constitution, V. 71. 

2 Bracketed words are written in cipher. 

3 Cf. no. 932, ante, and nos. 937, 938, post. 

* See no. 916, ante. The Kentucky toasts are also found in the Virginia Indepen- 
dent Chronicle of September 3, in an " extract of a letter from Kentucke, dated Fayette, 
August 4, 1788, to a gentleman in this city [Richmond] ". The writer gives an account 
of a celebration of the Fourth of July, one feature of which was a banquet, with the 
following " Toasts and Sentiments for the day " : " 1st. The United States of America. 
2d. The Western World, — perpetual union, on principles of equality, or amicable separa- 
tion. 3d. The Illustrious GEORGE WASHINGTON, Esq. — may his services be re- 
membered. 4th. The Navigation of the Mississippi, at any price but that of liberty. 5th. 
Harmony with Spain and a reciprocity of good offices. 6th. Our brethren at the 
Muskingum, and prosperity to their establishments. 7th. May the savage enemies of 
America be chastised by arms, and the jobbing system of treaties be exploded. 8th. The 
Convention of Virginia ; may wisdom, firmness, and a sacred regard to the fundamental 
principles of the revolution guide her councils. 9th. Energetic government, on foederal 
principles, ioth. Trial by jury, liberty of the press, and no standing army. nth. May the 
Atlantic be just, the Western States be free, and both be happy. 12th. The memory of de- 
parted heroes and patriots. 13th. No paper money ; no tender laws, and no legislative 
interference in private contracts. 14th. The Commonwealth of Kentucke, the Fourteenth 
luminary in the American constellation, may she reflect upon the original States the 
wisdom she has borrowed from them." 

5 See nos. 917, 918, 922, 926-930, ante, 935, 936, post. As in previous letters to 
Washington and to Randolph Madison discusses the probable results of the decision. 

6 See no. 902, note 2, ante. Jefferson's letter to Jay (private), May 27, on the 
subject of his outfit, is in Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 160; Jay's reply is ibid., p. 166. 
Jefferson's letter to Madison on the subject, May 25, is in Writings, V. 12. Jay's report on 
Jefferson's inquiry was on Aug. 22, and his request that the matter be referred to a 
committee was on Sept. 3. It appears that the committee was not appointed until 
Oct. 2 (see the notes in the Journals under Sept. 3 and Oct. 2). See no. 945, post. 



800 Continental Congress 

gress. This was done and his letter referred back to be reported on. The 
idea between us was that the reference should be [to a committee his letter] 
coming [in at a moment] when [I happened to be out] it was as in [course 
referred to his department]. His [answer suggested] that as [he might 
be thought eventually concerned] in [the question] it was most [proper 
for the consideration of a committee] . I had [discovered that he was not 
struck] with the [particularities of your case even when insinuated to 
him]. How far the [committee will be so] is more [than I can yet say]. 
In general I have no doubt that both [it and Congress are well disposed]. 
But it is probable that the idea of a [precedent will beget much caution] 
and what [is worse there is little probability of] again having a [quorum 
of States for the business] 



935. John Swann to James Iredell. 1 

New York, Sept. 21, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I received your favor of 27th August enclosing a Copy of an Address 
to the good people of No. Carolina. 2 You will now give me leave to thank 
you for that enclosure. I do hope and flatter myself that there is too much 
good Sense, candor and personal independence among the Majority of 
that State not to do some justice to the merit of that publication. I mean 
that they will, at least, allow it a cool, liberal and dispassionate reading; 
a claim which the Author has an undoubted right to expect 

Congress have at length finished the preparations necessary to give the 
New Government Effect after a great deal of debating and perhaps some 
warmth ; occasioned by the indecision, or rather division of the Members 
about a place the most proper for the first meeting, etc. etc. This Ques- 
tion, Sir had the power to collect all the delegations from the different 
parts of the Union, so that there has not been a fuller Congress since the 
declaration of Independence. 3 However this business being settled, Con- 
gress, I fear, like all other Bodies about to expire, will scarcely have a 
Witness to its dissolution. 



936. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell. 1 

w York, 22 Sept., '88. 
Dear Sir, 

Before this time you must have heard that the new Government is to 
originate in March next, before which time Virginia could not have 
made all her elections, with time for the Kentucky members to attend. 

[935] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C; Life of Iredell, II. 240. 

2 Probably Iredell's "Answers to Mr. Mason's Objections to the New Constitu- 
tion", in Life of Iredell, II. 186-215. 

• Cf. nos. 885, 886, 888, 889, 899, 001, 914, ante. 
[936] 1 Life of Iredell. II. 241. 



September, 1/88 801 

The new Congress is to meet in New York, a place very eccentric. East- 
ern members will be able to attend with too much ease ; this will give them 
a legislative advantage, an improper one. Had North Carolina been in 
the Union, her five members in the House of Representatives could have 
easily turned the scale in favor of a more southern position. My patience 
and temper have been tried by this question; and the more so, perhaps, 
because for some time past I have not considered it proper to vote on the 
subject. 2 .... 



937. James Madison to Edmund Randolph. 1 

New York Sepr. 24, 1788. 
My dear friend, 

.... Congress have agreed to some resolutions in favor of the 
Mississippi which are well calculated to appease the discontents of our 
Western brethren. You shall soon have a copy of them. They are 
grounded on a remonstrance from N. Carolina on that subject. By the way 
how has it happened that the last resolutions of Virga. were never for- 
warded to the Delegation ? 2 . . . . 

938. James Madison to George Washington. 1 

New York Sepr. 26, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

I subjoin two resolutions lately taken by Congress in relation [to] the 
Mississippi which I hope may have a critical and salutary effect on the 
temper of our western Brethren 2 

In addition to these resolutions which are not of a secret nature, another 
has passed arresting all negociations with Spain, and handing over the 
subject thus freed of bias from any former proceedings, to the Ensuing 
Government. This last Resolution is entered on the secret journal, but a 
tacit permission is given to the Members to make a confidential use of it. 3 

2 Cf. nos. 894, 896, 917, 920, ante. 

[937] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Papers, II. 676. 
2 See nos. 932, 934, ante, 938, 942, 945, post. 

About the beginning of September a controversy arose between the state of Virginia 
and the board of treasury " respecting the double settlement of Doctor George Draper 
with the U. S. and the State of Virginia for the same service in the late Army ". The 
following correspondence in the case is found in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers : 
Virginia delegates to the board of treasury Sept. 12 ; the board to the delegates Sept. 15 ; 
the delegates to the board Sept. 22; the delegates to Governor Randolph Sept. 27; the 
delegates to the board Oct. 4 ; and the delegates to the governor Oct. 4. The letters of 
the delegates to the governor are in Cat. Va. State Papers, IV. 481, 488, 490, 495. 

[938] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 66, vol. II., f. 278 (copy) ; Papers, II. 677; Writings, V. 263 n. 

2 The preliminary paragraph and the first two resolutions of the committee's re- 
port Sept. 16 are here omitted, as in Williamson's letter of Sept. 17 (no. 932, ante). 

3 See nos. 932, 934, 937, ante, 942, 945, post. 



802 Continental Congress 

939. George Thatcher to Nathan Dane. 1 

City of New York 2 October, 1788. 
My friend, 

Tho 'tis but two, or three days since I wrote you I cannot omit, this 
post, to inform you of the Pennsylvania election of Senators. 2 .... 

The new Building is going on with spirit. Congress has this day 
adjourned till Monday, and then to meet in the Rooms where Mr. Jay 
kept his office. This had become necessary, as the Old Hall and Court 
Room are to be new-modled ; and the workmen made such a continual 
noise that it was impossible to hear one another speek. 3 I should not wonder 
if by the middle of next week Congress were to adjourn without delay. 
Many are uneasy and are for going home. 4 

Brother Otis has engaged Lodging for himself on Long Island at two 
Dollars and an half a Week including Ferryage. Thus I am left alone. 

940. John Armstrong, jr., to the Vice-President of Pennsylvania 

(Peter Muhlenberg). 1 

Dear Sir, 

You will oblige me and the other Gentlemen in the delegation by send- 
ing, as soon as possible, a copy of the late Act of the Gen. Assembly for 
appointing electors, etc., etc. 

The recollection I have of it leads me to think that there is in it some 
deviation from the Resolution of Congress of the 13th ult. Should my 
conjecture be founded we must endeavor to obtain some dispensatory 
resolution here. The deviation, I suspect, relates to the Time of appoint- 
ing them. I enclose you a copy of the Resolution of Congress. 

N. York, 9th October, 1788. 2 

[939] ' Library of Congress, Personal, Dane (addressed, "Honorable Nathan Dane 
Esqr Beverly Massachusetts"). 

2 The passage omitted pertains to that election. 

8 A letter from the mayor of New York, James Duane, Sept. 29, read Sept. 30, 
informed Congress of the purpose of the city to make repairs and of the consequent 
inconvenience to Congress. The letter was referred to a committee, who reported Oct. 
1, and Congress took action accordingly on Oct. 2 (Thursday). 

* Thatcher himself departed before the end of the month. See no. 950, post. 

[940] l Pa. Arch., first ser.. XI. 407. 

2 A letter from Vice-President Muhlenberg to the delegates dated Oct. 9 (ibid., 
p. 408) encloses a resolution of the general assembly " passed the 4th instant *', directum 
that application be made to Congress for an extension of the time of the commissioner 
for settling the account between the state and the United States. The resolution (ibid*, 
pp. 406-407) has the date "Saturday, October 14th ", which is of course an error. Oct. 4 
fell on Saturday, Oct. 14 on Tuesday. Neither this application nor the matter to which 
Armstrong refers appears to have found opportunity to be laid before Congress before 
its virtual dissolution. Cf. no. 944, post. 

Armstrong does not appear to have attended Congress after Oct. 9 (he is not recorded 
as voting Oct. 10), and Reid is not recorded as attending after the 10th (except on Jan. 
1, 1789, under the new appointment), although his account for attendance places the 
close of his period of service for the year at Oct. 22 (see below). Irvine was however 



October, 1788 803 

941. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 10th Octr. 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

Will you be so good as forward by the first Post my Commission for 
the next year beginning on Nov. At present I have none nor do I know 
whether Mr. White has one for the Delegation, at present he is not in the 
House and this matter had escaped my Memory or I should have mentioned 
it at a more early day 

942. James Madison to John Brown. 1 

New York Oct. 12, '88. 
Dear Sir, 

I find by the act of your late Convention, that another is take place in 
Nov. with power to propose a form of Government for Kentucky. In 
consequence of this information I shall forthwith execute the request 
contained in your letter from Fort Pitt, 2 and forward the remarks in 
Mr. Jefferson's draft by the next mail. 3 .... 

I enclosed in my last the Resolutions of Congress concerning the Missis- 
sippi. 4 No other articles of moment has lately passed, and it is uncertain 
whether there will again be a quorum, at least during the present Fed. 
Year 

943. Edward Carrington to James Monroe. 1 # 

Baltimore Octo. 12, 1788. 
My dear Sir, 

Being thus far on my way to Richmond and intending to make several 
calls on the way, I take the advantage of a leisure moment to acknowledge 
the Rec't of yours of the 24th Ulto. . . . 

one of the occasional attendants during the remainder of the Congressional year. Fol- 
lowing is Reid's statement of account (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.) : 

" The State of pennsa. to James R. Reid Dr. 

To his pay as delegate from the 6th day of Deer. 1787 till Ocr. 22d, 1788 de- 
ducting Ten days for absence being 312 days at 6 Dollars per day £702. 0.0 
To Milage 21. 12.0 



£723.12.0 
Ct 

By cash on account at four Sundry payments £689.15. 

By Ballance due J R R £ 33.17." 

The statement carries the following endorsements : " Ex'd and Settled Jno. Nicholson 
Compt'l Gen'ls Office Octr. 12th 1788 " ; " Read in Council October 18th, 1788 approved 
and an order drawn James Trimble for Charles Biddle Sec'ry ". 

[941 j 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers. 

[942] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers (carbon copy). An appended note states, 
erroneously, that the letter is to Monroe. 

2 The letter of Aug. 26, cited under no. 906, note 5, ante. 

3 See no. 945, post. 

4 The resolutions of Sept. 16. See nos. 932, 934, 937, 938, ante, 945, post. Brown 
mentions in his letter of Nov. 23 (see no. 906, note 5, ante) a letter from Madison dated 
Sept. 24, as also his letter of Oct. 12. 

[943P Library of Congress, Monroe Papers, Accession 4167A. 



804 Continental Congress 

We are to meet in the Legislature, where the new Constitution is to 
furnish much business, of which, efforts towards alterations will form 
no small part. The circular letter of N. York I am told is received with 
avidity amongst you. 2 I am, however, inclined to think, that a concurrence 
with it, will not lead to any thing effectual, as to the views of those who 
are for an early revision, for I suspect there will not be a sufficient number 
of concurring States to bring about a Convention. Will it not be better to 
decline it, then, altogether, and strongly recommend the desired alterations 
to the notice of the first Congress? My sentiments as to an early revision 
you already know, but at the same time I will not obstinately set myself 
against a respectable majority. I shall be with you in the course of the 
week, or perhaps not until the 20th the day for the meeting of the 
Assembly. 

I left N. York last Monday 

944. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

$ ir New York Octr. 13th, 1788. 

Congress have resolved that the Commissioners lately appointed shall 
enter on their Duty after they shall have been informed that the Returns of 
the Papers and Vouchers from the sev[era]l States are ready for their 
Inspection. 2 Hence it must be on February on March before they can 
begin, but I am informed that some of the States as Pensylvania Virginia 
and perhaps South Carolina cannot have delivered in all their Claims 
before the Time expires in which the District Commissioners are per- 
mitted to receive such Claims, whence it is probable that an Application 
will be made by one or another of those States for a longer Day in which 
they may be suffered to deliver in or to forward their Claims against the 
Union. 8 From late Information I am induced to fear that our State may 
not have given in all its Claims against the Union before the Commis- 
sioner shall have finished the Time for which he was appointed, in this 
Case the State will doubtless wish for a longer day and I think it probable 
that the Delegates in Congress on such Intimation from the State will 
not find it difficult to obtain a farther Resolve that may remove any 
Difficulties. 

In your Letter of 16th June * you was pleased to intimate that " The 
people between French broad River and the Holstein complain that Con- 
gress have neglected to take up some Matters respecting their Interests 
which were referred to them in the late Treaty etc " In consequence of this 
Intimation you will observe that the Delegates obtained a Proviso to be 
inserted in the late Proclamation in favour of those People B but we 

* Cf. nos. 896, 904, 910, 918, ante. 

[944] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 2, 10; and no. 926, note 5, ante. 

* See no. 940, note 2, ante. 

* The letter is not found in N. C. State Recs. 

8 The Journals, Sept. I. See nos. 921, 924, 925, ante. 



October, 1788 805 

knew nothing of another Settlement on the South Side of French broad 
who could not be covered by that Proviso. However being now informed 
that there are peaceable Settlers, Citizens of the State who may be dis- 
quieted by the Operation of the Treaty I shall certainly count it my Duty 
to move in Congress for an express Vote or Resolve that no Citizen of 
the State be disquieted in his Possession under the Cover of any Treaty 
made with the Indians provided such Citizen is observant of the Laws of 
the State or within its Protection. 6 In the mean while I think you may be 
assured that no Citizen of the State within the Lines mentioned in the 
Hopewell Treaty or without those Lines will ever be incommoded by any 
Officer acting under Congress because the only Object of such Officer 
must be to remove lawless intruders [on] the Indians, but the Indians 
could hardly request the Removal of People who have settled by their 
Permission ; but there is a more conclusive Reason viz The Indians must 
be protected by the State of N. Carolina or remain without Protection, 
for the Handfull of Troops now in the public Service over the Ohio have 
too much to do in that Quarter to be able to do other Duty. In fact a 
general Indian War with the Western Indians, those over the Ohio, seems 
to be impending. The British at Detroit by giving the Indians large 
presents seem to be attempting to prevent them from treating with us, for 
the Governor of the Western Territory is now attempting to hold a Treaty. 
Very few of the Indians have come in. A Cloud seems to be collecting. 
Two small Parties of Continental Troops have lately been assaulted and 
some of them killed by different Tribes of Indians. Fifteen hundred 
Militia of Pensylvania are ordered to be in Readiness to oppose those 
Indians, but Govr. St. Clair writes that more will be necessary. Under 
such appearances perhaps you will think with me that our State will be 
happy if by their own Prudence and Exertions they can mentain Peace 
with the neighbouring Indians. 7 I have the Honour to be with the utmost 
Consideration Sir 

Your most obedient and very humble Servant 

Hu Williamson 
His Excellency 

Sam'l Johnston Esqr. 

945. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

New York, Ocr. 17, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Nothing has been done on the subject of the outfit, 2 there not 
having been a Congress of nine States for some time, nor even of seven 
for the last week. It is pretty certain that there will not again be a quorum 

6 Concerning the settlement south of the French Broad see Williams, Lost State 
of Franklin, ch. XXVIII. ; Abernethy, From Frontier to Plantation in Tennessee, 
pp. 49, 82; Haywood, History of Tennessee, pp. 193-196; Ramsey, Annals of Tennessee, 

PP- 433-437- 

7 See no. 964, post. 

[945] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 269; Letters, I. 421. 
2 See no. 934, note 6, ante. Bracketed words are written in cipher. 



806 Continental Congress 

of either number within the present year, and by no means certain that 
there will be one at all under the old Confederation. The Committee find- 
ing that nothing could be done have neglected to make a report as yet. I 
have spoken with a member of it in order to get one made, that the case 
may fall of course and in a favorable shape within the attention of the 
New Government. The fear of a precedent will probably lead to an 
allowance for a limited time of the [salary as enjoyed originally] by 
[foreign ministers] in [preference to a separate allowance for outfit]. 
One of the [members of the treasury board] who ought, if certain facts 
have [not escaped his memory to witness the reasonableness of your] 
calculations [takes occasion I find to impress a contrary idea]. 8 Fortu- 
nately [his influence will] not [be a very formidable obstacle to right]. 

I inclose a paper containing the late proceedings in Kentucky. I wish the 
ensuing Convention may take no step injurious to the character of the 
district, and favorable to the views of those who wish ill to the U. States. 
One of my late letters * communicated some circumstances which will not 
fail to occur on perusing the objects of the proposed Convention in next 
month. Perhaps however there may be less connection between the two 
cases than at first one is ready to conjecture. 

946. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 17th Octr. 1788. 
Sir, 

The length and frequency of the Letters, on public Affairs, with which 
I have taken the Liberty of troubling you would require an Apologie was 
it not that I had rather submit to a charge on this Account than be sus- 
pected of neglect of Duty or Inattention to the Interest of the State. 

With this you will receive a Copy of the printed Journal of Congress to 
the 1st Inst. Near the End of the Journal you will find the Report of a 
Committee who have taken much Pains to understand the Administra- 

8 Probably Arthur Lee. 

♦The letter referred to was doubtless that of Aug. 23 (no. 916, ante). Cf. no. 
942, ante. In a letter to Randolph the same day Madison mentions a letter just received 
from Jefferson (July 31, Jefferson's Writings, V. 43), "but it contains nothing of much 
consequence ". " His public letters to which it refers ", Madison continues, " have not 
yet been communicated from the office of Foreign Affairs." Those letters (July 29, 
Aug. 3, Dipt. Corr. U. S. A., 1783-1789, II. 173-178), together with letters of Aug. 10 
and 11 (ibid., pp. 181, 182), so Jay wrote to Jefferson Nov. 25, "have not been laid 
before Congress, although I transmitted them to the President for that purpose; for a 
sufficient number of members to form a House have not since convened. The members 
present have, nevertheless, read them" (ibid., p. 183). Madison also remarks in the 
letter to Randolph, "As Col. Carrington will be with you before this gets to hand, 
I leave it with him to detail all matters of a date previous to his departure ". Carring- 
ton wrote to Madison from Fredericksburg Oct. 19, that he had arrived there on the 
evening of the 18th and was going on to Richmond ; that he had left Mount Vernon on 
Friday (the 17th). where he "had much conversation with the General upon the prob- 
able politics of the assembly with respect to the Constitution" (Madison Papers). 
Washington records in his Diary that Carrington came for dinner on the 15th and left 
after breakfast on the 17th (Fitzpatrick, Diartes of George Washington, III. 433, 434). 
See no. 948, post. 

[946I 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (marked "public"). 



October, 1788 807 

tion of the Treasury. 2 The Operation of this Report compared with the 
Act of May 22nd may prove a Salutary Lesson to Speculators and public 
Defaulters and may help to Save our Constituents from the Tax of many 
a Dollar. 

The Secretary of Congress has doubtless forwarded an Act of Septr. 
1 6th respecting the Practice of transporting convicted malefactors from 
foreign Countries. Inclosed is a Paper that respects a late Importation of 
such People. On the last year others had been landed to the Eastward 
in Massachusetts. Congress have complained to the British Court con- 
cerning the Cargo that was sent from New Providence ; Perhaps a greater 
insult to any Nation could hardly have been offered. 3 

On the 13th Inst I wrote you in much Haste a Letter 4 which may not 
have come to Hand. The Object was to inform you that the Board of 
Commissioners for Settling Accounts between the several States and 
the Union can hardly be ready to proceed to Business before Feby. or 
perhaps March next. My Information induces me to believe that three 
or four of the States cannot have given in all their Claims when the 
Time expires in which the District Commissioners are at Liberty to receive 
Claims ; hence it will follow that those States will desire the Indulgence of 
more Time. I think it probable that North Carolina may wish for more 
Time to deliver in her Claims, in this Case the Delegates certainly will 
not fail to move for such a Resolution on the first Intimation from the 
State and I presume that a longer Day might readily be obtained. 

Our Affairs with the Western Indians wear a very gloomey Aspect. The 
Indians are coming very slowly to a Treaty, about this Time to be held at 
Muskingum, and many of them have sent Word that they shall come 
Armed. The British at Detroit hearing of this Treaty have been giving 
the Indians considerable Presents though it was but a short Time since 
they had given them other Presents uncommonly large. A Party of 
Indians have lately attacked a Convoy of Provisions on the Wabash, 
killed ten Continental Soldiers and wounded eight ; they had some Weeks 
before that killed several Continental Soldiers who were guarding Pro- 
visions. The Wabash Indians are daily bringing in Scalps. Genl. St. Clair 
the Governor of the Western Territory, who is holding the Treaty, has, 
in pursuance of a Vote of Congress requested of the Executive of Penn- 
sylvania and Virginia to hold 1500 of their Militia in readiness to oppose 
the Indians and he has written to Congress some days ago that he fears 
the number mentioned will be insufficient. 5 

The British are tampering with the Indians on this Side and the 
Spaniards have lately, very exceptionably, presumed to hold a Treaty with 
Indians who live within the Territories of the United States. In this 

2 The report transmitted is no doubt the report of the committee appointed to 
inquire into the department of finance, found in the Journals under Sept. 30. A nota- 
tion subjoined to the report by Williamson, bearing the same date as this letter and 
pointing to certain errors, is quoted in an editorial note in the Journals, as also sundry 
corrections indicated by Williamson in the body of the report. Cf. no. 950, post. 

3 See no. 931, ante. 

4 No. 044, ante. 

5 See the report from the war office Oct. 6, in the Journals, Oct. 8 ; also the report 
on the condition of the war department, in the Journals Oct. 2. 



808 Continental Congress 

State of Indian Affairs, and considering that there is but a Handfull of 
national Troops in Service, I think it clear that North Carolina must 
depend on her own Prudence or her own strength for the Measure of 
Peace that she may enjoy with the neighbouring Indians. 
I have the Honour to be with the utmost Consideration 
Sir 

Your most obedient and very h'ble Servant 

Hu Williamson 
His Excellency 

Saml. Tohnston Esqr. 

947. Peleg Arnold to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(John Collins). 1 

New York Octr. 20th, 1788. 

Sir, 

I have Inclosed herewith for the Information of your Excellency and 
the State the Journal of this year to the first Day of this Inst. The Secry. 
Informs that the part preceding this has been officially Transmitted. By 
the resolution of the 20th Sept. you will find an Indent requisition on the 
States for the present year. I presume that Indents may be obtained on 
better Terms at this time then at a future time and that it will be for the 
Interest of the State to make timely Provesion to Discharge her Quota of 
Indent Requisitions. 

By the Resolution of the nine and thirteen Sept. Three Commissioners 
are appointed in pursuance of the Ordinance of May 7th, 1787, They 
being Empowered by Said ordinance to admit claims against the Union 
that are not supported by vouchers (as therein set forth) on principles 
of Equity and Justice. If the State have any such Claims, I suggest 
whether it will not be Necessary to appoint some Person having good 
Information of the Nature of them to attend the Commissioners after 
they meet in order to State to them the Nature of all such Claims.* 

As it will be but a short time befor a New form of government will 
take place in the United States, and as the State which I have the Honour 
to represent have not thought proper to adopt that Form of Government, 
I submit whether it is not Expedient for the State to take the Proposed 
Constitution under Consideration and make their objections to the par- 
ticular parts that are Incompatible to a good System of Government, and 
make Known to the States in the Union on what terms the State would 
Join them. This is a Subject on which I have Contemplated for a Con- 
siderable Time and it appears of such Importance as to require United 
wisdom and mature Deliberation to inable the State to pursue Prudent 
Measures. 

The Federal Lands in the Western Country which on principles of 
go[o]d Policy must be appropriated as a fund for sinking the National 

[947] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1785-1788, p. 117; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 613. 

3 See no. 926, note 5, ante. 



October, 1788 809 

Debt, are selling and preparing for sale for that purpose. The Geographer 
is now in that Country Surveying, and measures have been taken to hold a 
gene'l Treaty with the Different Tribes of Indions inhabiting those Lands 
in order (if Possible) to Establish a perm[an]ent Peace and Extinguish 
their Claims to them. 3 

I am under the Necessity of Informing that my Situation renders it 
Expedient for the State to make further Provision for my support. Such 
Matters as are unfinish'd at the end of this Year, and others that con- 
cern the Union will be taken into Consideration by the Congress which 
are to assemble the first monday in Novr. Next. If it is the Desire of the 
hon'le assembly that I should represent the State the next year, I hope 
they will give Direction for one of my Colleagues to take his seat. 

948. Edward Carrington to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 

Richmond Octo. 20, 1788. 
Sir, 

Having received information that the Gentlemen Freeholders of Pow- 
hatan have required my services in the House of Delegates, and being 
assured by two of my worthy Colleagues that they will continue their 
attendance in Congress during the small part of the Federal year which 
now remains to be compleated, I have ventured to presume upon the indul- 
gence of my constituents, in dispensing with my further services in that 
Body, in order that I may be at liberty to obey the request of my County. 
Upon this presumption I now beg leave to signify to your Excellency, 
my resignation of the Congressional powers with which I have been hon- 
oured by the General Assembly. 2 

949. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Georgia 
(George Mathews). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Oct. 22d, 1788. 
Sir, 

The above is a copy of the letter I had the honor to write to your 
Predecessor pursuant to the enclosed Act of Congress, 2 but have not had 
the pleasure of receiving any of your laws, except three pamphlets which 
were left by Mr. Baldwin, and which contain each a law for preventing 
improper or disaffected persons emigrating from other States, and becom- 
ing citizens of your State passed in August 1782, one passed in Jany. 1784, 
and six in Feby. 1784. If your laws be in print and can be collected, I shall 
be much obliged if your Excellency will order them to be forwarded. If 

8 See nos. 887, 913, ante. 
[948] * Library of Congress, Misc. MSS. 

2 See no. 045, note 4, ante. 
[949] 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 175. 

2 The act enclosed was that of July 27, 1785, and the letter referred to was 
the secretary's letter of July 28, 1785 (no. 185, ante). 



810 Continental Congress 

they are out of print, I shall take it as a favour if you will cause copies 
to be made and sent on of the laws passed in pursuance of the requisitions 
of Congress and particularly that of the 13th April 1787 which is here- 
with enclosed. And as the Government which is soon to commence under 
the new Constitution is vested with the power of regulating commerce 
with foreign Nations and of laying and collecting duties and Imposts and 
it will be of importance to them to be informed of the actual state of the 
commerce, and the laws of each State imposing duties or regulating trade, 
I shall take it as a favour if your Excellency will cause copies of such 
laws of your State as relate to this subject to be forwarded to this Office 
as soon as possible. 8 

950. Samuel Alleyne Otis to Nathan Dane. 1 

New York 29 Oct. 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

. . . . 2 Brother Thatcher s has left me several days since, and not 
being more than two states represented, nor more than 4 or 5 members 
here, and no prospect of new Congress until Decern* r, I determine on 
Monday, accompanied by Doct'r Tucker, 4 to sett off for Massachusetts. 

8 A similar letter was sent to each of the states, varying for the most part only 
in the passage pertaining to the laws received and those desired. For some reason the 
letter to New York lacked the sentence "And . . . possible ", closing with a re ques t 
for deficiencies. The letters are recorded in the Secretary's Letter-Book, pp. 168-175; 
that to Massachusetts is in Mass. Arch., Senate Files, no. 820; that to North Carolina 
is in N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Papers; that to New Jersey is in .V. J. /<!«•:•. Corr., 
P- 356. 

On Oct. 22 or thereabouts Abraham Gark of New Jersey filed his account for at- 
tendance from Nov. 12, 1787, to Oct. 16, 1788, noting the precise days on which he was 
absent. The copy of this statement which has been obtained (from the original, then 
in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phliadelphia) is not quite complete, but 
the essential part of it follows: 

Dr. 
" 1787 To Attending Congress from Novr. 12 to the 17th inclusive 6 days £7. 10. 

To Attendance from Dec. 10th to the 19th inclusive 10 days 12. 10. 

1788 To 38 days attendance from Dec. 27th to Febry. 2d inclusive 47. 10. 

To Attendance from Febry. nth to April 18th inclusive (excepting 1 day 

the 10th of March and 1 day the 14th of April) 65 days 81. 5. 

To Attendance from the last day of April to the 16th day of Octr. in- 
clusive (excepting May 12, 13, 14, and 19th. July 21, Augst. 11, 12, 
13, and 25, Sept. 8, 22, and 23d and Octor. 6th thirteen days) making 
157 days reckoning the days Congress Adjourned Over 196. 5. 



£345 
[With credit items deducted the account shows a balance due of £105, and there is a 
request that this balance be paid " to the bearer my son Abraham Dark Junr." On the 
back of the statement is the following receipt:] Reed. Octr. 24, 1788 of Jama Mott 
Treasurer One hundred and five pounds the Balance of the within Account. Abra. Clark 
Junr. £105.0.0 

[950] ' Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

"Acknowledging a letter of Oct. 22 just received from his correspondent. Otis 
discusses the latter's intimations that he intends to retire from public employment. 

* George Thatcher, the Massachusetts delegate. See no. 939, ante. Thatcher was 
in attendance Oct. 21, but must have taken bis departure shortly thereafter. 

♦Presumably Thomas Tudor Tucker, delegate from South Carolina. Both 
Tucker and Otis, having been re-elected, returned to Congress, the former on Dec. 15, 
the latter Dec. 30. 



November, 1788 811 

Mr. Smith's letter was safely delivered. You had probably with you 
the report of the Comit' on board of Tresury. Williamson was very san- 
guine to have it printed in the Journals, as a business which might do 
the Committee some honor, But they made a shocking blunder in the 
report, of the am't more than 300000 doll's ; and so hurried was the busi- 
ness lest another day should occasion deficiency of nine States, that Con- 
gress accepted the report, and the blunder is printed in all the journals; 
by which it appears, there is 300000 doll's in the Chest, when there is not 
a shilling : Moreover the Comitt reported that B of Tresury exceeded their 
orders in contracting for the forty five ton Copper premium upon 300 tons 
with Jarvis ; This the board think themselves indelicatly used in ; And had 
I noticed it, in the single cursory reading with which I was favored, I 
should have made my feeble opposition; Because I think the power was 
strongly implied, and if it was erroneous, I think being an error of Judge- 
ment should have been more delicately treated 5 Inter nos. 

Hascal 6 is here, he intimates that our state will suffer for want of 
exertion in our Committee he has however filed the accounts Also I 
had a hint that the ordinance for appointing the three Commissioners/ 
is somehow or other so cooked that the Penobscott business, altho con- 
solidated at n6ooo£, will be thrown out by that Board. Farther, the 
Resolve for depreciation passing several days only after our troops first 
disbanded, we are like to have a dispute about that also. So true is it, in 
public and in private Concerns, that the free horse is ridden to death. The 
expenditures of our Board of War, the great disproportion of men we 
had in the field, the astonishing loss by old money, and want of alertness 
in bringing forward accts. with regularity and in season, will hang like a 
mill stone about the neck of Massachusetts for ages. 

Two Ideas are impressed upon my mind, upon which I want your 
opinion, One is, the expediency of assuming the State debts, 8 Another is 
the appointment of a competent accountant, if such one can be found, 
acquainted with the business, to advocate our claims before the board. 

Mr. Osgood is again drooping, I think his complaints obstinate. 

951. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, Nov. 4th, 1788. 
Sir, 

I have now the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed 
two copies of the Journal of Congress from the 20th of August to the 
end of the federal year, one for the Executive, the other for the legisla- 
tive department of government, as a few months more will close the 
Journal of the United States in Congress Assembled, and the proceedings 

8 See no. 946, ante. 

6 Probably Capt. Jonathan Haskell. 

7 The ordinance of May 7, 1787. See no. 926, note 5, ante. 

8 Cf. no. 797, ante. 

[95i] 1 MSS. of William D. Ely, Providence (to Rhode Island, with the date Nov. 
6); Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 100; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, 
p. 176. 
58 



812 Continental Congress 

of last year would make but a small volume, I mean to include both in one, 
and defer binding up the volume till the first of March next, at which time 
proceedings will commence under the new Constitution. 

952. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of Virginia 
(Edmund Randolph). 1 
Sir, 

Be so obliging to inform the House of Delegates that I shall continue 
in New York to execute the important Trust with which the general As- 
sembly are pleased to honor me. 2 

I receive this further Mark of their Confidence with gratitude and 
pleasure and will endeavor to answer the expectations of my Country. 

November 226, 1788. 

953. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 

Philadelphia, Deer. 8, 1788. 
Dear Sir, 

.... [Moutier 2 proves a most unlucky appointment]. He is [un- 
social proud] and [niggardly and betrays a sort of fastidiousness towards 
this country.] He [suffers also from his illicit connection with Madame 
de Brehan] which is [universally known] and [offensive to American man- 
ners. She] is [perfectly soured toward this country.] The [ladies of 
New York] (a [few within the official circle excepted]) have for some 
[time withdrawn their attention from her. She knows the cause,] is 
[deeply stung by it, views everything thro the medium of rancor] and 
[conveys her impressions to her paramour over whom she exercises des- 
potic sway.] Latterly [their time has] chiefly [been spent in travelling.]* 
The first [visit was to an Indian treaty at Fort Schuyler] and thence to 
the Oneydo* town.] The [next to Boston] and [thence to New Hamp- 

[95a] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

2 Griffin is alluding to his re-election as a delegate. His credentials had been 
delivered Nov. 15; those of Tohn Dawson, his colleague, on Dec. I. Madison wrote to 
Randolph from Philadelphia Nov. 23, "Mr. Dawson arrived here this morning" (Writ- 
ings, V. 305). A letter from Dawson to Governor Clinton relative to the Virginia vote 
on the Constitution was among the George Ginton Papers in the New York State 
Library. 

[953] x Library of Congress, Madison Papers; Writings, V. 309. 

2 At some later time Madison wrote at the foot of the page this note : " See let- 
ters] of May 23 and 27, 1789, for more favorable view of him and Mad. Brehan." In 
the letter of May 23 (Writings, V. 370) Madison says, "It is with much pleasure I in- 
form you that [Moustier begins to make himself acceptable] ; and [with still m 
that [Madame Brehan begins to] be [viewed in the light] which [I hope she meritsj. 
and which was so little [the case when I wrote by Mr. Morris.] " (The letter of Dec. 8 
was sent by the hand of Gouverneur Morris.) The remarks in the letter of May 27 
(ibid., p. 371) are similar. Cf. nos. 805, 810, 844, 851. 856, ante, and no. 960, post. See 
also Jefferson to Madame de Brehan Mar. 14, 1789 (Writings, V. 78). Bracketed words 
are written in cipher. 

•There is no cipher for "travelling", the word being conjecturally supplied 
in the interlinear translation. The same is true for the word " been " in the same 
sentence, and also for the second syllable of the word " visit " in the next sentence. 

4 The cipher translates : " One-y-do ". which is interpreted as Ontido in the 
interlinear translation. Respecting Moustier's presence at the treaty of Fort Schuyler, 
as also for remarks upon his manners, see Canadian Archhvs. 1800. pp. 104, 216. 



December, 1788 813 

shire.] The [last to Mount Vernon from which] they but [lately re- 
turned.] 5 On [their journeys] it is [said they often neglect the] most 
obvious [precautions for veiling their intimacy.] At [Boston he im] 
pudently [suffered etiquette to prevent] even [an interview with gov- 
ernor Handcock]. The [inhabitants, taking part with the governor], 
neither [visited nor invited the count] . They were then less apprehensive 
of a misinterpretation of the neglect as the most cordial intercourse had 
just preceeded between the town] and [the French squadron]. Both the 
[count and the Marchioness are particularly unpopular among their coun- 
trymen here]. Such of them as are not under [restraint make very free 
remarks] and are [anxious for a new diplomatic arrangement]. It is but 
right to add to these [particulars, that there is reason to believe] that 
unlucky [impressions were made on the count at his first] probably [by 
de la Forest the consul a cunning disciple I] take it [of Marbois' politics] 
and by something in [his communication with Jay] which [he considered 
as the effect of coldness] and [sourness toward France] 8 

954. John Jay to Peter T. Curtenius. 1 

New York 10 Deer 1788 
Sir, 

Instead of presenting a particular account against the State for my 
Services as one of their agents to manage their Controversy with Mas- 
sachusetts and as one of their Delegates in Congress, I shall only state 
Facts, and submit it to the Legislature to make such order on the Sub- 
ject, as may be most consistant with their Sense and Construction of the 
Laws respecting it. 

6 See Washington's Diary, Nov. 2 to 6 (Fitzpatrick, Diaries of George Wash- 
ington, III. 441-442) ; also Washington to the Comte de Moustier Oct. 18, Dec. 15 
(Writings, ed. Sparks, IX. 438, 453). Madame de Brehan painted a miniature portrait 
of Washington (ibid., X. 117; Diaries, IV. 14). 

6 The following memorandum of account for attendance in Congress, from Jan. 
20 to Nov. 3, is in the Madison Papers (see no. 783, note 3, ante). While the time re- 
turning home is placed at eleven days, Madison had got no farther than Alexandria by 
Dec. 18 (letter to his father, Writings, V. 317). 

" 1788. Commonwlth. of Va. to Js. M. Dr. 

To service and travells from Cong's from Jany. 20 to March 23 — 

62 days 372 D'rs 

By advance in Novr. last 100 



272 Doll'rs 
By draught in favr. Hazlehurst and Co. 266J 

1788. Commonwlth. of Va. to J. M. Dr. 

doll'rs 
To balance on account made out and transmitted to March 23, 1788 5J 
To travelling to and service in Cong's from July 1st to Monday 3 

day of Novr. 750 

To returning from Cong's 11 days 66 

Credit 

By one Quarter's advance July 1st 

By draught dated ocr. 4 and presented by Col. Carrington 250 dollars " 

[954] iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 688. 



814 Continental Congress 

In order to be at Congress in Season, I set out for Trenton, on the 
14 Novr. and arrived the 16th. Few Members being then there, I went 
the 19th to Philada., and returned to Trenton the very Day they made a 
House, but not untill after they had adjourned for that Day. I think 
it was on the 21 Deer, following that I entered into my present office, 
whereby my Seat in Congress was vacated. 

During the Session of Congress at Trenton, and afterwards in this City, 
while I continued one of the agents, I attended to that Business as occa- 
sions required. The Time employed in that Service was at Intervals and 
never that I recollect for a whole Day together, of these Intervals and the 
Number of Hours actually employed, I have no particular acct. and can- 
not therefore ascertain the Number of Days which I ought strictly to 
charge. 

I shall be satisfied with whatever the Legislature may direct, for as 
on the one Hand I was not induced to accept these appointments from 
pecuniary Considerations, so on the other I am persuaded the Legisla- 
ture will do what shall appear to them right and reasonable. 

F. S. I have reed, on acct. £ 65.6.8* 

955. Samuel Alleyne Otis to Jeremiah Wadsworth. 1 

New York Jany. 12th, 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

Agreeably to your request 1 inform you that So. Carolina Verginia 
Pensylvania and N Jersey are represented in Congress and that Massa- 
chusetts and N Carolina probably will be in a few days; other delegates 
are expected and I wish to see Connecticut upon the ground.* 

I congratulate you upon your election to a seat in the New Government. 
I am disappointed in mine contrary to well grounded expectations ; upon 
which having been long practised in public affairs, my misfortunes pecu- 
liar, and my commercial prospects at an end, I am induced to solicit public 
favor. I find Mr .Thomson will not accept of being Clerk of the Senate, 
to which, or the Clerkship of the House, I am advised to offer myself a 

2 On the back of the letter, presumably in the writing of Curtenius, is the 
following notation : 

" attendance in Novr. 17 

in Deer. 21 

cotnming home 2 



40 

attendance at N York at difft times say 6 



46 at 64/ £147. 4 

By Cash 65. 6.[8]. 



81.17.U]." 

This is of course a belated rendering of account, for the attendance was in November 
and December, 1784. The extra six days appear to have been credited to Jay as agent 
of New York in the Massachusetts controversy rather than as delegate. 

[95S] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.. M. O. C. 
* Cf. nos. 956, 958-963. 965. 967. 970, post. 



January, 1789 815 

Candidate, 3 and in either of which your friendship and Influence would 
go far to further my views, which have never extended thro life than a 
decent subsistence, and which now bounds my most sanguine wishes or 
aspiring hopes. Should you Sir approve my proposition as it relates to 
either of the appointments, and being a stranger to some of your honorable 
Colleagues would mention my pretentions, it would confer an obligation. 
The Conduct of Clinton and the assembly is alarming, his opposition is 
open decided and formidable. 

956. Tench Coxe to Benjamin Rush. 1 

New York Jany. 13th, 1788 [1789.] 
Dear Sir, 

.... Four States are represented and three in part. A Quorum from 
seven will be here by the 20th, when a president will be chosen. Mr. Wads- 
worth has been mentioned to me. I have some wishes on this subject of 
which more hereafter. 2 .... 

957. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 19th* Jany., 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the 20th ult. did not come to Hand 'till on the 17th Inst: 
I consider myself flattered by the additional Proof our State has given of 
their Confidence in my Disposition to serve them. Certainly the Duties 
of an Agent in settling old and intricate Accounts are not so agreeable to 
my feelings as some other Commissions with which I have been honoured 
by the State, but I conceive that the State is deeply interested in the faith- 
ful Discharge of those Duties and in Cases where the public may be 
profited by any Service of mine I shall never shun an Office meerly be- 
cause it is laborious. I shall therefore accept of the Appointment and in 
Discharge of the same shall try to deserve the approbation of the State. 
The general Commissioners of Congress are just arrived in Town and are 
as I think to enter on the Duties of their Office on this day. I hope that 
no Time will be lost in forwarding the Charges and Vouchers of our 
State. 2 

3 See nos. 965, 977, 978, post. 
[956] x Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 

2 Cf. nos. 959, 961, post. Coxe also discusses some questions pertaining to elec- 
tions under the Constitution, particularly the question as between Washington and 
Adams for the Presidency. Of the Pennsylvania delegation James R. Reid had attended 
on Jan. 1, Coxe on Jan. 10. 

[957] 1 Library of Congress, Personal, Williamson; N. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's 
Letter-Book (copy) ; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 519. 

2 This was the board of commissioners for settling the accounts between the 
states and the United States, provided for in the ordinance of May 7. 1787. The com- 
missioners were William Irvine, John Taylor Gilman, and Abraham Baldwin, the first 
two elected Sept. 9, the last on Sept. 13. See nos. 926 (note 5), 944, 947, 950, ante. Cf. 
nos. 963, 970-972, 976, 981, post. 



816 Continental Congress 

958. Tench Coxe to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Mifflin). 1 
Sir, 

I had the honor of writing you a very few lines shortly after my arrival. 
Mr. Gorham having arr'd since, we have five states, and every reason to 
expect there will be seven in a week or ten days 2 

In a conversation last Night with Mr. Gorham, I find he and Mr. 
Philips, 8 who purchased of Massachusetts, all the lands between the line 
of pre-emption and the western bounds of New York, are of opinion that 
the words of the New York cession to Congress do not operate a trans- 
fer of the lands east of Erie to Congress, and of course that the jurisdic- 
tion remains in New York and that the property is vested in them under 
the grant of New York to Massachusetts — 'Tis certain that the grant or 
cession of New York discovers a considerable deficiency of Geographical 
information, which you will easily see, Sir, by recurring to it. 4 .... My 
opinion on a slight examination is, that it will leave our purchase good. 
Mr. Gorham seems desirous, if the law proves theirs to sell to Pennsyl- 
vania, but it is necessary that we remember their doctrine deprives us of 
the Jurisdiction, for New York most probably will not part with it. I 
think it proper to add further that Mr. Gorham raised a question, whether 
the grant of the Jurisdiction to Penns'a by Congress was valid. These 
loose hints, Sir, upon so important a point are not fit in form, at least, for 
the public Eye, but it is necessary, that you, and the other superior charac- 
ters in our government should be apprized of the difficulty which is at- 
tempted to be raised * 

New York, 26th Jany. 1789. 

959. Tench Coxe to James Madison. 1 

New York 27th Jany. 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been here about a Fortnight during which time we have not 
made a Congress. 2 So. Carolina, Virga., Pennsa., N. Jersey, and Massa- 
chusetts are represented. There is one Member from each of the States of 
Rhode Island, N. Carolina and Georgia, but none from New Hampshire, 
Connecticut N. York, Delaware or Maryland. I very much wish we may 
make a house in a week or ten days, as I think the Appearance in Europe, 
and perhaps even here, of the old Congress being in full operation and 

[958] » Pa. Arch., first sen, XI. 539. 

8 Cf. nos. 95s, 956, ante, 959-963. 965. 967, 970, post. 

• The associate of Gorham in the purchase was Oliver Phelps. See Phelps to 
Rufus King Apr. 5 (Life of King, I. 325), and Gorham to King Apr. 6 (ibid., p. 324). 

4 Some remarks upon the " geographical error " in the New York cession here 
follow. Concerning this Erie tract see nos. 797, 798, 864, 874, 883, ante, 962, 964, post. 

6 A description of the Gorham purchase follows in Coxe's letter. In the close 
of the letter is a paragraph concerning the news of the serious illness of the king of 
England. 
[959] 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

* Coxe presented his credentials Jan. 10. 



January, 1789 817 

tranquilly yielding the seats to the new would have a good effect. The 
misrepresentations in Europe have been extremely gross, and must have 
an unfavorable effect upon Emigration in the poorer ranks of life. Col. 
Wadsworth has been mentiond as President. 8 I respect him much, but 
I wish to give appearance to the old System by a character of rather more 
celebrity. Mr. Adams would meet my Judgment better than anv member 
of the present house. The principal Objection is his Absence, which I fear 
will deprive him of his chance. 4 .... 

Mr. Dawson assures me this letter will reach you if sent to the Office 
at Fredericksburg which is the reason of my sending that way. 5 

960. John Dawson to the Governor of Virginia 
(Beverley Randolph). 1 

New York, January 29th, 1789. 
Sir, 

Accept my grateful thanks for your friendly letter of the 14 In't, which 
I receivd by yesterdays Post. 

The states of Massachusetts bay, New York, New Jersey, Pennsyl- 
vania, Virginia and South Carolina are now represented, 2 and altho they 
do not make a congress, yet I consider it incumbent on me to communicate 
to the Executive of our State, some transactions which have come to my 
knowledge 

I have receivd an address to Congress from the Convention of Ken- 
tucky on the subject of the navigation of the Mississippi, coverd by a letter 
from the President. 3 this will be presented at the earliest moment, and in 
answer to the Presidents letter I have observed that it cannot, with pro- 
priety, be acted on by the present Congress, as there will not be more than 
nine states represented, some of which have ever been in favour of the 
surrender of that river to Spain. 

Colo. Morgan, who was in treaty with Congress for a large tract of 
land, on the Mississippi, being disgusted at some conditions annexd to the 
ordinance, which he thought illiberal, has enterd into a plan with Mr. 
Gardoqui, the Spanish Minister at this place, for settling a large tract of 
land, 4 .... 

3 Cf. no. 956, ante, and no. 961, past. 

*John Adams had been elected June 6, 1788, a delegate from Massachusetts, to 
serve one year from the first Monday in November following. See Adams's Works, 
VIII. 483. 

5 Madison replied Feb. 16. A copy of his letter (from the original, then in the 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia) is in possession of the Carnegie 
Institution. 

[960] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 554. 

2 Cf. nos. 95s, 956, 958, 959, ante, 961-963, 965, 967, 970, post. 

3 The address of the convention of Kentucky " To the United States in Congress 
assembled " on the subject of the navigation of the Mississippi, proposed in the convention 
Nov. 5, was adopted Nov. 10, with instructions to the president of the convention to 
transmit it to Congress. An address to the Virginia assembly on the subject of separation 
was also adopted Nov. 10. The proceedings of the convention Nov. 3 to 6 are in the 
Kentucky Gazette of Jan. 30, 1789 ; those of Nov. 7 to 10 in the issue of Feb. 7. 

4 Concerning Col. George Morgan's " treaty " with Congress see the Journals, 
May 13, 14, 23, 26, June 12, 20, Aug. 25. Cf. nos. 961, 975, post. Dawson comments at some 



818 Continental Congress 

On yesterday the Secretary of foreign affairs laid before the attending 
members of Congress a letter from the Governor of the Western Terri- 
tory, which contain'd information interesting to the Union in general and 
particularly to the State of Virginia, the Go'r writes, that he has informa- 
tion on which he can depend that a Colo. Conelly, who renderd himself 
pretty conspicuous during the late war, has lately come from Detroit to 
Louisville, that the apparent object of his Journey is the settlement of some 
private accompts, but that he has good reason to believe that he is employd 
to Lord Dorchester, ( from whom he has lately receivd a pension of £ 200 
St'g in addition to his half-pay) to induce the people of Kentucky either 
to form a Connection [with] Great Britain, or to commit hostilities on 
the Spaniards, that he has written to a number of persons, and has made 
some communications to Genl. Morgan. 8 

You will readily perceive, sir, that for the want of a Congress and a 
foederal tribunal, we coud do nothing decisive in this business. We how- 
ever advisd the Secretary, to write to Gov St. Clair, and to advise him to 
keep a strict eye over Conolly, and if he found his suspiccons well grounded 
to have him apprehended and deliver'd to the State in which he shoud be 
taken, and to be careful to have his papers etc securd, as it woud probably 
bring on a national discussion. 

I doubt not but you before this have receiv'd the information which I 
now give, and have taken proper steps to secure Mr. Conolly, if the above 
mentioned suspiccons are well founded — I, however, considerd it as my 
duty to make the communication especially as I think the business 
more properly belongs to a state, than to the Continent — these circum- 
stanes will, I trust, render any apology for the length of this letter, 
unnecessary 

961. John Dawson to James Madison. 1 

[January 29 (?), 1789.] ■ 
dear sir, 

Since I wrote you nothing worthy your attention has presented itself. 
We have now six states on the floor vis Massachusetts-bay, New York 
New Jersey Pennylvainia S. Carolina and Virginia; and a member from 
Rhode Island, North Carolina and Georgia, another member from Rhode 

length on Morgan's transaction, which he considered to be " of the most interesting na- 
ture, and one which will probably produce a remarkable era in the American history". 

6 See Madison to Washington Mar. 8 {Writings, V. 328), Washington to Harry 
Innes Mar. 2 (with extract of a letter from Innes to Washington Dec. 18), and to 
Thomas Marshall Mar. 27 {Writings, ed. Sparks, IX. 473, 485). Thomas Marshall's 
letter, to which Washington was replying, written from Fayette County, Kentucky, 
Feb. 12, is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IV. 245. Marshall's reply to Wash- 
ington, June 26, is ibid* p. 261. Concerning Connolly's "pension" and activities see 
Canadian Archives, 1890, p. 97 et sea. St. Gair's letter, dated Dec. 13, is in the Bureau 
of Rolls and Library {cf. David W. Parker, Calendar of Papers relating to the Ter- 
ritories, p. 302). Cf. no. 587, ante. 

[961 1 1 Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 This letter, which is found among the Madison Papers at the end of 1788, is 
without date, but it was evidently written about the end of January, 1789, and probably 
on the same day as the letter to Randolph (no. 960, ante), as the contents of the two 
letters are very similar. 



January, 1789 819 

Island is on his way and one from N. C. in Pennylvania, 3 Connecticut you 
know can come in at any time ; we therefore expect in three or four days 
to have nine states represented. Colo. Wardsworth, I think will be chosen 
President — 

I have lately received an address from the convention of Kentucky, re- 
specting the navigation of the Mississippi ; this will be laid before Con- 
gress on their meeting: you are well aware of the difficulties which will 
attend this business ; especially as there will not be more than nine states 
represented, some of which are in favour of the surrender of the river to 
Spain, in which number I am sorry to include South Carolina. The busi- 
ness of Colo Morgan, with the Court of Spain, which you mention'd to 
me at Philadelphia I find much more important than I at first apprehended ; 
in my opinion it will prove an interesting era in the American history and 
furnisheth many arguments for U. States insisting on the free navigation 
of the Mississippi. 4 I have lately seen some letters from Hutchins, and 
there remains not a dout but the emigrations to the New Madrid will be 
very great — how long these neighbours will prove friendly to Spain, or 
how soon she will have cause to repent of her policy is very doubful, and 
can only be determined by time, we are told, and I presume you heard it 
before you left this that a negociation is on foot between France and 
Spain by which New Orleans and the Floridas are to be exchan'd for some 
of the French Islands, shoud this event take place, and France pursues 

3 The Rhode Island delegate on the ground was doubtless Peleg Arnold, although 
he does not appear to have presented his credentials. John Gardner of that state attended 
Feb. 12. The North Carolina delegate in attendance was Hugh Williamson ; the one 
said to be then in Philadelphia was James White. Abraham Baldwin of Georgia was 
standing by, although he also appears to have failed to present his credentials. Dawson, 
whose term expired the first Wednesday in March, evidently took his departure ap- 
proximately at that time, for he was in Philadelphia on Mar. 7 (see Madison to 
Washington Mar. 8, Writings, V. 328). 

It is a curious fact that Rhode Island, of late rather negligent of her duties to the 
Confederation, should now, when the old Congress was expiring, and despite her re- 
jection of the new Constitution, have manifested something approaching a zeal for hav- 
ing her proper share in the obsequies. For the proceedings in Rhode Island following 
the rejection of the Constitution, see Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 
pp. 618-631. The address of the assembly of the state to the President of the United 
States, in September, 1789 {ibid., pp. 621-623), is also in American State Papers, Mis- 
cellaneous, I. 10. Of interest in this connection is the counsel given by Jeremiah Wads- 
worth in a letter written from Hartford April 19, 1789, addressed to " William Arnold 
Esqr. and Messrs. Brown and Francis Providence", in reply to a letter from them 
dated March 26. Following is the essential part of the letter : 

" Let all the federalists in the State unite in an open Manly remonstrance against 
the present Vile administration — represent in forcible Language to the Government of 
the United States : your deplorable Situation — call on them to exert their power without 
delay, to force Obedience to the General Government, shew them you are in earnest. I 
presume there is no danger in this Measure to your personal safety, if I am mistaken 
in this I would advise you to write confidentially to a few friends and let them know 
what you wish and I am certain you will find support as this letter is confidential and 
not to [be] made public it may not be amiss to inform you that their [sic] has long 
been a number of friends in this State ready to give their aid in case your affairs grew 
desperate, as this subject has occupied much of my thought for several Years I am per- 
haps become too sanguine, but I am without any doubt in my mind that your state may soon 
be brought into the Union and the leading step is for the federalists to come forward 
with their desire [?1 on the National Government for National regulations in your 
State." MSS. of William D. Ely of Providence. 

* Cf. no. 960, ante, and no. 975, past. 



820 Continental Congress 

that line of policy which she has hitherto observd, it may prove highly 
beneficial to our western country, as well as to that Kingdom. 5 .... 

Williamson, from N. C. was marrid a few days since to a Miss 
Aptho[r]p, a beautiful girl, about twenty two — she appears much pleasd 
with her bargain — may she never repent, the Marchioness charges me to 
present her best wishes to you. 6 

962. Tench Coxe to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Mifflin). 1 
Dear Sir, 

In addition to the letter Council will receive from our delegation, 8 I 
think it may be useful to give you some further information. As there is 
not yet a Congress, and there is not a certainty of seven states, I would 
submit the propriety of applying to the Secy, for foreign affairs to write 
to the Governor of Canada, for permission to enter the British country to 
make the necessary astronomical observations, and for information 
whether Mr. Ellicott can have the necessary supplies of provisions, boats 
etc., from the British posts. Mr. Gorman 8 of Massachusetts, who is among 
the purchasers of the cession of property by New York, to that State, is of 
opinion that difficulties might arise if our Geographers name (Capt. 
Hutchins and Jonson)* should appear, as he is considered by them in the 
light of an officer leaving their service in time of war. It may be well 
therefore if any thing should prevent Mr. Ellicotts going, to keep this 
Circumstance in mind. I find among the papers of Congress an applica- 
tion from Capt. Hutchins to them in June last, 5 to take up this Business, 
which would have been done in a few days, but when our delegates were 
prepared, there ceased to be a quorum of States. The delay of this matter 
till the new Government meets, will throw it into the great Mass of objects 
that will go before them. I therefore think it will be very proper that we 
apply to Mr. Jay, if council approve the step without the least delay." . . . . 
From a variety of very important considerations respecting the western 
Territories of the United States, I would strongly recommend to the Gov- 
ernment of Pennsylvania, the intersection of the County of Northumber- 
land by a land and water communcation leading to lake Erie this year. 
This improvement is in itself so proper and necessary that it should be done 

8 See no. 576, note 7, ante. 

6 See no. 953, ante. 
[96a] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 542. 

2 No. 964, post. 

■ Nathaniel Gorham. See no. 958, ante. 

4 " Capt. Hutchins and Jonson " may be an interpolation, the " Jonson " erroneous 
(the letter is not now in the archives of Pennsylvania). Capt. Thomas Hutchins, the 
geographer, born in New Jersey, had been an officer in the British army before the 
Revolution. In 1779 he was arrested and imprisoned in London, charged with a trea- 
sonable correspondence with Franklin and other Americans. His oath of allegiance to 
the United States, taken at Passy Mar. 6, 1780, when he was on the point of departure for 
America, is in Am. Phil. Soc., Franklin Papers, LXXIV. 21. See Calendar of Franklin 
Papers, II. 137, 227, IV. 303. Hutchins died in Pittsburgh Apr. 28, 1789. 

6 See nos. 864, 883, ante. 

a If such a step was taken no record of it has been found. 



February, 1789 821 

on that ground alone, but the probable course of Events in the South west- 
ern country, renders it highly advisable to move in it this spring. 7 

New York, 1st Feb. 1789. 

963. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of Virginia 
(Beverley Randolph). 1 
Sir, 

The papers delivered by Major Croghan shall be faithfully Canvassed 
when Congress may assemble, possibly the present week, after which a 
full state of the Business will be transmitted to your Excellency in 
Council. 2 

The Executives of some of the larger states have directed one of their 
delegates upon the same pay to remain here after the N Government 
convene in order to attend the board of Commissioners now siting to 
explain the accounts etc. 3 perhaps it may be salutary in a high degree, 
if your Excellency and the Council shall be of that opinion and think proper 
to entrust me I could have no objection to pass the Summer upon that 
business, at all events the object is important. 

N York feby. 2, 1789. 

964. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Vice-President of 
Pennsylvania (George Ross). 1 

<-.. New York, Febry. 2d, 1789. 

We have been honoured with a communication from the Executive 
Council of the 23d Ultimo. 2 

The same Ideas were suggested by the Geographer last summer, but 
no measures were adopted by Congress to facilitate the completion of that 
survey. 8 

7 Coxe wrote to Robert R. Livingston Feb. 15 respecting the improvements 
made and contemplated. " The attention of our swarming families , he remarked, " has 
been considerably diverted from Kentucky and Niagara. . . . Our Government and 
people are alarmed at the great Emigration to the Kentucky, Ohio and British lands. 
They see that Laws cannot be made to restrain it, and if it were just to make them, 
that they could not be executed. They think therefore that it is indispensably necessary 
to counteract that Movement by every equitable measure. Opening roads thro the heart 
of our new Country, and thus exposing our unsettled Millions to the eyes of these 
Emigrants, carrying conveniences, knowledge and religion to their Doors by judicious 
and modest expenditures." Alluding to the rival interests of Pennsylvania and New 
York in the fur trade of Lakes Erie and Ontario, he confides to Livingston, " Tis our 
wish, that you make a common cause with us in competing with Kentucky and Niagara 
for settlers, and with Great Britain for the fur trade." Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 

7 , 34- 

[963] x Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 559. 

2 These papers have not been identified, but they probably included the address 
from the Virginia legislature to Congress, Nov. 14, 1788, respecting amendments to the 
Constitution. The address was printed in the Virginia Independent Chronicle of Nov. 26 
and is found in American State Papers, Miscellaneous, vol. I., p. 6. 

3 See no. 957, note 2, ante. 

[g64] x Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 543 (signed by Reid and Coxe). 

2 See nos. 958, 062, ante. Ross's letter of Jan. 23 is in Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 
537. See also ibid., pp. 243, 429, 566, 576-577, 589, 591, 612, 615, 655, 691-692, 704. 

3 See no. 864, note 2, ante. 



822 Continental Congress 

965. Samuel Alleyne Otis to James Madison. 1 
n <-.. New York Feby. 4th 1789. 

. . . . 2 I have been several weeks attending here with my Colleagues 
in expectation of a Congress under Confederation, but it appears doubtful 
whether nine States will ever again assemble. 

The N Y assembly are still in session and Mr. Clinton makes all possible 
opposition but it will be in vain. In any event I think the State will sea- 
sonably be represented in the House. 8 

966. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 

(John Eager Howard). 1 

Office of Secy, of Congress 
SiT} Feby. 9, 1789. 

I have to acknowledge the receipt of the letter which your Excellency 
did me the honor to write on the 27 Jany. together with the letter directed 
to the hon'ble the house of Representatives of the United states and con- 
taining a certificate of the persons elected Representatives for your state. 
This I shall not fail to lay before the house as soon as convened.* 

967. James Randolph Reid to Nicholas Gilman. 1 

n ~. New York 14th Feby. 1789. 

I find an agreeable acquaintance in your Brother, 2 he is a well informed 
clever fellow, I hope soon to hear you have succeeded in your political 
views and shall expect to see you about the time of our death,* we have 

[965] * Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 Otis alludes to political disappointments and business misfortunes and reqi: 
Madison's aid in obtaining appointment as secretary of the Senate. See no. 955, ante. 
On Mar. 16 Otis furnished Madison a fuller account of his "pretentions" (Library of 
Congress, Madison Papers). About the same time that he first broached the subject to 
Madison he must also have mentioned his aspirations to John Langdon, for in a letter 
to Langdon Feb. 26 he says, " If you are pleased to approve my views, a word in season 
will benefit as well as oblige" (Letters by Washington .... and Others . ... to John 
Langdon, p. 89). Then, on Mar. 5, he wrote to Langdon, "Finding my competitor 
numerous, and altho' they never held any very important post or employment under 
Congress, hold their pretensions very high, in duty to myself, however painful the task, 
I am obliged to call my own into view ' (ibid.), and proceeds to set fortli his pnteD* 
sions. Among Otis's competitors were William Jackson, late secretary of the Federal 
Convention (letter to Langdon Dec. 1. 1788. ibid., p. 87), and John H. "Livingston, "pri- 
vate Secretary to the late Presidents of Congress " (letters to Langdon Jan. 18 and 
Mar. 4, ibid., pp. 83, 85). A letter from Cyrus Griffin to George Read (Dec. — , 1788), 
soliciting Read's influence in behalf of John R. Livingston, is in Life of Read. p. 468. 
See no. 977, Post. 

8 Respecting the dispute between the two houses of the New York assembly see 
Madison to Jefferson Mar. 29 (Writings, V. 333)- 

[966] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (addressed, "His Excellency J. E. Howard Governor of Maryland"); 
Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 176. 

2 Cf. no. 968, post. 
[967] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll.. M. O. C. 

*John Taylor Gilman, one of the commissioners for the settlement of accounts 
between the states and the United States. See nos. 926, 957, 963, ante. 

• Meaning of course the death of the Old Congress. 



February, 1789 823 

not made a Congress as yet nor do I know whether we shall be able to 

make a will and testament we have five States only * 

I have given ten years of the prime of my life to my Country, my cir- 
cumstances are independent, I have leisure to attend to public business. 
God bless you, may you live to a good old age and beget many Sons and 
Daughters is the wish and prayer of D'r Sir your sincere friend and Obed't 
Servant 

James R. Reid 

968. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Samuel Huntington). 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress 

Feby. 19th, 1789. 
Sir, 

I have just reed, the letter which your Excellency did me the honor to 
write on the 5th together with the packet directed to the Hon'ble the Presi- 
dent of the Senate to be appointed for the sole purpose of receiving open- 
ing and counting the votes for President on the first Wednesday in 
March 1789. This packet I shall not fail to deliver as soon as the Presi- 
dent is appointed. 2 

969. Hugh Williamson to William Blount. 1 

New York 22nd Feby. 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

Inclosed are extracts or ex cuts from three News Papers. By the daily 
of 1 7th Inst you will see that I have taken some Liberties with a N Caro- 
lina Publication and contrived to work Col. Robertson's Advertisement 
into an Article of Intelligence for the Benefit of our Western Friends. 
Some other Papers have since taken the Article of Intelligence from the 
Daily Advertiser. In another Paper of 12th Inst you have a very sensible 
Letter of Mr. Madison which might reconcile any moderate Antifed to 
supporting a good federal man by his Vote etc. In another Paper of 
17th You have an Article under the Alexandria Head respecting Ken- 
tucke People that looks serious and the more so because I think it prob- 
able. 2 Considering how many Letters I write you do not expect they should 
each of them be long. 

4 Reid mentions that he is a candidate for the office of collector in Pennsylvania, 
and solicits Gilman's influence. 

[968] r Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 177. 
2 Cf. no. 966, ante. 

[969] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., John Gray Blount Papers. 

2 The item in the New York Daily Advertiser of February 17 appears as an 
" Extract of a Letter from Edenton, in North Carolina, January 22, 1789 ". It refers to 
the creation of the county of Tennessee out of a part of Davidson County, emphasizes the 
prospects of peaceful relations with the Indians, the welcome to new) settlers, the comple- 
tion of the new road " from the borders of the old settlements to Nashville , and quotes 
Robertson's " advertisement ". The latter, dated at Fayetteville, November 22, 1788, is 
chiefly a statement relative to the new road " from Campbell's Station, at the lower end 
of Clinch Mountain, to Nashville ". 

The letter of Madison referred to is in the Advertiser of Feb. 12 and in the New York 
Daily Gazette of Feb. 13. It is dated "Louisa, Jan. 13, 1789", is addressed to Thomas 



824 Continental Congress 



970. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

~ ~. New York 2nd March 1789. 

Dear Sir, 

On the 4th inst. the Members of Congress under the new form of 
Government are to take their Seats and hitherto we have not made a Con- 
gress. Members from several States who ought to have attended under the 
original Form have been at Home attending to their Elections under the 
new Form hence we have not had more than Six States together. Since 
the middle of October last I have not heard from my Collegue [sic] Dr. 
White. 2 Had it been convenient for him to have attended I presume we 
should have obtained Permission for our State to deliver in the Re- 
mainder of her Claims. As Matters are circumstanced we must try to 
introduce them under an Act of June 24th last. When Col. Thomas " 
brings on the Papers we shall know what remains to be done and in Case 
the Board of Commissioners * should hesitate about receiving any just and 
reasonable Claims such as are made by other States and allowed to them 
we shall not fail to apply for Redress to the new Congress. I think it 
probable that my Privilege of franking Letters after today may be dis- 
puted at the Post Office. 5 In such Case, considering how uninteresting my 

Mann Randolph, and relates to certain reports respecting hjs attitude in the matter of 
amendments to the Constitution. See his letter to George Eve Jan. 2 (Writings, V. 319 n.) 
and that to Washington Jan. 14 (ibid., p. 318). The letter was first sent to the Virginia 
Independent Chronicle by a writer over the signature "A Republican Federalist " and 
printed in the issue of Jan. 28. 

The article " under the Alexandria Head respecting Kentucke People ", which had 
appeared in "another Paper" Feb. 17, was reproduced in the New York Daily Advertiser 
of February 23, under the heading "Alexandria Jan. 22 " : " By information received 
from Kentucky we learn, that many of the principal people of that district, are warmly 
in favor of a separation from the union, and contend that it is injurious to the interests 
of that country, to be connected with the Atlantic states. This idea, so pregnant with 
mischief to America, is said to be much cherished by the intelligence carried there by 
Mr. Brown, member of Congress — to the effect — that he had the strongest assurance from 
the Spanish ambassador that, on such a declaration by the people of Kentucky, Spain would 
cede to them the free navigation of the Mississippi, and give them every support and 
encouragement in her power. Tho' this does not correspond with the opinion that has 
commonly been entertained of that minister, as to prudence, it is so serious in its conse- 
quences, to the peace and existence of the Atlantic states, as to deserve the immediate 
attention of Congress. If it be authentic, Mr. Brown has incurred high penalties for 
holding such a correspondence ; and it is to be hoped, the executive of this state will 
consider it as a part of their duty to enquire into it." 

[970] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 This sentence is here printed in accordance with the copy, but it is possible 
that the clause " Since the middle of October last " belongs to the preceding sentence. 
White is last recorded as in attendance on Oct. 10. Cf. no. 941, ante. 

8 Abishai Thomas, agent for the settlement of public accounts. Sec Johnston to 
Thomas Dec. 28, and to Williamson Feb. 19, in N. C. State Recs., XXI. 551, 526. Cf. ibid., 
PP. 514, 517, 537, 538, 549, 560. 

4 See no. 957, note 2. ante, and nos. 971, 972, 976, 981, post. 

5 Williamson wrote to James Iredell Mar. 2 : "It has not been because I have any 
thing to write that I have taken up my pen; but to tell you, that my not writing fre- 
quently in future must be passed to account of not having the privilege of franking let- 
ters, after the 4th instant : and I am conscious that very few of them are worth the 
trouble of reading, much less the expense of postage" (Ltfe of Iredell, II. 255). Cf. no. 
076, post. 



March, 1789 825 

Letters generally are, I am persuaded you will admit that I ought to write 
less frequent, however I shall not fail to inform you of such Measures 
taken or seriously attempted to be taken in the new Congress as may seem 
in any manner to interest our State. With Sentiments of the most perfect 
Respect I have the Honour to be 

Dear Sir Your most obed't Serv't 

Hu Williamson 

971. Cyrus Griffin to the Governor of Virginia 
(Beverley Randolph). 1 

I am honored by your excellency's letter of the 13th of feby. only this 
morning. 

I did not understand that any person was appointed to come forward 
with the accounts of the State against the united States, or most certainly 
myself would not have been mentioned. 2 Colonel davies is man very proper 
to answer the purpose, and I think will be found extremely useful. 8 

The Board of Commissioners met on the 17th of January, and are now 
ready to act upon the business of their destination. 4 

I am favored also with the Returns of nine of the Representatives of 
Virginia enclosed by your excellency, which I shall deliver to Colonel 
White, 5 the only member at pr [e] sent from that state. 

There are only eight Senators and 18 Representatives assembled — a 
very unfortunate thing. 

Be so kind to accept the enclosed papers. 

March 9th, 1789. 

972. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 9th March 1789. 
Sir, 

On the 4th inst. according to appointment sundry Members of the new 
Congress viz eight Senators and fourteen of the House of Representatives 
met at the public Buildings in this City; Since that Time the Members of 
the old Congress have not attempted to form a House ; some of them are 
in the new Congress, the Remainder are chiefly gone Home. 2 

You will observe by the printed Journal that we have not, during the 
Winter, been able to form a Congress of seven States ; whence it has not 

[971] 1 Va. State Lib., Executive Papers; Cal. Va. State Papers, IV. 576. 

2 See no. 963, ante. 

3 This was Col. William Davies. He arrived in New York Apr. 22, and letters 
from him to the governor concerning his mission, Apr. 23, May 7, 22, are in Va. State 
Lib., Executive Papers. 

4 See nos. 957, 963, 970, ante ; cf. nos. 972, 976, 981, post. ' 

6 Alexander White. See Madison to Washington Mar. 5 in Writings, V. 327. 
[972] * Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia ; JV. C. State Recs., XXI. 533. 

2 See nos. 970, 971, ante, and no. 976, post. Cf. Madison to Washington Mar. 
19. Writings, V. 329. 



826 Continental Congress 

been in my Power to bring forward the Instruction which the last general 
Assembly of our State were pleased to give their Delegates. 3 It is true 
that seven States have been represented in Congress at one Time or an- 
other during the last three Months viz New Hampshire, Massachusets, 
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia and South Carolina but 
N : Hampshire N York and N Jersey never chanced to be present together. 
The attending Members in general to whom I communicated the Purport 
of our Instructions were of the Opinion that the Request of the State 
should be granted and if I had been so fortunate as to have a Collegue 
I have no Doubt but that we should have obtain'd full Permission for the 
State to deliver in the Remainder of its Claims. Whatever Inclination 
I may have had occasionally to borrow a Holyday I have it in my Power 
to assure you, that from the Time I received the Instructions of the State, 
I have not been absent from the Chamber of Congress a single day at the 
usual Time of meeting, lest the forming of a Congress should chance to be 
prevented and the Interest of the State suffer by such Absence. 

In case the Board of Commissioners shall refuse to receive any new 
Vouchers or Claims that may be offered by the State I shall think it my 
Duty to petition the new Congress on that Subject, but at present I do not 
think that we shall find any difficulty in having the whole of our Claims 
examined. 4 

I formerly took the Liberty to mention that the Eastern States had very 
large Claims for Bounties in the recruiting Service. I have lately ex- 
amined their Accounts and on some future Occasion shall give you the 
particulars. 

You will observe that the Members of the new Congress hitherto ar- 
rived are chiefly from the Eastward and I presume that a House will be 
formed and several Officers chosen before the Southern Members arrive. 
This may be the first of the distorted Effects to be expected from the 
Seat of Congress being far distant from the Center of the Union. 

973. The Secretary of Congress to the Secretary of the Wkstern 
Territory (WiNTHKOP Sargent). 1 

New York March nth, 1789. 
Sir, 

I have received your favor of the 15th Jany. together with your official 
communications containing Copies of the laws acts and public Records 
from the 9th July 1788 to 31st December inclusive. I presume you con- 
sider the transactions with the Indians as not being a part of " the public 
records of the district " or " of the proceedings of the Governor in his 
Executive department ", and therefore have omitted sending them. But 
as by the resolution of the 3d October 1787 from and after the 14th August 
last the powers duties and emoluments of the superintendant of Indian 

8 Presumably the instructions of Dec. 21, 1788, relative to the navigation of the 
Mississippi (N. C. State Recs., XXI. 509). 

* See nos. 957, 963, 970, 971, ante, 976, 981, post. 
[9731 1 Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book, p. 177 (addressed, " Winthrop 
Sargent Esqr. secy, to the Governor of the W. T."). 



March, 1789 827 

affairs are United with those of the Governour, and by the Resolution of 
the 5th of the same month October 1787 in consequence of his office as 
Governor he was directed to hold a Treaty with the Indians within the 
limits of the United states inhabiting the Country northwest of the Ohio ; 
and as the transaction with the Indians will be an important part of his 
duty I submit it to his and your consideration whether it will not be proper 
for the future to make them a part of the Records of the district. I have 
read attentively his honors letters to the Judges and am much pleased with 
them. I have examined the Original entry of the Ordinance for the gov- 
ernment of the territory of the United states Northwest of the river Ohio, 
and in the sentence " the governor and Judges or a majority of them " etca. 
there is a Comma after governor but none after Judges so that his honors 
conjecture is well founded, and his interpretation I apprehend right. The 
New Congress is not yet formed, the badness of the Roads having pre- 
vented the attendance of the Southern members. As soon as they are in 
capacity to proceed to the execution of business the laws which you have 
transmitted to me shall be laid before them. 2 

974. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States. 1 

Office of Secretary of Congress, 

March 18th, 1789. 
Sir, 

I have now the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed 
two Copies of the Thirteenth Volume which closes the Journal of the 
United States in Congress assembled. 

That the change which has been made with so much wisdom order and 
tranquility may answer the end proposed and promote and secure the 
happiness prosperity and glory of the Union is my most fervent prayer. 
I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect 

Your Excellency's Most obedient and Most Humble Servant 

Cha. Thomson 

975. Tench Coxe to James Madison. 1 
Dear Sir, 

I have this afternoon obtained from a friend of Col. Geo. Morgan a 
copy of his hand bill which was put into the hands of confidential people in 
N. Jersey and Pennsylvania for the purpose of procuring followers. 2 I 

2 For a list of the enclosures in Sargent's letter of Jan. 15, see Parker, Calendar 
of Papers relating to the Territories, p. 302. Governor St. Clair's letters to the Judges 
are dated July 18, 29, 30, Aug. 1, 7, Sept. 14, 1788. On May 2, 1789, Governor St. Clair 
transmitted to the president of the United States the Indian treaties of the preceding 
January, and these were communicated to the Senate by President Washington May 25. 
American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I. 5-10. 

[974] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 95; Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter- 
Book, p. 179 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., XI. 562. 
[975] ! Library of Congress, Madison Papers. 

2 See nos. 960, 961, ante. Madison sent a copy of the Morgan hand bill to Wash- 
ington Mar. 26 (Writings, V. 331; see also his letter to Washington Mar. 8, ibid., 
p. 328). Whether, in accordance with Coxe's request, he had given Jay a sight of the docu- 
ment does not appear; but he sent a "manuscript copy" to Jefferson (Mar. 29, ibid., 
P- 333)- 
59 



828 Continental Congress 

know your solicitude about the western Country, and have therefore en- 
closed you a copy, which after you have done with it be pleased to give to 
Mr. Jay when you have an op't'y. 

I am this day favored with yours from Virginia s and am happy to find 
that the favorable termination of the elections renders any answer to it 
unnecessary 

Philada. March 18th, 1789. 4 

976. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 23rd March, 1789. 
Sir, 

.... Hitherto I consider myself in the service of the State as a Mem- 
ber of Congress and shall continue so to do untill the New Government is 
in Operation, hence I claim the right of Franking Letters, 2 but in the 
meanwhile I attend diligently to the Board of Commissioners to see if pos- 
sible whether a thorough acquaintance with the Charges of other States 
cannot be of some use to us in the statement of our own. 8 .... 

•Madison's letter, from "Orange (Virga.) Feby. 16th '89", is in the Madison 
Papers, but is without address. As the letter is mainly a reply to Coxe's letter of Jan. 27 
(no. 959, ante) there can be no question that it is to Coxe. 

4 On the same day that this letter was written Coxe rendered his account for 
attendance in Congress, as follows (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Gratz Coll., M. O. C.) : 

" The State of Pennsylvania to Tench Coxe Dr. 
for seventeen days allowance as a Delegate in Congress from 16th Feby. to the 

5th March 1789 when I left New York at 45/ per diem 38. 5.0 

for Milage 95 miles at 6d. per mile is 

£40.12.6 
Add Milage return'g 2.07.6 



Amo't £43. 0.0 

Philada. March 18th, 1789." 

The allowance for return mileage and the total were added in the comptroller's office. 
The account is endorsed : " Exam'd and Settled Jno. Nicholson Compt'r Gen'ls 
Office March 19th 1789 " ; and " Read in Council March 20th, 1789 approved and an 
order drawn for £43.0.0. James Trimble for Charles Biddle Sec'ry ". 

[976PN. C. Hist. Comm., Governor's Letter-Book (copy); N. C. State Recs., XXI. 
538. 

2 See no. 970, note 5, ante. Williamson's election was in fact (as in the cases 
of several others), "for one year to commence on the first Monday in November 1 
(that is. from November, 1788, to November, 1789). 

8 See nos. 957, 963, 970-972, ante, and no. 081, post. In a further passage Wil- 
liamson alludes to a report of the death of the king of Spain and remarks: "If the King 
is dead we shall soon find other Measures pursued respecting the Mississippi. On thi> 
subject I have some information that I cannot venture to commit to paper with out 
a Cypher." 

In N. C. State Recs., XXI. 541, is a letter from Williamson to Governor Johnston, 
Mar. 30, respecting a conference which he had had with the French minister and the 
consul' general in consequence of an order promulgated by the French consul at Wilming- 
ton, requiring that all North Carolina vessels destined to French ports should clear from 
the port of Wilmington, where the consul resided. 



April, 1789 829 

977. Samuel Alleyne Otis to Nathan Dane. 1 

New York March 28, 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

Enclosed is a letter of some consequence to the parties and which I take 
the liberty to address to your care 2 

It is not a little wonderful that with all the zeal in favor of the New 
Government the members cannot be collected to administer it. The busi- 
ness was to have commenced 4th March and 24 days have elapsed without 
making a quorum, 8 nor do I think it will be effected before Tuesday or 
Wednesday of the next week. I can form no conjecture upon the plan of 
operations being an out door man, and of course debared from the secrets 
of the Cabinet. I should suppose however there was no great prospect of 
a Convention, and when such men as father Sherman says " try it first " 
do I much expect an early attempt at amendments. They are trying to 
kill Clinton politically but wont suceed. Here is Bobbe 4 in all his glory 
nor do I see any body disposed to eclipse it. 

I stand so good a chance to be elected Clerk of the Senate that if you 
was here to counterplot Charle and father Johnson I think I need not fear. 5 

Charle ridiculously enough has got himself chosen to go down to Genl. 
W. with information of his election. 6 

978. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris. 1 

New York April 7, 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

I cannot express the anxiety I feel on the determination I had taken to 
retire to private life while so many of my friends whom I love and es- 
teem express such an earnest desire that I should continue in a public 
line. I am afraid they rate my abilities too high. Sure I am they rate 
them much higher than I do myself and more than they deserve. But such 
as they are to shew that I am not unwilling to devote them to the public 
service, I will make this proposition: that the keeping of the great seal 
with the duties thereto annexed and to be annexed, and the custody and 

[977] x Library of Congress, Personal, Dane. 

2 There is no clue to the nature of the enclosure. 

3 For a circular letter sent out Mar. 11 by the senators in attendance to the 
absent members, see Life of Wingate, II. 282. A second circular letter of like purport 
was despatched on Mar. 18 {Annals of Congress, I. 15-16). See also Wingate to Timothy 
Pickering Mar. 25 (Life of Wingate, II. 229). 

4 Doubtless Robert Yates, who, though formerly of the anti-federalist party, 
had now become the federalist candidate against Clinton. See Bancroft, Hist, of U. $., 
VI. 467, and History of the State of New York, VI. 38-39. See no. 965, ante; cf. no. 
978, post. 

5 Otis was elected secretary of the Senate on Apr. 8 (Annals of Congress, I. 18). 
On Apr. 9 he wrote to John Langdon to express " the effusions of a grateful heart " 
(Letters . ... to Langdon, p. 92). 

6 It was not until Apr. 6 that Charles Thomson was chosen to notify General 
Washington of his election to the Presidency (ibid., p. 18), therefore this passage must 
have been written not earlier than the 6th. 

[978] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, II.; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collec- 
tions: Revolutionary Papers, I. 249. 



830 Continental Congress 

care of the papers which belonged to the late Congress be committed to me, 
this office to be made the depository of the acts laws and archives of Con- 
gress; that the same salary be continued to me which the late Congress 
granted me and my stile be Secretary of the Senate and of the United 
States or Congress ; and that besides necessary clerks, I be allowed a 
deputy, who if it be the pleasure of the Senate, may be nominated or 
appointed by themselves to do the ordinary business of the house, so that 
I may not be under the necessity of attending except on special occasions 
and when the great business of the Nation is under deliberation. If this 
proposition be approved by the Senate and acceptible I am ready to serve 
them to the utmost of my power, at least till the present government be 
organized and begin to take its due tone |~?] 2 If otherwise I must 
pursue my first determination and retire to the private walk but with an 
anxious wish and most earnest prayer that the measures of the present 
government may prove effectual to secure the tranquility and promote the 
happiness and glory of the United States. 

979. The Secretary of Congress to the President of tiii. United 

States. 1 

New York April _>4. 1789. 
Sir, 

I intended to have waited upon you in person and submited to your in- 
spection the enclosed report which I have prepared to send to the senate but 
by the interruption of visits I was not able to finish it until it was your time 
of receiving visits. I meant to have submitted to your consideration 
whither the words " however that " in the answer with which you were 
pleased to honor me might not be omitted. 

If your Excellency should see any part of the report which is excep- 
tionable or which you would wish altered and will permit me to visit you 
privately I will wait upon you at any time you will be pleased to fix.* 

2 Otis says in his letter of Jan. 12 (no. 955, attic) that Thomson had declined the 
office of clerk of the Senate, which it appears his friends had proposed to secure for him. 
and either the proposition which he made in this letter to Robert Morris was unac- 
ceptable, or else Otis had already secured sufficient support to determine his own election 
(see his letter of Mar. 28, no. 977, ante; cf. no. 983, note 4, post). On the day this 
letter was written Thomson took his departure for Mount Vernon. A letter written by 
him from Mount Vernon Apr. 14 to John Langdon, President of the Senate, informing 
him of his mission, is in N. H. State Papers, Xxl. 865. 

[979] ' Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 185. 

- This letter is addressed : " The President of the United States of America " 
and is marked, " Private ". The report alluded to is Thomson's report to the Senate 
upon his mission to Mount Vernon to notify General Washington of his election to the 
Presidency. The report is in American State Papers: Miscellaneous, vol. I., pp. 5-6, 
dated Apr. 24. A copy (or draft) is in the Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, vol. 
II. In the Annals of Congress, vol. I., p. 24 (Senate Proceedings), is the following 
record, under Saturday, April 25 : "A letter from Charles Thomson, Esq., dated the 
24th of April, 1789, directed to the President of the Senate, purporting his having 
delivered to General Washington the certificate of his being elected President of the 
United States, was read and ordered to be filed." As printed Washington's reply to 
Thomson at Mount Vernon does not contain the phrase " however that ". See also 
Washington's response to John Langdon. president pro l cm pore of the Senate. Writings 
(ed. Sparks), IX. 491. 



April, 1789 831 

980. The Secretary of Congress to the Governor of 
South Carolina (Charles Pinckney). 1 

New york April 27th, 1789. 
Sir, 

Before I received the favor of your letter of I had transmitted 

to you two sets of the Journal of Congress for 1788 one for the legislature 
the other for the Executive. My letter which accompanied them was dated 
the 1 8th of March, 2 and as there was no direct conveyance from this place 
I sent it to Philadelphia with a request to the Post master to forward it 
by the first Vessel from that port bound to Charleston under a Confidence 
that before this time you must have received them. I now send two Copies 
of the Journal for 1787 one for the Legislature the other for the executive 
branch of government. And to complete your own set I likewise send 
herewith the Journal for 1787 and 1788, and shall always be happy when 
I can have an opportunity of testifying the sincere esteem and respect 
with which I have the honor to be 
Sir 

Your most obedient and Most Humble servant 3 



981. Hugh Williamson to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Samuel Johnston). 1 

New York 27th April 1789. 
Dear Sir, 

With this you will receive Copies of the Laws of Sundry States which 
have been forwarded according to a Recommendation of Congress for 
the use of the Legislature of our State. I am not informed whether our 
State has returned like Copies of its Laws for the Information of the 
Legislatures of other States. 2 

On Thursday next, The President of the United States, G. Washington 
is to take the oath and enter upon the duties of his Office. The new Form 
of Government will then have commenced and my Privilege of franking 
Letters as a Member of Congress will probably be disputed. 8 I should 
then apply myself wholly to the Business of the Public Accounts but some 
Weeks should elaps before the Commissioners of the US can make any 
progress. One member of that Board has just taken his Seat in Congress 
as Representative from Georgia (Mr. Baldwin) and by a special Vote of 
Congress any two of the Board are not allowed to act unless the third is 
present. A third Commissioner must therefore be appointed by the Presi- 

[980] x Library of Congress, Secretary's Letter-Book (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 18B) 
inserted between pp. 178 and 179. 

2 No. 974, ante. 

3 This letter, which is in the writing of John Fisher, is endorsed : " Copy of a 
letter from Charles Thomson Esqr. to His Excellency Charles Pinckney Governor of 
the State of South Carolina dated April 27th 1789". 

[981] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; N. C. State Recs., XXI. 552. 

2 See no. 949, ante. 

3 See nos. 957, 963, 970-972, 976, ante. 



832 Continental Congress 

dent and he is not authorised to make such appointment until Congress 
shall have taken measures for that Purpose and as the Revenue System 
engages all their Attention at present some time must necessarily pass 
before the third Commissioner can be ready to act, 4 in the mean while I 
purpose to assist N. Carolina and collect some Evidence of which I think 
we may avail ourselves considerably in the Settlement of our accounts. 
I am the more convinced of the usefulness of such Evidence from the 
Rules that the board of Commissioners have already laid down for their 
general Government respecting the Claims of particular States. How- 
ever attentive I have been to the Board of Commissioners you observe that 
I have hitherto considered myself a Member of Congress, by which I might 
the better avail myself to any Opportunity to serve the State by having 
access to all the public Offices etc 8 



982. The Secretary of Congress to Sundry Printers. 1 

(Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress 

May 1st, 1789. 
Sir, 

I request that you will transmit your account for newspapers to the first 
of May, and give directions to Your correspondent in N York to receive 
the balance due, and that you will please to send no more newspapers to 
this office after that date. 

To Mr. Daniel Fowle Portsmouth N Hampshire. forwarded by mail. 

Messrs. Adams and Nourse Boston do 

Solomon Southwick New Port Rhode Island do 

Josiah Meigs N Haven Connecticut do 

Dunlap and Claypoole Philadelphia do 

Frederic Craig and Co. Wilmington Delaware do 

William Goddard Baltimore Maryland do 

Mrs. Ann Timothy Charleston S : Carolina do 

James Johnstone Savannah Georgia do 

by Mr. Jeri Cuyler. 

♦William Davies, the Virginia agent, likewise wrote of this obstacle to the 
commission's proceeding with its busness (see no. 971, note 3, ante). A letter from 
Williamson to Governor Johnston, Aug. 12, with regard to the board of commissioners 
of accounts, is in N. C. State Recs., XXI. 560. 

8 In a further passage Williamson discusses, from the point of view of its effect 
on North Carolina, the revenue system then before Congress. The measure had been 
introduced by Madison in the House of Representatives on Apr. 8 and was steadily under 
consideration until May 18. See also Wingate to John Pickering Apr. 27, in Life of 
Wingate, II. 298. A letter from George Thatcher to John Waite, May 17, discusses some 
aspects of the revenue bill. MSS. of William D. Ely of Providence. 

[98a] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 189; ibid., Secretary's 
Letter- Book, p. 179. 



May, 1789 833 

983. Charles Thomson, Statement. 1 

[May? 1789.] 2 
Having seen, to my inexpressible satisfaction, the rights and liberty of 
this country asserted and vindicated ; its independence acknowledged and 
secured ; peace restored and the national government amended so as to give 
a pleasing prospect of cementing and strengthening the union of the states, 
and of ensuring the enjoyment of those blessings which have been pur- 
chased with so much blood and treasure, I resolved to return to private 
life. To this cause which is now brought to so happy an issue a great part 
of my life has been devoted, without any other motive than an ardent love 
of liberty. When the dispute was fast verging to the decision of arms, I 
took the station to which I was called, without any solicitation on my part, 
by the unanimous choice of the Congress which met in 1774, and con- 
tinued therein through all the trying scenes of the war down to this happy 
period. But after executing the duties of my station to the utmost of my 
abilities with integrity and fidelity for almost 15 years under the immediate 
eyes of the delegates from the several states and experiencing from them 
and from my country continual and constant proofs of their approbation 
and confidence ; and after being honored by the concurrence of both houses 
of this present Congress, with an appointment of the Senate to wait upon 
his Exy gen Washington with the information of his being elected to the 
office of President of the United States of America, and ordered to deliver 
him the dispatches committed to my care containing the certificate of his 
election and to accompany him to this place ; 3 and this under an idea sug- 
gested to me that this was required of me as being still in the service of the 
United States and the fittest to perform this duty, I cannot conceal that I 
was struck with surprize at being passed by unnoticed in the arrangement 
made by a comee. who I understand were appointed to take order respect- 
ing the ceremonial for his inauguration while some other officers under the 
late government were invited to attend on that solemn occasion. 4 To what 

[983 J 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 It is presumed that this statement was written shortly after the ceremonial of 
Apr. 30. 

3 See no. 979, ante. 

4 For the arrangements by the Senate and House of Representatives for the 
reception and inauguration of President Washington see Annals of Congress, I. 18-29 
(Senate Proceedings Apr. 5-30), and ibid., I. 121, 143-144, 151, 191-192, 200, 207-208, 232 
(House Proceedings, Apr. 13-30). Among those given places in the ceremonial were 
the secretary for foreign affairs, the secretary at war, the members of the board of 
treasury, and the postmaster general. For a descriptive account of the series of events 
see Rufus W. Griswold, The Republican Court, pp. 113- 146. See also the Journal of 
William Maclay, pp. 1-10. Under Apr. 30 Maclay records : " Mr. Read rose and called 
the attention of the Senate to the neglect that had been shown Mr. Thomson, late Sec- 
retary. Mr. Lee rose to answer him, but I could not hear one word he said." Richard 
Henry Lee was chairman of the Senate committee in charge of the ceremonial. Under 
July 13 (p. 106) Maclay records a conversation with Thomson on the preceding day : 

" I forgot to minute yesterday that, late in the afternoon, Charles Thompson visited me. 
We had much chat of the political kind. He showed a great disposition to go into the 
field of the President's power. He was clearly of opinion that the President ought to 
remove all officers, etc. Indeed, he said so much on this subject that I had like to have 
entertained a suspicion that he came on purpose to sound, or rather prepare, me on the 
subject. I agreed to sundry of his observations, at the same time dissented, in plain but 



834 Continental Congress 

cause this has been owing I am altogether a stranger. I have heard it said 
that the comee. did not consider me in office. But how does this accord 
with the conduct of the members of both houses who induced me to under- 
take the late journey ? Or by what authority could the comee. undertake 
to determine who are in or who out of office ? Is the custody of the records 
of the late Congress and the keeping of the great seal no office ? Or am I dis- 
charged from my oath of office and these still left with me? No other 
reason that I have heard being assigned for this arbitrary arrangement of 
the comee. it is some consolation that it was not an act of the two houses — 
that, if I am rightly informed, it gave general dissatisfaction and that the 
circumstance of the houses not knowing it in time alone prevented its being 
rectified. But as these circumstances are not generally known and the 
act of the comee. was public, may I not hope that something will be done 
to guard against its effects and that it may not lesson that esteem of my 
fellow citizens which I have so long enjoyed and which by a faithful and 
conscientious discharge of the duties enjoined me I have endeavoured to 
preserve as my chief reward? 5 For with regard to the emoluments of 
office, they have had little weight with me, nor have I derived advantages 
from them. In my private fortune I have not only suffered in common 
with my fellow citizens by the casualties of the times and the calamities of 
the war, but have almost wholly neglected it to attend to the duties of my 
office. My necessary expences while in the public employ have consider- 
ably exceeded my Salary so that after now almost fifteen years service my 
private fortune is lessened from what it was at the beginning of that 
period. But of this I do not complain, nor do I mention it with a view to 
any compensation. All I ask is that Justice may be done to my public 
character and that as soon as convenient I may be honorably released from 
the charge of the books, records papers and archives of the late Congress 
which are still in my custody — from that of the Great Seal the Keeping of 
which was one of the duties of my Office — And the seal of the admiralty 
which was committed to my care when that board was dissolved. Thus 
standing fair in the esteem and confidence of my fellow citizens which I 
highly prize, I shall return to private life with only an anxious wish for 
the prosperity of my country and a fervent prayer that the measures of 

not pointed terms, from some other things. Perhaps this is the best way, on the whole, 
for an independent man to act. Honesty, on the whole, is the best policy. I really feel 
for Mr. Thompson's situation. A man who has been the graphic faculty of the old 
Congress, the hand and pen of that body from their first organization, and who — I feel 
a kind of certainty of the fact — wishes to die in an eminent office, would not suffer his 
friends to continue him Secretary of the Senate, and his enemies have taken advantage 
of it and declared him out of office, and mean to keep him so. It was certainly bad policy 
of him to refuse the offer of his friends. The political door is harder to be opened than 
any other if once it is thrown in a man's face." 

As for Otis, Maclay was anything but complimentary of his work as sccrctar> 
our Secretary, makes a most miserable hand at it. The grossest mistakes made on our 
minutes, and it cost us an hour or two to rectify them" (Apr. 25, p. 2). Later remarks 
in his Journal are even more severe, including such epithets as " liar ", " villain ", 
"roguery" (see especially pp. 135-144, 176, 187, 196, 380-382). 

8 These questions suggest that Thomson was addressing this as a letter to one 
of his friends, possibly Robert Morris (see his letter of Apr. 7 to Morris, no. 978, attic). 
Cf. nos. 086, 987, post. 



May, 1789 835 

the present government may be planned with wisdom and so conducted as 
to prove effectual to secure the tranquility and promote the happiness and 
glory of the United States. 6 

984. Charles Thomson to the President of the United States. 1 

New York May 19, 1789. 
Sir, 

I intended to have done myself the honor of waiting on you this even- 
ing but the dampness of the weather prevents my going abroad I there- 
fore take the liberty of enclosing my opinion on the paragraph in the 
constitution which you were pleased to mention; the result of my confer- 
ence with Mr. Jay on the subject of sea letters ; and the lights I have re- 
ceived by examining the laws of Pensylvania and Massachusetts touch- 
ing the Naval Officer and the collector of the customs or duties 2 

985. Charles Thomson to John Vining. 1 

[May 20, 1789.] 2 
Mr. Thomson presents his compliments to Mr. Vining and hopes that 
for obvious reasons Mr. V will excuse his not entering into a discussion 
of the subject mentioned in his note, more especially when it" is considered 
that the complex nature of the general government of the United States, 
the variety of interests comprehended under it, the states of which it is 
composed, the necessity of reconciling them one to another and to the gen- 
eral government so as to form one united nation, not to mention the In- 
dians who live within the territories of the United States, and who have 
rights and claims which must be attended to, cannot fail to suggest to the 
enlightened body of which Mr. Vining is a member, that the care of our 

6 The phraseology of this last sentence is very similar to the closing remarks 
in his letter to Robert Morris, Apr. 7. 

[984] x Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 207. 

2 Thomson's opinion on the subject of sea letters is ibid., pp. 199-205. This is 
one of several ways in which the office of Secretary of Congress continued to function. 
On May 16 Thomson sent to William Samuel Johnson a resume of the proceedings of 
Congress with regard to the court for the trial of piracies and felonies (Library of 
Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., Misc.; ibid., no. 49, f. 191, draft). For Thomson's own 
view of the continuance of his office, see no. 983, ante, and nos. 985-987, post. 

[985] x Library of Congress, Charles Thomson, Misc. 

2 Thomson's letter is written on a blank leaf of the following note from Vining : 

" Mr. Vining presents his respects to Mr. Thomson — and takes the Liberty, if his 
Leisure will admit of it, to request him to give his Idea of a Domestick Department, and 
the Duties necessary to be comprehended within such an office. Mr. Vining would not 
have troubled Mr. Thomson, upon this occasion, but the Time allow'd him for the con- 
sideration of this Business will necessarily be very limited. 
Wednesday 12 o'clock." 

On May 19 the House of Representatives went into committee of the whole on the 
subject of executive departments, and in the course of the discussion Vining suggested 
the addition of a " Home Department ", but later in the day made a motion for the 
addition of what he then called a " Domestic Department ". He consented to withdraw 
his motion " for the present ", but on July 23 he introduced a resolution for the adoption 
of a Home Department (Annals of Congress, I. 370, 371, 666-670). Respecting an 
earlier effort to create a home department see no. 94, ante. 



836 Continental Congress 

domestic affairs and the preserving peace and harmony at home is of as 
much importance and may require as much time, attention and abilities as 
any of the departments which have been brought before them. 

986. Charles Thomson to the Board of Treasury. 1 

Gentlemen, ^ ** l >*9- 

I have seen a paper in the words following viz 

Sr. I have examined an accot. Chas. Thomson Esqr. Secretary to the late 
Congress commencing, April and ending the 30th June 1789 * and find that 
he charges his own Salary as " Secretary and the salaries of Roger Alden as 
depty. Secretary, Benjamin Bankson and John Fisher as clerks for the above 
time to amount of Dollrs. 1075 ditto pay of James Mathews from 1 May 
1788 to 1 March 1789 for taking care of the Secretarys office 40 Amount 
of sundry contingent account Dollrs. 34 24/76 deduct amount of two charges 
in McLean's 5/ equal to 60 Dollars 3354 Dollars 114 51/90 N [B] 
Mr. Thomson hath been allowed his salary as secretary under the late Congress 
to the 31 March 1789 but as he hath not been recognised by the present 
Congress there does not appear any authority for the admission of his charges 
the propriety of the rejection of which I beg leave to submit to consideration 

(signed) J no. Woods ide elk of Acct. 
Approved J. Hardy acct. 
To Joseph Hardy Esqr. 
accountant 

I desire to know what this imports. Is my account hereby rejected. 
The clerk submits the propriety of rejecting it to the accountant for this 
reason because he says "As he hath not been recognised by the present Con- 
gress there does not appear any authority for the admission of his 
charges " The accountant under writes Approved. What is approved ? 
The Clerks submitting the propriety of rejecting the account to considera- 
tion? or is the rejection itself approved? If the latter I beg leave to ask 
are the accounts of the officers in the other offices under the late Congress 
passed? if they be; have those Officers been recognisd by the present Con- 
gress ? Why then the distinction. The truth is all the Offices and the papers 
are in the care and custody of the respective officers under the late Con- 
gress and must be so regularly till they are relieved, and discharged of their 
trust. 8 And the officers have done such business in their respective offices 

[986] 1 Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, vol. II. 
»C/. no. 083, ante. 

• Accompanying this letter in the Thomson Papers is the following com- 
munication : 

Treasury of the United Statks 
Register's Office 2d June 1789. 
"These are to Certify, That the Hona: Charles Thomson Esqr. Secretary of the 
United States in Congress Assembled hath been paid by the United States the sum of 
Thirty two thousand one hundred and sixty nine dollars sixty four ninetieths in Specie, 
or the value thereof (as more fully appears by the following statement of particulars,) 
being for his salary as allowed by Congress, from the 9th May 1776 to 11 Ma'ch 1789. 

Joseph Nourse: Register. 
Dollars 32. 169 64/00." 

Following Nourse's communication is his " statement of particulars ", to which 
Thomson has appended his own statement of his salary from February, 1778, to April, 



July, 1789 837 

as they considered themselves authorised to do. Such I presume has been 
the case with others and such has been the case with respect to the Office 
of the Secretary of Congress. But whether this office is to be distinguished 
from the rest and the officers therein rejected the payments of their salaries 
while thus detained is submitted to your judgment 

987. Charles Thomson to the President of the United States. 1 

Sir, 

Having had the honor of serving in quality of Secretary of Congress 
from the first meeting of Congress in 1774 to the present time, a period 
of almost fifteen years, and having seen in that eventful period, by the in- 
terposition of divine Providence the rights of our country asserted and 
vindicated, its independence declared acknowledged and fixed, peace and 
tranquility restored and in consequence thereof a rapid advance in arts, 
manufactures and population, and lastly a government established which 
gives well grounded hopes of promoting its lasting welfare and securing 
its freedom and happiness, I now wish to return to private life. 

With this intent I present my self before you to surrender up the charge 
of the books, records and papers of the late Congress which are in my 
custody and deposited in rooms of the house where the legislature as- 
semble, and to deliver into your hands the Great Seal of the federal 
Union, the keeping of which was one of the duties of my Office, and the 
seal of the Admiralty which was committed to my care when that board 
was dissolved. 

Before I retire I beg leave to recommend to your favour Mr. Roger 
Alden who was appointed, by the late Congress, deputy Secretary and 
whom I have found an able and faithful assistant, and Mr. John Fisher 
who served as a clerk in the office for several years with diligence and 
fidelity and who alone remains unemployed. 

July 23, 1789. 2 

988. Charles Thomson to the President of the United States. 1 

Sir, 

I cannot find words to express the feelings of my heart, on the receipt 
of your favour of yesterday, at this repeated instance of your goodness. 

1781, and the receipts, with allowance for depreciation " By the rule established by the 
Assembly of Pensylvania ", making a total of 4,246.29 dollars " Reed, in the course of 
5 years viz_ from May 1776 to May 1781 which is not quite equal to 850 dollars per an." 
[987] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 215. 

2 Washington's reply, July 24, accepting Thomson's resignation and expressing 
high praise of his services and his patriotism, is in Library of Congress, Thomson Papers, 
II.; Writings (ed. Sparks), X. 16; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, 

I. 250. For this record the essential part of the letter is as follows : " You will be 
pleased, Sir, to deliver the books, records and papers of the late Congress, the Great Seal 
of the Federal Union, and the Seal of the Admiralty, to Mr. Roger Alden, the late Deputy 
Secretary of Congress, who is to take charge of them until further directions shall be 
given." See no. 988, post. 

[988] * Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 219; ibid., Thomson Papers, 

II. (with Alden's receipt appended) : N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Revolutionary 
Papers, I. 251. 



838 Continental Congress 

I shall ever retain a grateful remembrance of this and of your condescen- 
sion to me on a former occasion when your presence administered a balm 
to my wounded spirit. 

From the love and veneration I bear and have continually felt for you, 
and the light in which I have always viewed you as raised up by Providence 
to be the Saviour and father of your country I freely confess I should 
have been highly gratified in devoting myself to the public service under 
your administration. But by attentively observing and weighing circum- 
stances and occurrences it appeared to me to be the will of God that I should 
return to private life. Under this impression, though I wished not merely 
to submit, but to submit with cheerfulness, I own I felt an uneasiness at 
the circumstance you mention and which you are pleased to say you hove to 
regret that the period of your coming again into public life should be 
exactly that in which I am to retire from it; but I had this consolation 
that you were sensible and from what had occurred the world must be 
convinced and know that my retiring does not spring from your disap- 
proval of my past conduct or my unwillingness to serve under you. 

I thank you for the testimonial you have given in my favour and shall 
ever prize it next to the consciousness of having done my duty to my coun- 
try to the utmost of my knowledge and abilities. 

Agreeably to your desire I have delivered to Mr. Roger Alden the books, 
records and papers of the late Congress and enclose here with his receipt." 
He will wait upon you to receive the Great Seal of the federal Union and 
the Seal of the Admiralty which I had the honor of delivering into your 
hands, to thank you for this mark of your favour and to execute any 
orders you shall please to give him. 

I know your goodness will excuse the liberty I took in recommending to 
your favour those who had remained with me to the last, and I beg you to 
believe that it was done without a wish that you should deviate from that 
line of conduct which I know you have marked out with wisdom and which 
I am sure you will pursue with steadiness in discharging the great trust 
reposed in you. 

New York July 25, 1789. 

2 Following is Alden's receipt (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 49, f. 223) : 

" I acknowledge to have received of Charles Thomson late Secretary of Congress the 
books, records and papers of the late Congress which were in his custody, and which 
are deposited in rooms in the house where the Legislature of the United States now 
Assemble. And agreeably to the request of the President of the United States of 
America take charge of the same until farther directions shall be given. 

Roger Alden 
New York July 25th, 1789." 



SUPPLEMENT, 1783-1784 

Since the publication of this series was begun letters of members have 
from time to time been obtained too late for inclusion in the volumes to 
which they appertained, and it was once the hope that these letters might 
be embodied in a supplement to the final volume. This volume has how- 
ever been swollen to more than normal proportions by letters of its own 
period, with the result that only by severe excisions could any supple- 
ment at all be included. The letters that follow are all of the period of 
volume VII., and those of 1784 are especially essential to complete the 
record of that prime episode of the year, the experiment of a Committee 
of the States. 

989. David Howell to Thomas Carder Hazard. 1 

Princeton, August 26, 1783. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Massachusetts State has presented a memorial to Con- 
gress against the commutation of half -pay and against the high salaries 
of the civil list of Congress. They speak a plain language, as plain as 
they spoke to the British Court. They observe that they fear that in the 
resolve for commutation Congress did not sufficiently attend to the public 
good, the rules of equity, or to the spirit of the Confederation. That such 
high salaries do not agree with the republican principles, which the people 
of that State inherit from their ancestors. And that for these reasons 
they have withheld their assent to the Impost. Why did they not first 
grant the impost and then remonstrate against high salaries ? 2 It is in 
contemplation, at least with some of us to reduce the civil list in number, 
as well as salaries. Two Ministers, at the most, would be sufficient to 
reside in Europe, with some Consuls in the principle commercial States. 
Necessity, should the impost not be granted, will compel Congress into 
economical measures (and I am sorry to give it as my opinion that noth- 
ing else will) for they will not have money at command ; the grants of the 
States being strictly appropriated to pay the debts of the U. States. And 
while the States retain the command of their own purses, Congress will 
find themselves under the necessity of paying some little attention to their 
wishes ; otherwise would it be, should Congress be vested with power to 
collect and appropriate a great and permanent revenue. 

By late letters from So. Carolina it appears that their Gen. Assembly 
are now sitting, that there is no danger of their complying with the impost 
etc. and agreeably to the recommendation of Congress. They are ready, 
say they, to pay their quota agreeably to confederation; but they insist 
on a separate credit for all the money they pay. It still remains uncer- 
tain what Virginia will do. Maryland, New Jersey, etc. have partially com- 

[989] * Brown Univ. Lib. (copy). 

2 See vol. VII., nos. 291, 329, 344, 348, 355, 376, 388. 839 



840 Continental Congress 

plied; but such compliance is nugatory, for the resolves say that every 
tittle must be complied with, that you must drink the whole of the bitter 
cup, even to the very dregs. A General compliance, I believe, is already 
dispaired of by the most sanguine advocates of administration: and in 
consequence certain gentlemen look as we say, somewhat chop fallen. It 
is given out that nothing but a general concession will bring us right. 
Queer, have not late measures a great tendency, on that principle to reduce 
us to order ? 3 Measures are in train to enable the Loan officers to issue 
certificates for interest due on L. O. certificates and other liquidated debts 
due in the respective states, which certificates are to be receivable in pay- 
ment of the Quota on the requisition of the 4th of Sept. last for one year's 
interest. Also that officers liquidate all outstanding certificates agreeable 
to the Continental Scale and issue new certificates in their stead. 4 It is 
also ordered that the Superintendant of Finance lay before Congress an 
estimate of interest to become due in 1784 to the end that Congress may 
make another requisition for interest, on constitutional grounds, this will, 
I hope, give a fatal blow to the second impost as the requisition of the 4th 
of Sept. last did to the first. The interest ought to be paid, and if it can be 
paid on constitutional principles, the public creditors will be contented. 
Every opposition seems to be given to certain gentlemen to attempt to pay 
our debts unless it is done precisely in their way. Viz. it must be collected 
by a penal ordinance enacted by Congress and by Continental officers situ- 
ated in the several States (to support the national dignity) and sent to 

Philadelphia (to be counted over and pocketed by ) and then sent 

back again, if any may be spared, to the several States to pay the very 
men who paid the tax in the first instance. It is easy to see the tendency 
of this innovation on our Constitution ; and I cannot but fully confide 
that the good sense of the States will revolt at a measure so replete with 
chicanery, nonsense and abuse. I cannot but consider it as a special inter- 
position of Divine Providence in favour of the Liberties of this Country 
that Congress should be driven out of Philadelphia at this juncture. 8 The 
atmosphere of the City is unfriendly to Liberty. They speak great swell- 
ing words of vanity in their address to Congress; but I am told it is fact 
that they were the last to favour the Independence of the U.S. and I know 
it to be fact that their contribution to means, money, and specific have been 
the lowest in the Union, true it is they have loaned much ; but to good 
advantage and for which we are to pay them through the nose. It will l>o 
found too, on examination that the State of Pennsylvania has ree'd more 
out of the public Treasury than perhaps any other State and that tlu-y 
have drawn immense sums into their coffers by the residence of Congr 
among them. 

Matters are taking a favorable turn in sundry respects since Congn 
have been in this place. We seem to be emancipated from the bondage 
and diction of a certain office. I cannot but hope the plan laid for Giving 

•With regard to Rhode Island's attitude toward the impost measure (Apr. 18, 
1783) see ibid., passim (index, Rhode Island, imposts). 
4 See ibid., no. 348, note 6. 
8 See ibid., nos. 227-235, and passim ; cf. no. 336. 



August, 1783 841 

a tone to our federal government, as gentlemen chose to express them- 
selves will be discomfitted. For my part, I like well the tone in Confedera- 
tion, and hope the free tone of that important instrument may never be 
altered for the tone of Tyranny. 

The situation and air in this little village are highly agreeable to me as 
well as to many others. Several of the Southern Gentlemen have it in con- 
templation to purchase seats here. It is even called the Montpelier of 
America. We shall at least stay here till seven states can agree upon another 
place, which will not I presume soon take place. There are several con- 
siderations in favour of establishing this place as the permanent residence 
of Congress. It is nearly in the center of the population and wealth of 
the U. States. It is situated at an equal distance betwixt the two great 
cities of Philadelphia and New York. In a place of safety; as one or the 
other of those places must first fall into the hands of an enemy before they 
could penetrate here. The State of N. Jersey as subsisting by agriculture 
and having no great marts for trade, can never be very wealthy and of 
course will longest preserve a simplicity of manners and republican prin- 
ciples ; for wealth begets luxury, luxury corrupts, corruption and a general 
depravity of manners fatal to the freedom of any country. N. Jersey being 
a small State cannot extend a dangerous influence into the public counsels ; 

the effects of which we have sadly experienced in the City of . pray 

be so kind as to favour me with your sentiments at large on the subject 
of the permanent residence of Congress. October, as you know, is ap- 
pointed for the determination of that important question. I hope you will 
stimulate my other friends to write me. I am ready to answer any letters 
I may receive, and to give any information in my power. I write fre- 
quently, but receive few answers. Queer, do my friends know that their 
letters would come to me on free cost ? It is necessary that I should know 
in order to conform to the wishes of my Constituents ; and I can say with 
great truth that I came here to serve them and not myself. 

General Washington has lately been in the northward as the papers must 
have informed you. His object was partly to avoid the disagreeable situa- 
tion in which he was; without a command, harrassed by daily applica- 
tions, without the means of granting any requests to his suffering and 
brave troops, and partly to survey the theatre of some of the most brilliant 
events during the war ; but chiefly to make the necessary arrangements for 
taking possession of the British Posts on our northern frontier, as soon as 
they could be evacuated. Baron Steuben is gone to Canada to demand the 
posts, and to execute the necessary orders in that affair. It is thought 
necessary by many to keep up some garrison on those frontiers for the 
present; especially as no peace is yet concluded with the Indian nations 
who have joined the British in the late war. The Six Nations, or those of 
them who have been in arms against us, are anxious to make peace. The 
Oneidas, and Canugas have in their behalf sent a belt and a talk to Gen- 
eral Schuyler at Saratoga, who has laid their application before Congress. 
The General in the meantime has written them a friendly answer. He ad- 
vises them immediately to restore to us all prisoners in their hands, to send 
four or five Sachems, with as many warriors of each nation, to attend a 



842 Continental Congress 

council fire at such place as he shall appoint etc. The General is for making 
peace with them and suffering them to live on their own lands. 

The Commander-in-chief was lately requested to attend on Congress as 
soon as might be convenient after his return from the Northward. He 
arrived in this place last Saturday. He was welcomed by the Inhabitants, 
by the display of colors and the firing of thirteen cannon. He has read 
an address from this Town and its vicinity, and the President and faculty 
of the College, to which he returned a very suitable answer. Congress was 
desirous of conferring with the General on the peace establishment in con- 
templation as well as on the Subject of Indian affairs. 8 

You ought to be informed that a report now lies on our Table recom- 
mending an ample military establishment to be kept up in time of peace. 
This has met with obstruction. The State of Rhode Island is not willing 
to establish a chain of forts to protect the western settlements of Virginia 
and other States against the Indians ; which settlements are on lands which 
of right should belong to the U.S., and to protect N. York in the fur trade, 
etc. Others states join us in this sentiment. We maintain that the Confed- 
eration gives Congress no power to make any military establishment in 
time of peace; however desirable such power might be, and that, if it be 
necessary for Congress, it is to be asked of the States. But a difficulty 
arises; if Congress have power to establish an army of 500, they may of 
5,000 men ; they, being the only judges of the force necessary to answer the 
purpose. So that they may at any time increase their standing army to a 
size dangerous to the particular states and employ such army to obtain 
additional powers or grants from the States. Especially if they should 
also be vested with the power to levy, collect, and appropriate a permanent 
revenue in addition to that of raising men ; for these two powers, viz. that 
of raising men at their pleasure, and paying them without the yearly grants 
of the people, being both united in one body, would render that body 
dangerous to the freedom of the particular States; and in time however 
good and virtuous the present members of Congress may be suppo 
that body might degenerate into lordly aristocrats. 

The Gentlemen who are most sanguine for this military establishment in 
time of peace, have also been most sanguine for inviting the General here, 
and for conferring with the General on these heads. If they imagine him 
to be in favour of their plan, I hope they may find themselves disappointed 
I have ever reposed the utmost confidence in the General's patriotism 
well as in his military abilities. His circular letter, I confess, has alarmed 
me extremely. He has therein lent the advocates of the full influ- 
ence of his name and character. Such an interference in civil matters, I 
did not expect. It may be some Gentlemen expect to get the Sunshine of 
the General's name also, to a peace establishment. In this I hope they will 
fail ; but should they succeed in this manoeuver as in the other, I shall only 
lament that the greatest man in the world, should be left to give such evi- 
dence of his being but a man. In military measures, I bow down to the 
General ; but when he steps from that ground, I consider him only as a 

a See ibid* nos. 309-312. 3*7> 327, 332, 333, 348. 



August, 1783 843 

citizen : and whatever reverence I may always feel for that name, so dear 
to me, I shall take the liberty to [criticise?] his opinions as frankly as I 
would count money after my Father, and should I find him wrong, I dare 
say that all good men will applaud my caution. 7 

This day having been previously appointed for a private audience with 
his Excellency, he came into the town betwixt 11 and 12 from an house 
about five miles off, which had been previously engaged for him during 
his stay with us. At about 12 o'clock he was introduced into the room 
where Congress was sitting, being the College library, by two members of 
Congress, and conducted to a chair near, and on the right hand of the 
President. Agreeably to the established Etiquette the members kept their 
Seats without any gestures of Salutation, either on the Generals entering 
or leaving the room. The President sat in the same manner, and covered. 
A short and suitable address was read to his Excellency by the President 
sitting, and covered, the General standing and uncovered, to which his 
Excellency returned a proper answer, and was then reconducted to the 
door. Congress then adjourned, the door was thrown open, and the Gen- 
eral, his two aides, General du Portail, Colonel Ternant [?], 8 etc., entered 
the room and received the compliments and cordial congratulations of the 
members of Congress. The members rising from their seats, walking the 
floor, and joining in promiscuous conversation with their visitants. It 
was now about one o'clock and the President informed the members that 
the General was going to his house, and that their company would be 
agreeable : whereupon the company filed off in parties and walked to the 
President's house about half a mile, and spent an hour very agreeably in 
company with the General and his suite. The General and his suite, then 
returned to his quarters, and the members of Congress to their Lodgings 
to dinner, it being betwixt 2 and 3 o'clock P.M. You will see the Presi- 
dent's address and the General's answer, as well as these above mentioned, 
in the public papers, to which I must refer you not having copies. 

Sir Guy Carleton has lately informed Congress that he has received 
positive orders to evacuate New York ; but that he is under the necessity 
of providing for the Security of the refugees, who daily increase, on ac- 
count of the threatening publications in the Country. That being under 
the necessity of providing more transports to convey them to a place of 
Security than he expected, the intended evacuation will be thereby retarded 
unless the fears of the refugees should be happily abated by the temperate 
proceedings of Congress, or of the States. Several members of Congress 
highly blame the proceedings of the people against the return of the refu- 
gees and you will soon see an earnest recommendation to the States to 
comply with the articles of the treaty in that respect. But (by the by) 
we do not expect it will have any effect, or that the refugees will return. 9 

7 With regard to Washington's circular letter see ibid., nos. 259 (note 2), 262, 
279. Concerning the peace establishment see ibid., passim (index, Army, peace estab- 
lishment). 

8 The copy reads, "General du Portair, Colonel Annaut, etc.", but the latter 
name is doubtless a copyist's error. 

9 See ibid., nos. 327, 330-335- 34i. 352. 361, 400, 448 (note 2). 
60 



844 Continental Congress 

990. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 
Committee of the States (Samuel Hardy). 1 

Philadelphia June 20. 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

Pursuant to the Orders of Congress I prepared three commissions for 
our Ministers for Negotiating treaties with the commercial powers of 
Europe to be used if necessary one empowering them to negotiate addi- 
tional treaties of Commerce with France, conformable to the instructions 
given. Another to do the same with the United Netherlands and a third 
for the like purpose with Sweden. 2 These I forwarded yesterday together 
with a duplicate of the Instructions given 30 May and 29 October 1783, 
the Answer of Congress of 29 Oct to the letter from the Burgomasters and 
Senate of the imperial free city Hamburg. The acts of 1 Nov. 1783 
respect'g Capt Jones and the farmers genl. of France the Act of 16 March 
1784 on the letter of 1 Novr. and 25 Deer, from Doct Franklin, the in- 
structions of the 7 and 11 of last month and those given the 3 instant. 
which comprehend the whole business now before them. And for their 
further information I have forwarded to them a copy of the Journal of 
last session of Congress up to 28 May and a newspaper containing the 
Ordinance for putting the treasury into Commission and the appointment 
and powers of the Committee of the States. I shall next proceed to revise 
and arrange the secret Journal, agreeably to the Order of Congress and 
hope to have this work perfected or at least a considerable progress made 
therein before the next meeting of Congress 

Enclosed you have a copy of the letters from Mr. Franklin and Mr. 
Laurens and an extract from that of Mr. Jay as far as it related to the 
public. 8 

Please to present my dutiful respects to the Committee of the States. 

P.S. The Minister of F [ranee] embarks to Morrow 

991. Francis Dana to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

Annapolis, June 28, 1784. 
My Worthy Friend, 

I write you at this time not because I have any thing important to com- 
municate to you, but that you may know I have not, and be persuaded that 
I have not forgotten you. 2 The day of the adjournment of the committee 

[990] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

* See the Journals, May 7, II, June 3, 1784. A letter from Hardy to Thomson 
June 11 is in vol. VII. of this series, no. 622. 

8 Presumably Franklin's letter of Mar. 31, announcing the ratification of the 
treaty {Works, ed. Bigelow, VIII. 462), Laurens's letter of Mar. 28 (Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Corr., VI. 790), and Jay's letter to Thomson Apr. 7 (Correspondence of Jay, III. 
124; N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 182). See vol. VII., no. 
631, note 2. 

[ggi] 1 Life of Gerry, I. 438. 

* See Dana to Gerry June 17, 18, 1784, in vol. VII., nos. 627, 630. 



June, 1784 845 

of the states having arrived we met accordingly ; i.e. for New-Hampshire, 
Mr. Blanchard; Massachusetts, Mr. Dana; Pennsylvania, Mr. Hand; 
Virginia, Mr. Hardy; South Carolina, Mr. Read; but there not being a 
sufficient number to proceed to business, the committee adjourned to eleven 
o'clock this day; then present as above, and for Maryland, Mr. Chase. 
The committee then adjourned to eleven o'clock to-morrow, when, it is 
said, Delaware, North Carolina and Georgia will be represented ; in which 
case we shall have a quorum for business. 3 The first we shall take up will 
probably be the appointment of a federal court, upon the claims of the 
citizens of Connecticut and of Pennsylvania. Mr. Wilson has already 
arrived upon that business. 4 By the way, he informs me that Longchamps 
has been convicted of the notable infraction, etc. ; but no sentence had been 
passed when he left Philadelphia. 5 It seems their judges, bar and all, 
agreed in opinion that the laws of nations applicable to the subject are 
to be considered as the law of the land. Of this I yet have my doubts. 
It seems also that upon this ground the culprit has been demanded as a 
subject of his most christian majesty, to be sent to France. It might be 
advisable for our legislatures to pass declaratory laws touching the extent 
or adoption of the law of nations relative to the infractions of the immuni- 
ties of ambassadors and other public ministers, and other matters, agree- 
ably to the recommendations of congress of the 23d of November 1781. 
Recommendations of this sort, though important in themselves, are too 
often laid aside by the legislatures till they are forgotten; and if they are 
brought up into remembrance, it is by the happening of cases for which 
remedies were intended by congress, and ought in their nature to have been 
provided previously. To prevent evils of this kind, as well as to procure 
certain benefits to the union, I have presumed, in my letter of the nth 
instant to the general assembly, 8 to submit to their consideration, "Whether 
it would not be expedient that a committee should be appointed by the legis- 
lature, at the commencement of every session, to examine the public letters 
of their delegates, whether written to the legislature or the governour, and 
also the journals of congress as they shall be transmitted ; and to make a 
report upon any matter which they shall find in either requiring the atten- 
tion of the legislature." By such a measure, the affairs of the union would 
be regularly brought under the consideration of the legislature, and in 
due season they would acquire a habit of attending to them ; and besides, 
congress would save themselves the trouble and avoid the shameful neces- 
sity, into which they are often driven, of reiterating their recommenda- 
tions to the several legislatures. The journals of congress are not yet 
printed up to the day of their adjournment; when they shall be, I will 
forward your's. Adieu, my dear sir. 

8 See ibid., nos. 634-636 ; also the Journals, June 26 to July 5. 

4 See the Journals, July 27; also vol. VII. passim (index, Wyoming). 

5 See ibid., nos. 628, 630, 631, 634, 695 ; also nos. 992, 994, 998, 1010, post. 

6 Vol. VII., no, 623. 



846 Continental Congress 

992. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 
Committee of the States. 1 

Philada. July 2. 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

I should have sent you some account of Longchamps trial, but you will 
have it better from Mr. Wilson and Mr. Attorney general who are gone 
down to meet the committee. 2 I think it will be proper to send a minute 
detail of this matter to our Ministers in Paris to prevent any disagreeable 
consequences. For this purpose I have requested Mr. Attorney general 
to be careful in preserving the correspondence that has passed between 
him and Mr. Marbois on the subject as well as votes relative thereto. 
When he returns I will call upon him and draw up a short account, which 
I shall have the honor of submitting to your inspection. I have had a 
slight touch of a disorder which usually attacks me at this season of the 
year. It has left me weak but I hope I shall soon recover. Please to make 
my respects to the comee. 

P.S. I send you the first 3 numbers of the herald, a paper which has just 
made its appearance in this city 8 



993. The Secretary of Congress to Richard Dobbs Spaight. 1 

Philada. July 2, 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

I hope you got down safe and found all your friends well and in better 
humour than when you parted. I am anxious to hear in what temper the 
comee. has met, whether they are more inclined to accommodation or still 
infected with the old leaven and disposed to torment each other by con- 
tinuing their session at Annapolis. 8 

A vessel is just arrived in six weeks from London I have not yet heard 
what news she brings. If there is any thing material I will inform you in 
my next. I enclose you two or three of the last papers 

My compliments to Mr. Read and all friends 

[99a] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

8 See no. 991, ante, and nos. 094, 998, 999 (note 3), 1004 (note 5), 1010, post. 
The attorney general of Pennsylvania was William Bradford. He and James Wilson, 
according to appointment, were attending in behalf of Pennsylvania for the adjustment 
of the Connecticut- Pennsylvania controversy. See vol. VII., nos. 634, 635, 649, 655, 
and no. 999, post. 

■If this was the Pennsylvania Evening Herald its beginning was earlier than 
stated in the Library of Congress Check List of American Eighteenth Century News- 
papers, which places its establishment at Jan. 25, 1785. 

[993] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 Spaight attended June 30. Cf. vol. VII., nos. 637, 638. For further remarks of 
Thomson respecting Annapolis see no. 1000, post. Under a brief letter to Chairman 
Hardy July 13 (see no. 994, note 2, post), in the Letter-Book Thomson notes that he 
"wrote the same day to Mr. Spaight". 



July, 1784 847 

994. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 
Committee of the States. 1 

Philada. July 5, 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

On friday last I received your favour enclosing a bill of Exchange for 
333H dollars on Mr. J. J. Bogert which I present'd and got accepted on 
the same day as soon as it is paid I will remit you the amount in bank 
notes. 2 

I hope before this a sufficient number of members have assembled to 
form a comee. for business. In which case I would beg leave to suggest 
a small amendment in their act of the 4th June in answer to the letter of 
28 May from the Supreme Ex: council of Pensylvania, by striking out 
the words " and beating " which follow " assaulting " Though assault 
and battery is a law phrase yet on this occasion the word beating reduces 
it to common parlance seems to me to be too indelicate and must I appre- 
hend hurt Mr. M whose dignity has been insulted and whose feelings are 
all alive and therefore as the words are not necessary, I wd. wish them to 
be omitted. 3 I shall be glad of your answer as soon as possible 



995. The Secretary of Congress to the Commissioners in Paris. 1 

To Hon'ble John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson 
Ministers plenipotentiary of the United States of America 

Philadelphia July 16, 1784. 
Gentlemen, 

In Obedience to the order of the Committee of the States I have the 
honor to send you copies of the papers relating to the brig L' Amiable 
Elizabeth a french vessel that was deserted by her crew at sea and was 
boarded and taken up by citizens of the United States and carried into 
St. Johns in Newfoundland, where she was seized by a public officer and 
her cargo disposed of — that you may require of the British court that 
the full value of the said brig and her cargo be restored for the benefit of 
Robert Shewell by whose order she was taken up at Sea, and other just 
claimants according to the laws and usage of civilized commercial and 
friendly nations 2 

[994] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 A brief letter to Hardy July 13, covering the remittance, is in the Letter-Book. 
8 In the resolution June 4, as it appears in the Journals, the words " and beating " 
are erased. " Mr. M.", above, refers to Marbois. See nos. 091, 902, ante, and nos. 998, 
999 (note 3), 1004 (note 5), 1010, post. 

[995 V Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See the Journals, July 10; also vol. VII., nos. 612, 632, 645, also no. 996, post. 
On July 8 the Committee of the States resolved that sea letters, in the form there speci- 
fied be granted to John Clark and William Green, captain and supercargo, respectively, of 
the ship Hydra. Recording compliance with that instruction Thomson has the following 
memorandum in his Letter-Book : " On the 14. affixed the seal of the U. S. to Sea Letters 
granted by the comee. of the States to John Clark commander of the ship Hydra and 
delivered the same to Mr. William Ellery Junr." 



848 Continental Congress 

996. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 

Committee of the States. 1 

[July 20, 1784.] 
Sir, 

I have the honor to inform you that hav'g re'd by last post in a letter 
from Mr. Bankson sundry acts of the hon'ble Committee, I took the 
earliest opportunity of forwarding them to the persons for whom they are 
designed. Your letter to Mr. Adams with the act and papers relative to the 
brig L' Amiable Elizabeth are forwarded with Mr. Morris' despatches in a 
vessel that was to sail for France the beginning of this week. 2 The copy 
of general Clarke's letter and the resolution in answer thereto I delivered 
to Mr. Lee who arrived here on friday last. 8 And I sent Mr. Hazard the 
resolution in answer to his letter of the 15 June.* I shall always be happy 
to execute the orders of the com'ee to whom you will please to present my 
dutiful respect. 

997. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philada. 20 July 1784. 
Sir, 

Mr. Lee informs me that the last commission made out for the commis- 
sioners to negotiate with the Indians and in which his name is inserted 
cannot be found you will therefore send me as speedily as possible a copy 
thereof, in such form that if the other is not found, the seal may be put to 
it and it may be executed anew.* 

998. Francis Dana to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

Annapolis, June [July] 20, 1784. 
My Worthy Friend, 

.... We have made up a table of New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, 
New-Jersey and Pennsylvania, and I believe it hath been productive of 
some good ; 2 but where some persons are totally disinclined to do business, 
and are fatigued at the very sight of it ; whose assistance is besides indis- 
pensably necessary, for we have yet only nine states on the floor, every 
thing must be at a stand. From such causes we have hitherto done very 
little business. Yet the burthen of this is so great, that some will insist 

[996] * Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See no. 995, ante. 

■ A letter to the commissioners for treating with the Indians, July 16, enclosing 
the letter of George Rogers Gark, dated "The Falls of Ohio 26 April 1784", is in the 
Letter-Book. See the Journals, July 10, and vol. VII., no. 645. 

* See the Journals, July 10. 
[997] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 On July 23 Thomson again wrote Bankson, urging him to hasten the matter, 
and on the same day he wrote more particularly to Chairman Hardy. The letter to 
Hardy is printed in extenso in the Journals, July 26. Respecting a conference between the 
commissioners, Lee and Butler, with the Pennsylvania council July 23, or thereabouts, 
see Pa. Arch., first ser., X. 294, 295. Cf. ibid., p. 316. 
\99&y Life of Gerry, I. 441. 

2 Cf. Samuel Dick's letter of July 7, vol. VII., no. 639. See also Dick to Ellery 
July 15, ibid., no. 644. 



July, 1784 849 

upon adjourning every Saturday, for the benefit of their health, and 
because they have not been accustomed to do business on that day ; and I 
will add, nor on any other day. Vexed at the attempt last Saturday, I 
called for the yeas and nays upon the question, but it was carried against 
me. The barrenness of our journal makes me ashamed. I will soon quit a 
place where public business cannot be done, and retire home to do my 
private business. This I shall do the beginning of next month. 3 

Although I can't entertain you with any of our doings, yet it may be 
acceptable to you to learn that North Carolina has granted the impost and 
the supplementary revenues, acceded to the proposed alteration in the 
eighth article of the confederation and directed the time of service of their 
delegates to commence agreeably to that, vested congress with a power to 
regulate trade with foreign nations, and finally ceded all the territory they 
claimed west of the Apalachian or Alleghany mountain lying between that, 
their northern and southern boundary and the Mississippi. All this, I 
think, is well done. South Carolina has granted the impost, but not the 
supplementary revenues, nor the power to regulate trade with foreign 
nations, but only with the West Indies : this last is an act of some standing, 
and was intended as a retaliation for the royal proclamation. Virginia has 
granted the impost and vested congress with a power to regulate trade 
with foreign nations, and hath acceded to the proposed alteration of the 
eighth article of the confederation. All these acts, excepting the Virginia 
impost act, have lately been laid before the committee of the states by 
their respective delegates. 4 We have just heard that Rhode-Island has 
rejected the impost bill by a very great majority. I think this not to their 
honour. But what can be done with such a people? Must our whole 

system be overthrown by their ? Fill this blank according to 

their demerits. 

This day we have received a letter from Mr. Marbois, acquainting us 
that upon the application of some of our merchants, his majesty had per- 
mitted their vessels on their way to the Indies to stop at the Islands of 
France and of Bourbon, to refresh, etc. Not a word yet of the famous 
culprit, except that he has been convicted. 5 I propose in my way home to 
visit the Dutch minister, and shall be ready to return the visit of Mr. 
Charge d'affaires if he should think proper to make me one. 

I have already spoken of the adjournment of last Saturday. Monday 
and this, day we adjourned for want of numbers ; Georgia being absent at 
the call of the house yesterday, and Virginia and Georgia to-day. Thus 
have we lost three days through mere indolence or inattention. 

Your letter of the 12th from Providence has just come to hand. I feel 
vexed and grieved at the doings of the general assembly of that state. I 
wish gentlemen in public life would learn to control their resentments, and 

3 Cf. Dana to the Massachusetts assembly July 15, 22, 1784, in vol. VII., nos. 
643, 651. 

4 See the Journals, July 14-16, 21, 1784, and vol. VII., nos. 643, 645, 648, 651, 652. 

5 A committee on Marbois' letter, dated May 6, made a report July 22. See vol. 
VII., nos. 651, 653, 654, 656. The "famous culprit" was Longchamps. See nos. 991, 992, 
994, ante, and nos. 099 (note 3), 1004 (note 5), 1010, post. 



850 Continental Congress 

to be guided in public measures by a cool judgment. Let us not despair yet 
however of carrying the present system into effect : it is too important to 
the union to be suddenly abandoned. What can be substituted in its place ? 
It must be tried on again when some men's passions shall have subsided. 
We have not yet had any addition to our representation. I shall quit the 
ground in company with Mr. Blanchard towards the beginning of next 
month, and shall hope for the pleasure of seeing you chez nous as soon 
after my return as may suit your convenience. You will doubtless have 
occasion to go to Boston, and you must take a little circuit to Cambridge. 

999. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philadelphia 21st July, 1784. 
Mr. Bankson, 

I have received your letter of the 16. with the packets and papers 
therein mentioned. I return you the copy of the journal of the Com'ee of 
the states, and would just observe that I think it unnecessary to insert the 
credentials of any of the delegates on the Journal. They ought to be 
entered in the book of Credentials kept for the purpose, and only a note 
made of them in the daily journal. And therefore Unless the Com'ee are of 
a different Opinion I would propose to alter the minute of the 3 July so 
that it may read as follows " The credentials produced by Mr. Houston the 
30th June under the great seal of the State of Georgia were read ; whereby 
it appears that on the 9 Jany and 23 Feby last William Houston, Edward 
Telfair Joseph Habersheim William Few and William Gibbons esqrs. 
were elected to represent that state in Congress " * 

I have written to Mr. Hardy respecting what I deem an omission in the 
Journal, if he and the com'ee concur in opinion with me I presume they 
will order it to be supplied. 8 

1000. The Secretary of Congress to Jacob Read. 1 

Philada. 23 July 1784. 
I acknowledge, my dear Sir, the beauties and agreeable Situation of 
Annapolis and will admit that the graces and charms of its nymphs were 
not excelled by those of the inhabitants of Calypso's isle. 2 And were you 
and your associates in pursuit only of love and pleasure, I would allow 
there is no place where you could more properly fix yr habitation. But 

[999] l Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 The entry was made in the Journals (July 5) nearly as Thomson suggested, 
except that it includes the name of Gen. Lachlan Mcintosh, which Thomson had omitted. 
■ The letter to Chairman Hardy, dated July 20, is in vol. VII., no. 649, and per- 
tains to the Connecticut-Pennsylvania controversy. See no. 992, ante, and the Journals, 
July 27. 

[iooo] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 Thomson appears to be replying to a letter of Read, but such a letter has not 
been found. Cf. no. 1012, post. On July 24 Thomson wrote to President Dickinson 
in reply to an inquiry from the latter, giving his recollections (not having the Journals 
at hand) of one phase of the proceedings in Congress that culminated in the act of Apr. 
18, 1783 (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Thomson Letter-Book). See vol. VII., nos. 124, 
164, 167, 182, 184. 



July, 1784 851 

these are not the objects of the patriot's pursuit. The dance, the ball and 
continued round of pleasure are not the means of promoting the interest 
of his country, guarding its rights and advancing its happiness and pros- 
perity. I confess therefore I should not be sorry, if some kind mentor, I 
care not whether in the shape of a musquito or a fever and ague were to 
drive you from that enchanting place into the walks of politics and force 
you to turn your attention to the concerns of this young and rising empire 
which demands your Care. 

Ireland is in a ferment, Holland not at ease and by the paper I enclose 
you will see that your native city Charleston is in a state of confusion. 
Rhodeisland by her refusal to grant the impost has damped the hopes of 
the public creditors and sapped the foundation of public credit. The 
Superint: of fin. is hastening to close his accounts and withdraw from 
Office. The seeds of dissention are sowing at Wyoming between Con- 
necticut and Pensylvania. New York and Vermont are not in the way of 
pacification. The business of the Indian Commission proceeds slowly, 
and Virginia by her acts is laying a foundation of national discussion 
with G. B. Whether the sequestered enchanting scenes of Annapolis is the 
place for the Watchmen of the U. S. to take their stand in order to 
foresee and provide against the brewing storm I submit to your considera- 
tion and am with sincere affection 

P. S. Please to make my compliments to Mr. Spaight and Mr. Houston 3 
and tell them I mean part of this letter for them. 

1001. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philada. 27 July 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

I rece'd yours of the 19 with the 6 copies of the journal for the office 
of finance. After the 2 doz are sent up for the Superint I shall be obliged if 
you will send me 7 doz. more. I likewise reed, the copies relative to Long- 
champ; but there is another letter or note from the Minister which I 
should be glad to have and which is not among those sent. 

As the manuscript Journal, which I brought with me does not come 
lower than Jan'y 1779, and the originals are necessary to enable me to 
compleat the secret and foreign affairs journal as directed, I shall be glad 
provided Mr. Remsen comes in the stage if you will pack up in a box as 
many of the original manuscript Journals from Jan'y 1779 as he can 
conveniently bring and commit them to his charge 2 

3 William Houstoun, delegate from Georgia. 
[100 1] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 Henry Remsen, jr., was under secretary in the office for foreign affairs. On 
Aug. 2 he obtained leave of absence. Thomson wrote also to Remsen July 27, partly 
with regard to a remittance, otherwise in essentially the same terms as the second para- 
graph of this letter to Bankson. On the same day he wrote to Chairman Hardy to 
transmit a copy of an act of the legislature of Massachusetts pursuant to the recommen- 
dation of Congress Apr. 30, 1784. The act was laid before the Committee of the States 
July 30. 



852 Continental Congress 

1 002. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philada. July 30, 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

I received yours of the 23 with the copy of the Journal of the Comee. 
of the States which is herewith returned. I have signed and forwarded the 
resolutions of the 21 to the Superintendant, the Sec'y in the war office and 
the paymaster general. 2 I thank you for the sheet of the journal last 
printed and will be obliged if you will send me a copy of all that was 
printed of 1783 at Annapolis. I hope the printer will use the utmost dis- 
patch in finishing that year. And when done let them be packed up so 
that they may be sent here to be bound up with those in the hands of the 
book binder I think it will also be well to have the journal of last session 
packed up in cases to be sent or left here with the book binder, and a 
memorandum made in the office of the number of reams so packed up and 
sent. 

P. S. I have just reed, yours of the 26 for which I thank you and which 
I shall answer in my next. 

1003. The Secretary of Congress to William Churchill Houston. 1 

Philada. July 30, 1784. 
Mr. Houston, 

I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write on the 20. After 
a good deal of Pains I found the person with whom the records of the 
court of Appeal are lodged, but not in time to obtain any information 
respecting the appeal you mention. I understand that if you want only a 
summary account of the issue you may be gratified at a trifling expence. 
But if you desire to have a copy of the record it will be pretty expensive 
as all the cost on the Action must be first paid and then the fees for the 
copy of the proceedings and final judgment This regulation is judged 
necessary as the business of the Court is now over and the judgments and 
sentences in the Office are the only security for the paymt. of the costs 
and the officers of the court. 

1004. John Montgomery to Charles Thomson. 1 

Carlisle 2d Augt 1784. 
D'r Sir, 

I showed you my letter to the Presdt. on Carbreys affair I got no 
answer I wrote to him on a nother subject some time ago at the Bottom 
of the letter I ask'd him Coley [coolly] what was to be Done with 
Carbrey I have received no answer you wou'd Call this neglect per- 

[100a] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Rook of Charles Thomson. 

2 See the Journals, July 21, 22, 26; cf. no. 1005, post. 
[1003] 1 Hist. Soc of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 
[1004] * Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. I. 



August, 1/84 853 

haps it is something Else but I belive that affair will Sleep no inquerry 
will be made and if it does I Can say that is not my fault 2 

I am as much out of the world here as I was at Annaplies we hear 
nothing of what is doing in your City I sepose that the assembly is met 
shou'd be glad to know if thire is any prospect of raising men and what 
forwardness the treaty is in Mr. Lee is at Philada. and has accepted the 
apointment I am affraid that the treaty Business gos on heavly if thire 
shou'd be no treaty this fall I fear that an Indian war will be the 
Consequence 3 

how do you feel on being so long out of Congress are you not like a 
fish out of water Dont you wish to be in Congress if even at annapolis 
Dont you long for a good fat turkie the fine fish and Delightful Oysters 
the Pleasing prospect and the Cooling breeses will you pay that Pleasant 
City a Visit this Summer or did you look back when passing by the poor 
house and take a final ferwell of the anc[i]ent City I am to be thire 
aginst the first of Sepbr and I sepose I shall both shake and trimble 
before I shall leave it 4 

well but you have Lessure to make some cool observations on the times 
shall I beg to be favoured with some of them Road Island its said has 
totley rejected the 5 per Ct. impost which gives a fatal blow to Publick 
Cridit no Commiss'r from Connecticut on the 4th monday in June last 5 
our Rulers will be pleased the attorneys I sepose have made sure of 
thire fees shou'd be glad to hear from you if you write Genrl. Irwine 
or genrl. Butler or 6 my Son who is now in Philada. will forward your 
letters I beg that you wou'd make my best Compliments to your very 
agreeable good Lady 

1005. The Secretary of Congress to Robert Morris. 1 

Si r Philada. Aug. 3, 1784. 

I have the honor to enclose you a letter from the Comee of the States to 
Mr. Carmichael at the Court of Madrid with the papers therein mentioned 
also a motion of Mr. Read which is referred to you. As the letter, papers 
and motion are in answer to yours of the 13 April and they come to me 
without any particular order I presume it is their intention that the whole 
shouM be sent to you that you may forward the letter and papers to Mr. 
C and write to Mr. Pollock on the subject. For that purpose I send them 
to you as I received them 2 

N B Same day transmitted to the Ex's, of the several states the act of 
26 July. 3 

2 Concerning the Henry Carbery affair see vol. VII. passim, particularly nos. 
57ii 574. 577. 59°. 605, 687. Montgomery's letter to the President of Pennsylvania has 
not been found. 

8 Cf. Montgomery to Hand July 26, ibid., no. 657. Concerning Arthur Lee and 
the Indian treaty see no. 997, ante. 

4 See Thomson's reply to this letter, Aug. 22, in vol. VII., no. 676. 

5 See nos. 992 (note 3), 999 (note 2), ante. 

6 Montgomery probably failed to insert a name, as " my Son " is evidently not the 
object of "write" but the subject of "will forward". 

[ioo5] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 
2 See the Journals, July 26, 28 ; also no. 1002, ante. 
8 See Thomson to Chairman Hardy Aug. 10, in vol. VII., no. 669. 



854 Continental Congress 

1006. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 

Committee of the States. 1 

Philad Aug. 3, 1784. 
Sir, 

I received by yesterday's post the enclosed letter of the 28 from Mr. 
Kilty assigning his reasons for quitting the Office. I have directed Mr. 
Bankson in case he find it necessary to employ some person to assist him 
during the continuance of the Office at Annapolis. 

Copy of the letter enclosed. 

Annapolis July 28, 1784. Sir, I think it incumbent on me to make you 
acquainted with my motives for leaving the Sec'ys Office, of which circum- 
stances I presume you have been apprized Not to trouble you with a recital 
of small disgusts which had nearly determined me against going to Trenton, 
I shall confine myself to the occasion of my quitting employment at this period, 
wch. was the appointment of Mr. Campbell a student of the law to the Office 
of Secretary to the Commission for Indian treaties with a Salary of 1850 
dollars per Annum. I shall not question the abilities of the gentleman. They 
are I believe greater than common at his age which is but seventeen or eighteen ; 
but finding that he had been preferred to a person who to the advantage of 
some experience joins that claim to consideration which Military service can 
give and is otherwise as well qualified as Mr. Campbell, I could not but think 
my own prospect in the civil line very unpromising. The gentleman I allude 
to is captain Hoops. He is universally allowed to be a man of merit and 
understanding. A comparison of his pretentions with my own left me no room 
to expect better fortune than he has met with ; and as the consideration of a 
bare maintenance in an obscure station was by no means what induced me to 
offer you my service, so Sir, being convinced that this was all I had to expect, 
I could not hesitate to withdraw from the pursuit. To shew however that I 
was not sanguine or impatient I beg you will be pleased to observe that the 
office in question appeared to me greatly above my pretensions and I conse- 
quently never had a thought of applying for it. I was surprised at the confi- 
dence of the young gentleman who has obtained it, but much more so, when 
I saw him actually in possession of a trust so important as I conceived it to 
be. I hope, Sir, the desire I have to free (in your Opinion particularly) my 
conduct from the appearance of caprice will excuse the liberty I have taken. I 
shall trespass on your patience no longer than is necessary to assure you that 
it is with much regret I find myself compelled by my feelings on this occasion 
to forfeit the example of my principal and the society of my associates in 
the Secretary's Office. With Compliments to Mrs. T. and sincere wishes 
for your happiness I have the honor to be with great respect. 

Sr. Yr. M ob. h S. 

John Kilty, jr. 

1007. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 

Committee of the States. 1 

Aug. 13, 1784. 
I have this moment reed, a letter without date from Mr. Bankson which 
astonishes me exceedingly. It contains the following paragraph 

f 1006] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 
1007] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter- Book of Charles Thomson. 



August, 1784 855 

I am authorized to inform Mr. Thomson that the following gentlemen of 
the Committee will leave this to morrow and next day Mr. Blanchard, Mr. 
Dana Mr. Dick and Mr. Read. 2 The three first set out to morrow As it is 
probable (I may say certain) that dissolution of the committee will follow 
I must request how to proceed. 

Can it be possible that gentlemen will take such a rash step as to dis- 
solve the Comee. and leave the United States without any head or visible 
authority ? Have they considered what may be the consequences ? At this 
moment, if I am rightly informed there is a war carrying on between the 
people of Connecticut and Pensylvania at Wyoming. The frontiers are in 
a state of anxiety respecting the disposition of the Indians. Who is to 
convene the states lett what will be the necessity, if the comee is dissolved? 
If Annapolis is become inconvenient or dangerous on account of the sickly 
season approaching Could not the comee. have adjourned to this place or 
to Trenton ? You will excuse my anxiety I write under the first impression 
and emotions. What would you advise respecting the office In case of the 
event which Mr. Bankson mentions ? will it not be proper to remove the 
papers to this city as there is no place yet provided at Trenton I have 
written to Mr. Bankson and desired him to consult you on the Occasion. 
I shall wait with Impatience for your Answer s 

1008. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philada. Aug 13, 1784. 
Mr. Bankson, 

I have this moment reed, yours without date wherein you say you are 
authorised to inform me that Mr. Blanchard Mr. Dana, Mr. Dick and Mr. 
Read will leave Annapolis the morrow and next day, that the three first 
would set out the morrow and that as it is probable (you may say certain) 
that a dissolution of the Comee will follow requesting to know how to 
proceed. I hope the gentlemen will not take so rash a step without at least 
giving some directions respecting the removal of the Offices. But should 
that be the case you will be pleased to consult with Mr. Hardy. If the 
committee is dissolved I think it will be best to have all the papers safely 
packed up in cases and brought to this city. Let the manuscript Journals 
that remain be put into the iron chest. 2 .... I wait with impatience for 
farther Intelligence 

1009. The Secretary of Congress to the Commissioners in Paris. 1 

Philadelphia 13 Aug. 1784. 
Gentlemen, 

In pursuance of the orders of the Comee of the States I have the honor 
to transmit to you the copy of a letter signed T. Gilfillan dated London 

2 See no. 1014, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 1008, 1012-1016, post; also vol. VII., nos. 666, 668, 670-673. Hardy's 
reply, Aug. 16, is ibid., no. 674. 

[1008] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See no. 1007, ante. The omitted passage pertains to some bills Bankson was 
unable to collect. 

[ 1 009] x Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 



856 Continental Congress 

the 19 feby 1784 with the copy of an inspection roll of Negroes taken 
on board certain vessels at Anchor near Staten Island on the 30 Novr. 
1783, to be made use of in any negotiations you may have with the Court 
of Great Britain agreeably to the Instructions heretofore transmitted 
to you * 

1010. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin. 1 

Aug. 13. 1784. 
My dear friend, 

The renewal of our ancient correspondence and receipt of your letters 
excited those sensations which real friends feel on meeting unexpectedly 
after a long separation. As Mr. Jefferson who I hope is by this time safe 
arrived will explain matters to you and make you fully acquainted with 
the state of our affairs I shall no longer conceal from you the circumstance 
of the omission of the signature of letter of the 5 Jan'y last which pro- 
cured me the favour of hearing from you oftener than I had done. The 
letter was to have been signed by the presid't. As the vessel was on the 
point of sail'g and the captain only waiting for the dispatch, I copied the 
letter in Congress and delivered it to the president who sealed it up in a 
hurry without putting his name to it. 2 So that my letters to you are all 
private and this will explain the reason why they generally contain 
" nothing of public affairs ". I am sensible you must have been for a 
considerable time past greatly at a loss for want of official communications 
and though I often wished to give you some, yet, I forbore for reasons 
which if ever I shall be so happy to have a personal interview I can express 
and which I am persuaded you will deem satisfactory. But this incon- 
venience will be obviated if Mr. Jay who with his family arrived at New 
York the 24 July and who as I mentioned to you in a former letter is 
appointed Sec'y for foreign affairs accepts that office as I hope he will. 
Though I must confess my hope is founded more on my wishes than on 
any solid reason. I have written and informed him of his appointment 
and urged his acceptance, but have not yet received his Answer.' Col 
Harmar who arrived with the Marquis de la Fayette after a fine passage 
of 35 days delivered me on the eighth Inst your letter of the 14 June with 
a copy of that of the 13 May which I had received before, announcing the 
exchange of the ratifications of the definitive treaty of Peace : on this happy 
completion of our hazardous enterprize I most sincerely congratulate you. 
It is an event which I have devoutly wished, and yet I cannot but say the 
prospect of it has often excited many uneasy apprehensions. 4 .... 

2 See the Journals, July 22. 
[ioio] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See vol. VII., no. 487, note 2. 

• See ibid., nos. 629, 738. 

♦Franklin's letters of May 13 and June 14 are in N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collec- 
tions: Revolutionary Papers, I. 184, 188. A letter of Apr. 16 is ibid., p. 183. The letter 
of May 13 is also in Wharton, Rev. Dip}. Corr., VI. 806. See also his letters to the 
President of Congress May 12, June 16, ibid., pp. 805, 813. 



August, 1/84 857 

There is a circumstance in the conduct of Longchamps 5 not mentioned 
in any of the papers, which it may not be improper to inform you of. 
On the 17 he committed the first insult; on the 18 he went to a Justice of 
the peace and took an Oath of allegiance to the state, after which he 
perpetrated the outrage of the 19th. His views in taking the oath have 
been variously interpreted, some imagining that he meant thereby to 
secure himself from the french laws and from the power and resentment 
of the Consul, others that his design was by becoming a citizen to involve 
the state in his crime and interest the populace in his favour. But what 
ever might have been his views even the lawyers who under took his defence 
laid little stress upon it in their pleadings and the bench seem'd to be 
decidedly of Opinion that the oath he had taken was of no effect and that 
he was to be considered only in the light of an alien stranger. 

The commissions which Mr. Jefferson carried with him and which I 
hope you have received before this will not only inform you of the purpose 
of Congress respecting your request of recal, but enable you to satisfy the 
Danish Minister and to proceed on commercial treaties with G B and other 
powers. I wish I were able to give you any pleasing expectations with 
respect to some employment for your Secretary W. T. F. 6 against whose 
conduct or abilities while in public service I have never heard the least 
objection On the contrary I have always heard them well spoken of But 
to me it appears that it will be injuring your grandson to delay making 
some other provision for him in hopes of an employment from Congress, 
and of this I am persuaded you are already convinced by the appointmt. of 
Col. Humphreys. And yet I have seen such changes in the conduct of 
public affairs occasioned by the change of men entrusted with the direction 
of them that there is always room left for hope. But he who has other 
means of support is less affected by a disappointment in meeting with 
public employ and if his country stands in need of his services and calls 
upon him to fill any office he seems to confer rather than to receive an 
Obligation by accepting it 

I need not mention with what marks of cordiality and affection the 
Marquis de la Fayette who came to this place last Monday, was received by 
all ranks of people. His stay was short as he was anxious to see Genl 
Washington. He left town this Morning and expects to be back in 3 or 
4 weeks. 

Mr. Laurens is arrived at New York but not yet come forward. 7 I in- 
tended to have troubled Mr. Jefferson with a line by this Opportunity. 
But my letter to you has insensibly become so long that I shall not have 
time. You will please to make my respectful compliments to him and to 
Mr. Adams 

5 See nos. 091, 992, 994, 998, ante. 

6 William Temple Franklin. See vol. VII., nos. 429, 532 (note 2), 597, 626, 
658 (note 2). 

7 See Samuel Hardy to Governor Harrison Aug. 13, in vol. VII., no. 673. 



858 Continental Congress 

ion. The Secretary of Congress to Monsieur Aycard. 1 

Philadelphia Aug 13, 1784. 
Sir, 

Congress have received your letter of the 21 Oct. 1783, wherein you 
mention your having shipped the 10 April 1778 on board the frigate 
commanded by captain Stubag, a statue of his Most Christian Majesty 
which you designed as a present for them. 

I am sorry to inform you that Congress have never received it, nor 
have they had any advice of the arrival of such a vessel. It does not appear 
from yr. letter whether the Adelaid was a King's frigate or private vessel, 
for what port she was destined or whether she ever arrived at the place 
of destination or any port of America. On these matters your situation 
will enable you to gain full information 2 

Mr. Aycard Sculpteur a Marseilles, hors la porte de paradis. 

1012. Jacob Read to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

Annapolis 13th August 1784. 
My Dear Sir, 

I wrote you by last Friday's post * and expected before this day to have 
been on my Journey to Philadelphia but had no other impediment inter- 
vened the reduced state of my Cavalry wou'd have prevented. I had not 
heard from my Colleague and was exceedingly loth to break up the Com- 
mittee by withdrawing myself. 

The New Englanders had given notice that they wou'd certainly leave 
the Committee about the middle of the present month and as I was aware 
they intended if possible to charge the Dissolution of the Committee to the 
Southern States I made a virtue of Necessity and determined to prevent 
this Effort of their Malignity and to out-stay them. I in fact have done so." 

Mr. Bankson will have to ask your advice on a new and extraordinary 
Case and I take the Liberty of stating it in the present Letter and the 
grounds of the opinion I in Concurrence with Ten others gave him 

The Committee did no business all the last Week owing to the necessary 
absence of Mr. Chase and the non attendance of Mr. McHenry who had 
previous and sufficient notice but did not appear. 

On Monday Mr. Chase returned and we had a Committee you will 
observe by the Copies of the Journal which I suppose is regularly sent 
you that the Eastern Delegates had made Two long Special Motions for 
an adjournment on which the Yeas and Nays were taken Myself and 
Spaight Concurred on those questions as thinking it most reputable to the 

[ion] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See the committee report in the Journals, July 23. Edward Hand, a member 
of the committee, wrote to Secretary Thomson July 9 with regard to Aycard's letter, 
and Thomson replied July 13 (vol. VII., nos. 640, 642). 
[101a] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. I. 

8 A letter from Read to Thomson Friday, Aug. 6, has not been found, but a 
letter from Read to Washington Aug. 6 and another Aug. 13 are in vol. VII., nos 668, 
672. 

•C/. ibid., nos. 668-674. 



August, 1784 859 

Commee and beneficial for the Union to adjourn on plausible grounds 
rather than to suffer the dissolution of the Commee in any other way. 
The Gentlemen opposing the adjournment thought it necessary to bring 
their reasons on the Journal and accordingly on Monday Genl. Hand made 
a motion which was seconded by Mr. Spaight, after it was read from the 
Chair and the Yeas and Nays required by Mr. Hand — Mr. Dana threw 
out the threat of leaving the room as a means whereby he wou'd defeat the 
motion a short debate ensued but what Dana's Idea of dignity prevented 
his doing did not find any difficulty in the mind of his man Friday he 
accordingly left the room abruptly — being sent for he declined coming, and 
on Tuesday answered the Messenger that he was Engaged — on Wednesday 
neither himself nor Dana Attended on Wednesday Evening half after 
6 OClk I saw them set sail for the head of the Bay. Mr. Dick went 
silently off with the other Two. Thus we are rendered useless and im- 
potent. The Question for your decision is how is the Entry to be made ? 

We contend the Entry ought to be made according to the Truth of the 
Fact. Dana was opposed to this in which Dick joined him. But the other 
Ten were fully of opinion that the motion being before the House and the 
Yeas and Nays required coud not be gotten over or kept off the Journal 
but by an adjournment and that the Contemptuous conduct of Mr. Blanch- 
ard shou'd appear as the reason the Yeas and Nays were not taken. But 
that the motion must stand on the Journal — you must decide.* 

I had some thought of advertising the fugitives What think you of the 
Inclosed advertisement? 4 In the Course of the Week ensuing I shall cer- 
tainly see you farewell and believe me to be with the greatest sincerity 

* NB after a long and warm conversation the Clerk read the Entry he 
intended to make exactly according to our Idea, but in our absence Dana 

4 Following is Read's proposed advertisement : 
STOP THEM! STOP THEM!! O' STOP THEM !! ! 

Ten Pounds old Tenor Reward 

or Five pounds for either 

Runaway from their Employment at the New Temporary Shop not far from the 
confluence of Severn River and Carroll's Creek in Farm No 9. 

Jonathan, and Frank. 

Jonathan is tall and Straight made, much marked with the Small pox — wears his own 
ragged head of hair has a thin Sharp Visage, is remarkable for Repeating his Words 
or Sentences. This he is supposed to have acquired from Constantly receiving and fol- 
lowing the orders of his Leaders. Never having thought for himself, or uttered [any] 
opinion of his own. He from habit repeats what he has received from others as a Parrot 
woud and on some occasions is obliged to do so several times before he is quite sure he is 
right. The place of his birth is not known but supposed to have been in Farm No. 1. 
Frank is of Low Stature and Small limbs Stoops and is a good deal round Shouldered 
Wears a Wig in immitation of Natural hair. Has a down look and very Weak optics sup- 
posed to have arrisin from his looking at too much Snow in a more Northerly Situation. 
He is the most artful and disigning of the Two and is supposed to have inveigled away 
poor simple Jonathan of whom he intends to make a Cats paw. 

They may probably attempt to impose upon the World as being entitled to a General 
pass without Examination but take care and dont trust them particularly Frank too far 
he is supposed to have been born in Farm No 2. 

Shou'd they attempt to make for the Farms No. 1 and 2 tis not doubted but that they 
will be Catched and sent to their duty with a flea in the Ear Unless (which is hardly 
to be expected) those who know them will suffer themselves to be deceived by their false 
representations. 

Tis impossible to ascertain what dress they may take being tollerably well provided with 
Clothes but Jonathan generally Wears a Jean Coat and Nankeen Waistcoat and Breeches. 

61 



MO Continental Congress 

and Blanchard got round him and Intimidated him, so that the Journal 
remains Blank. 8 

PS. I believe we shall write a Circular Letter to the States not repre- 
sented informing them of the Situation of the Committee and calling on 
them to send forward a Member to meet those now attending at Phila- 
delphia to which place we shall advise the papers to be immediately carried. 6 

1013. Jacob Read, Proposed Entry in the Journals. 1 

[August 13. 1784.] 
. . . . 2 They have also advised the Chairman forthwith to write to the 
Supreme Executive of the several states not represented in the Committee 
of the States informing them of the Situation of the Committee and of the 
reasons for their ceasing to meet and requesting them to send forward 
as soon as may be a Delegate to meet the Committee of the States in the 
City of Philadelphia or wherever the papers and records of Congress may 
be lodged by the Secretary. 

1014. Jacob Read to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

Annapolis i6tli August 1784. 
My Dear Sir, 

T am sorry Mr. Bankson without my Authority shoud have made use of 
my Name and mentioned me as one of the persons about to leave the Com- 
mittee. 2 I saw the paragraph in your Letter by this day's post with great 
Pain and on enquiry of Mr. Bankson I find it was a Trick of the Little 
sore-Eyed Insignificant from Massachusetts. 3 Be assured my dear Sir I 

Frank a light Blue Goth Coat with white under cloaths As they were seen near Carroll's 
Creek about of the sailing of the Schooner Pick-pocket tis supposed they may have gone 
off in her 

Quere is not the owner liable in such Case? 

Sam who is very well intentioned and of a good Character belonging to Farm No 6 
tis feared has been seduced away by the persuasions of the other but no reward will be 
offered on his account as tis not doubted but that as soon as he recollects himself and his 
duty to the Farm he will return to his business and the place of his Employment. \\ 
ever will apprehend Jonathan and Frank and return tliem to the New Shop above men- 
tioned at the Sign of the thirteen Starrs will be entitled to the aforementioned reward. 
No. 9 August 12th, 1784. 

135 s Printers in all the Farms from No 1 to 13 will do well to insert this advertize- 
ment as tis intended for general benefit. 

8 See the Journal entry under Aug. 13; also Read's proposed entry, no. 1013, 
post. 

6 The circular letter went out over the signature of Chairman Hardy Aug. 19. 
See vol. VII., no. 675. 

[1013] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. I. 

2 That part of Read's proposed entry which is here omitted differs but little 
from the entry actually made with the date Aug. 19, and lined by Hardy, Hand, CI 
Spaight, Read, and Houstoun. The paragraph here printed varies from the succeeding 
entry of the same date, signed only by Hand, Spaight, Read, and Houstoun. Cf. no*. 1014, 
1015, post. See also Chairman Hardy's circular letter to the states Aug. 19, in vol. VII., 
no. 675- 

TIOI41 1 Library of Congress. Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 
2 See no. 1007, ante. 
8 Francis Dana. See no. 1013. ant*. 



August, 1/84 861 

did not intend to break up the Committee. I waited with much impatience to 
hear from My Colleague and wished much to see my Now languishing Par- 
ent at Rhode Island, perhaps on the first impression I did express an inten- 
tion to go to her soon at all events but on cooler reflection and weighing 
the Consequences to the Union I took another step to shew her my respect 
and still remain in a situation to serve my State. I sent my Brother James 
for Rhode Island and determined to wait with patience either an adjourn- 
ment or the arrival of some other Member to the Committee. My last will 
have informed you of the sudden dissolution of the Commee. and the Cause. 
I beg you'l remove the impression that I was one about to leave Annapolis. 
As we are now rendered Useless I shall soon see you. Spaight goes to No 
Caroli[n]a; and Hardy to Virginia. What is then not due to Jonathan 
Frank and Samuel ? 4 I hope the Congress will hold up their Conduct in 
proper Colours ! 

I send you the form of what we purpose leaving with the Clerk; I am 
not certain if the second part will be agreed to but I shall sign it for one 5 

Spaight gives his Comp'ts to you and says you owe him a Letter, he 
goes to No Caroli[n]a on Friday next 

My respectful Comp'ts to Mrs. Thompson 



1015. The Secretary of Congress to Benjamin Bankson. 1 

Philada. 17 Aug. 1784. 
Dear Sir. 

I have reed, yours of the 13 and am glad to find you have not the least 
doubt of procuring the Money 

There is no occasion of deciding immediately on the entry of the Mo- 
tion, which you will be careful to preserve. The gentlemen who wish to 
have it entered need not be uneasy; for the dissolution of the Comee is 
of such importance that it will doubtless come under the discussion of the 
United States in Congress assembled at their next meeting and it will 
then be in the power of any one of them who shall be there to have the 
whole matter stated on the journals of Congress. 2 

I do not forward the news papers as usual, because I imagine that before 
this can reach you, the books and papers of the Offices will be all packed 
up and ready to come forward if not already on their way to this place 
I have provided a place for their deposit till an Office can be got at Trenton. 
I am with much esteem and affection Yours. 

4 Jonathan Blanchard, Francis Dana, and Samuel Dick. See no. 1013, ante. 

r> Concerning Read's proposed entry see no. 1013, ante, and the two signed state- 
ments in the Journals, Aug. 19. Cf. no. 1015, post ; also Spaight to Thomson Sept. 9, 
in vol. VII., no. 679. 

[1015] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 The allusion is to the proposed entry in the Journals of the signed statements 
of members of the Committee of the States. See nos. 1012, 1013, 1014, ante, the Journals, 
Aug. 19. 



862 Continental Congress 

1016. The Secretary of Congress to the Chairman of the 
Committee of the States. 1 

Philadelphia 17 Aug. 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

Upon receipt of your letter of the 13 I went immediately to Mr. Bailey 
and had the Mortification to learn that he has not one of the books of 
Constitutions left. He sent a number of them to England for sale; But 
as they had been reprinted there his views were not answered. He has 
therefore ordered them back and expects to receive them by a vessel that 
is hourly expected to arrive. As soon as they come I shall not fail to pro- 
cure one and forward it to you or the Governor 

As I find the Members have left the Comee. and there can be no expec- 
tation of others arriving to supply their places, will it not be proper to 
order the Offices to be removed? There can be no use in keeping them 
any longer at Annapolis. If they were here I could have the printing 
compleated before the meeting of Congress 2 

1017. Jonathan Blanchard to Elbridge Gerry. 1 

New-York, Aug, 17. 1784. 
My Dear Sir, 

I have now the pleasure of addressing a line from this city, where I 
arrived the last evening. Mr. Dana tarried at Philadelphia to settle his 
account, but I expect his arrival to-morrow. 

We (the committee) have not heard any thing of settlement sino 
left congress. 

I hope you will not censure us for leaving Annapolis : we tarried until 
the nth in a disagreeable situation enough; at no time more than nine 
states, and of course one voice put a stop to any debate. Mr. Dana intro- 
duced a motion for an adjournment to Trenton, second Monday in Septem- 
ber. New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, New-Jersey, North Carolina and 
South Carolina were in favour of it, the other states were against it. 
Mr. Dana and myself told the committee that we were unwilling to tarry, 
being under necessity of returning to our states, and nothing to do in the 
committee. The week before last no representation from Maryland and 
no quorum. Monday last week Hand introduced a scandalous motion; 
Spaight seconded it. Mr. Dana rose after the reading from the chair. 
and with great spirit observed that the motion was cruel and barbarous, 
and by no means such treatment as the mover had experienced from Ni w - 
Hampshire and Massachusetts. The design was to cast an odium on Mr. 
Dana and myself for leaving the committee. Hand rose to reply to Mr. 
Dana, and I took my hat and cane and left the room. Soon after I got to 
Mrs. Brice's the deputy secretary came to me with a message from the 

[1016]' Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter-Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 See Hardy to Governor Harrison Auk. 13, in vol. VII., no. 673. His letter 
to Thomson Aug. 13 has not been found, but see his letter of Aug. 16, ibid., no. 674 ; also 
Thomson to Montgomery Aug. 22 (postscript Aug. 23). ibid., no. 676. Efforts to n 
the Committee of the States persisted almost until the time for the meeting of the new 
Congress. See ibid., nos. 678-691. 

[1017] 1 Life of Gerry, I. 447. 



October, 1784 863 

chairman, to know if I were about returning. I observed, that I was writ- 
ing a public letter, and could not. Read then rose and hallooed so that he 
might be heard through town, and insisted that the motion should be put 
on the journal. Mr. Dana insisted that it should not, and told the secretary 
to put it on at his peril ; and so the matter rests. We were under no concern 
from our states, and could move an amendment, or to strike out ; but I sup- 
posed the shortest way would be, to put a stop to it directly. Hand, Chase, 
Read, Hardy, Spaight and Houston treated us scandalously. Mr. Dana 
and I wished for a constitutional adjournment, and treated them with 
great decency to procure it, but all to no purpose. Mr. Dana said he could 
not tarry, and would not; and if the committee refused to adjourn when 
they could, they must answer for the consequences. Mr. Dick came off 
with us, and latterly has behaved pretty well. 2 There remains no prospect 
of a committee again. Such men are unfit to govern this country. When 
we came to Philadelphia we acquainted Thompson with the matter : he said 
he should order the papers to Trenton. Mr. Dana's health is improved 
and mine is good, but the heat intense. We hope soon to see our connexions 
and friends ; and few more so than Mr. Gerry. I enclose a paper. 

Pray accept my best wishes for a continuance of your health, being in 
great haste, 

1018. Jacob Read to the Secretary of Congress. 1 

New port Rhode Island 
Thursday 13th, October 1784. 
Dear Sir, 

It was not till yesterday that I had the pleasure to receive your favour of 
the 27th ulto ; for which I am greatly obliged. 2 on the 24th ulto. . I left 
this place on a Tour Eastward and passed quite on to Farm No 1 — indeed 
we went a little beyond it into the Province of Main — We passed 
thro' Providence — Boston — Salem — New Bury port Portsmouth and the 
smaller Towns on the road I am greatly pleased with my Jaunt at Boston 
we were most politely received and Treated with the greatest attention, 
here we continued Eight days in a constant round of Visits and good 
Company in Salem and Portsmouth we met also with great attention. 
I assure you the worst sample by far that I have seen of the people of these 
States has been their Delegates to Congress. In Boston I saw Honest 
Gorham who pressed me very much to spend a day with him in Charles 
Town where he lives but I cou'd not. I also saw Higgenson, he came up 
to me politely and Said he was glad to see me. I saw Osgood who attended 
us to see King Hancock but as he is Cashier of their Bank and obliged to 
give close Attendance there I had little of his Company. I met Gerry in 
the Street he had before heard of my being in Boston his Black Man 
told me he had mentioned that Circumstance to him but he Coloured and 
passed me without any further notice. I several times after saw him. We 
did not Speak. He is a Malignant white livered rascal — one day crossing 

2 Cf. nos. 1012-1016, ante; also vol. VII., nos. 666-676. 
[1018] 1 Library of Congress, Charles Thomson Papers, vol. II. 

2 Thomson's letter to Read Sept. 27 is in vol. VII., no. 684. 



864 Continental Congress 

to Charles Town I saw in a boat that was putting off as we landed on that 
side Squinting Frank, he woud not see me I tried to Catch his Eye but he 
looked down and I cou'd not till he got fairly off 

I find Jonathan told a lie when he returned home as an excuse for his 
Coming away from Annapolis. He went to see Mr. President Ware and 
told him the reason for his leaving the Committee was that they had Noth- 
ing to do. I had the fortune to meet the old President at Home when I 
called on him and undeceived him on that point. I shall put this into my 
next advertisement 

Frank has also told several untruths both to Ellery here and in Boston 
he too shall hear of them again. I hope you made a Committee malgre 
your ill bodings. I feel more for the Invisible State of the federal Gov- 
ernment than I can express at this time too when we know the Eyes of 
I-.ii rope are upon us. 'tis most mortifying to those who have any sense of 
the Dignity that shou'd be preserved if we ever mean to be respected, one 
thing I promise those Gentry that dissolved our Committee or rather dis- 
persed it I'll stick them in the Journals You know the whole of the sub- 
ject and as you are not in such a moving state as I am I wish you'd think 
of a sett of good Stinging resolves and put them into my hands. 8 I hope to 
see you by Sunday next Sevenight shall bring my mother sister and Cousin 
back with me. I fear I shall have no Opportunity of seeing any person 
from Connecticut here the object of saving a little money prevented a 
Delegate from being sent on either at first or on the Chairman's Letter 

My old Friend EDcry has been very kind and attentive and Howell 
meeting me par Hazard in the Streets of Providence flew to my Embi 
with all the rapture of a lover — he attended us and offered services as if 
nothing had ever happened He tells me John Brown will go forward to 
Congress — Adieu I fear I have tired you pray write me to New York 
where I shall stay a few days. 

1019. The Secretary of Congress to Dankl op St. Thomas 

Jenifer. 1 

Philada. i<) Octr. [784. 

I received your favour of the 7 accepting the Appointment to the beard 
of treasury, and wish it could have suited your conveniency to have nunc 
sooner. Mr. Morris closes his transactions with the end of last Month 
and though he continues to discharge the Engagements he had made, he 
contracts no new ones. So that business is partly at a stand until the board 
meets I have not received any advice from the other gentlemen. I mod 
heartily wish vou success in the discharge of your Office and that your 
integrity and abilities may be effectually seconded by the states so that 
you may be enabled to exert them with honor and satisfaction to yourself 
and to the essential interest and service of your Country. I shall lay yr. 
letter before Congress as soon aa they assemble. 2 

3 See nos. 1012-1017, ante. 
[1019] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Letter- Book of Charles Thomson. 

2 Jenifer had been chosen. June % a member of the board of treasury, but after- 
ward declined (Jotirtials, Nov. 30). as did also the two other members elected at the 
same time, Oliver Ellsworth and William Denning. See vol. VII. nos. 701 (note 2), 
736, 737, 740. 
