MEMORIAL OF SAMUEL H. PARSONS AND ASSOCIATES  - [May 8, 1787] To The United States in Congress assembled - The Memorial of the Associators for the purchase of Lands North West of the River Ohio by their Agent Samuel Holden Parsons Sheweth. that many of your Memorialists were Officers & Soldiers of the late foederal Army, who by Resolves of Congress are intitled to a grant of Lands; and others are public Creditors who are desirous of a Satisfaction of their Debts in the foederal Lands, and for that purpose have associated for purchasing and Settling a Tract of Country in the ungranted Lands of the United States under the Direction & Government of Congress They therefore pray that a Tract of Country within the Western Territory of the United States at some convenient Place may be granted them at a reasonable Price, upon their paying a Sum not exceeding One Million of Dollars nor less than five Hundred Thousand Dollars,” and that Such of the Associators as by the Resolutions of Congress are intitled to receive Lands for their military Services may have their Lands assignd them within the aforesaid Grant and as in Duty bound your Memorialists will pray & Dated in New York the 8" of May 1787” - SAM. H. PARSONS  Nº 51—Memorial—Sam H. Parsons Agent of the As- Sociators for the purchase of Lands on the Ohio–Read May 9" 1787 referred—Mr Carrington Mº King—M. Dane—M Madison M! Benson–Acted on July 23° 1787—see comm" book 
PETITION OF THE INHABITANTS OF POST VINCENNES [July 26, 1787] To the Honorable the Congress of the United States of North America. The humble address of the inhabitants of Post Vincennes Sheweth: That your petitioners have, for upwards of sixty years, inhabited this country, where the Indian nations on the Wabash allowed them to live and make settlements: That the kings of England maintained us in our rights and privileges, after the cession made them of this country by the king of France: * That the State of Virginia confirmed the same when they took possession of the post:” That when that State ceded to Congress their lands on the North-western side of the Ohio, they stipulated with your honorable body that the Inhabitants of the Illinois, and Post Vincennes should continue to enjoy the same rights, claims, and privileges which they had always enjoyed.” Your petitioners beg leave to observe, that, previous to their being subjects of the United States, being chiefly addicted to the Indian trade, they, in a great measure, overlooked the advantages that can be derived from the cultivation of lands, and consequently neglected to avail themselves of the willingness of their Sovereigns and Governors to grant them tracts sufficient for plantations. Contented to raise bread for our families, we neither extended our culture for the purpose of exportation, nor formed an idea of dividing among ourselves our fruitful country. The moment we were connected with the United States, we began to be sensible of the real value of lands; and our decreasing peltry trade pointed out to us the necessity of applying ourselves to that new kind of industry. It was then that a grant of a large tract of territory made to us by the Pianguicha “ Indians began to be recollected, and that a number of our neighbours came to partake with us the blessings of a fruitful soil and healthy climate For a number of years we had been neglected, and as it were forsaken by the power to whom we had willingly submitted—The resolves of Congress —the laws of America, respecting land-affairs, were utterly unknown to us. We had a grant from the Indians; we had settled the country; we had possessed it for a long series of years; our charter was as much (or indeed more) talked of among the Americans as among ourselves. . Our confidence rested upon those principles; and fully persuaded in the simplicity of our hearts, that our right to the tract granted to us by the Pianquicha Indians was as clear and indisputable as that of inheritance, we did not scruple to give every adventurer who came to live with us a plantation of four hundred acres; not forgetting, however, to leave those concessions subject to such regulations as might be hereafter made by Congress. As our acquaintance with our neighbours became more extensive, our charter began to appear to ourselves in a different light from what we had heretofore viewed it; and we are afraid it does not rest upon a sufficiently firm basis. We neither expect, nor wish, that a territory of two hundred and ten miles by seventy two should be exclusively appropriated to our small number— Accustomed to mediocrity, we do not wish for wealth, but for a mere competency. Reposing the most unbounded confidence in the justice, humanity and benevolence of the Honorable the Congress we solemnly surrender our charter, whatever it is, and throw ourselves upon your mercy. We have taken an exact account of the number of people now residing in the district of Post-Vincennes, and we humbly hope that the Honorable the Congress may be graciously pleased to grant us, in the vicinity of this place, as much land, for the use and sole benefit of the now inhabitants, as you in your wisdom may think adequate to our just right as ancient settlers, to our past sufferings, and present indigent circumstances. We beg leave to submit to your honorable body, our own expectations which, we hope, you will deem moderate, and grounded upon the principle of exciting among our- Selves a spirit of industry and activity, more than upon a love of extensive property. First. That every male inhabitant of this district, without discrimination of age, be entitled to five hundred acres of land. Second. That as much land as will be equal to the total quantity so granted be moreover conceded to the district as a community to be applied to public uses—such as building Court-houses, Jails, churches, bridges, repairing roads—&c. Upon these principles, and from the annexed calculation of the inhabitants of this district at the present aera,” the total number of acres of land, which your petitioners humbly expect to obtain from the Honorable the Congress, will amount to five hundred and twenty thousand, or thirty miles square, an inconsiderable territory, compared to that granted to us by the indians who, at the time they gave it to us, were thought to be proprietors of the country. If, to principles of common justice, it were necessary to add motives of compassion, we might tell the Honorable the Congress a long tale of uninterrupted distresses, oppressions, and calamities, heaped up upon us with as unremitted and wanton a tyranny as borne by us with unparalled patience. We might tell them that we were once a happy and wealthy people, until we fell a prey to the unquenchable rapacity of those whom we had received as friends; that we, after voluntarily and cheerfully becoming subjects of the State of Virginia were oppressed, plundered, deprived of the common rights of citizens by an army of petty tyrants who assumed powers which neither the legislature nor the Executive of their State had delegated to them. We might tell the Honorable the Congress that our attachment to the cause of America, and active zeal for its welfare, has subjected us to the enmity of those Indians who had, time immemorial, called us their fathers and friends; that we have, in repeated instances, exhausted our remaining substance, to make large presents to the Indians in order to stop their war-parties: That we are become as obnoxious to them as the Americans themselves, and have frequently endangered our lives, because we have refused to deliver up these our friends to their savage fury. These are facts to which all the Americans settled among us can bear witness. With a respectful confidence that the Honorable the Congress will listen to the justice of our humble petition, and look down upon us with an eye of commiseration, your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray for the welfare, honor and glory of the United States of North America. By Order, and in behalf of the inhabitants of Post Vincennes. J. M. P. LEGRACE first magistrate.” (Signed) PIERRE GAMELIN–M'g't. N– PERROT-Magistrate. POST VINCENNES, July 26" 1787 (signed) Antonie Gamelin - secretary & Greffier.  Address of the Inhabitants of Post Vincennes to Congress. July 26th, 1787."  (enclosed in letter—Feb' 21" 1788 from secy at War) Feb. 22" 1788—Referred Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvine Mr White
PETITION TO CONGRESS FROM POST VINCENNES, [August 7, 1787] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North-America The humble Address of the American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes Sheweth That your Petitioners, after a long & severe struggle for liberty, finding themselves, by the necessary contributions to the charges of a just & expensive war, by the declension of trade, and the consequent neglect of husbandry, reduced to poverty & misery, and seeing no prospect of relief at home, went to seek far distant countries where they might expect to raise a subsistance by their industry. Neither the distressing circumstance of leaving behind us the dear connexions of our youth, the country that gave us birth, the fields for which we bled; nor the tediousness of a journey of several months; nor the dangers to which we have been exposed from the elements, from the Indians, from a total want of provisions, were able to deter us from our undertaking. We had heard of a Charter under which the french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes held a considerable territory; we visited them, and found that their lands were such as answered all our wishes. The french chearfully invited us to settle ourselves among them: we purchased some of their ancient settlements, and obtained from their Court of justice warrants & Deeds for further locations within the boundaries of their Charter. Our industry became a spur to their's; from us they learnt the usefulness of husbandry; and, if there be any merit in promoting a love of rural employments, we flatter ourselves we have deserved well of mankind by disseminating the arts beneficial to human societies. We confess that at an early period previous to our arrival in this country, and lately, some unwarrantable proceedings very injurious to the good people here have taken place; but we are happy in the testimony of all the french settlers that not one of your Petitioners, in whose behalf they have wrote to Colonel Harmar, has in any shape been accessary to their sufferings. We had hitherto possessed our lands with all the security that the laws of our country had taught us to repose in the sacredness of a Charter. What must have been our surprise & concern when we lately understood that the rights of the french, a few ancient concessions excepted, had not a more solid foundation than a gift from the Indians, which tho' of an older date than the late glorious Revolution may perhaps be overruled, & which besides the french have offered to give up to Congress! Struck with amazement & consternation, we are at the eve of seeing our distresses renewed, with the additional anguish of deluded hope. A ray of comfort, however, throws yet a glimpse of light through our darkened prospect. We hope every thing from the equity & generosity of the Honorable the Congress; and confiding that they will be graciously pleased to grant to every male American inhabitant of this district, of any age whatever, a tract of five hundred acres of land, or whatever you may think proper, adjoining that of the french settlers, Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray for the welfare honor & glory of the United- States of North-America. By order & in behalf of the American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes BARTHOLOMEW TARDIVEAU, POSTE VINCENNES August 7”. 1787. Agent  Nº 6. 
PETITION TO CONGRESS FROM THE ILLINOIS COUNTRY  [August 27, 1787] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North-America The Petition of the American inhabitants of the Illinois “ humbly sheweth That, some time before the epocka that terminated a glorious war and secured independance to the sons of America, Your Petitioners, exhausted by military services & necessary contributions to the support of the Continental armies & other public charges, having nothing left but liberty and Spirits that could neither be borne down under the weight of poverty nor deterred by difficulties, determined to seek an asylum into some of the rich countries which the fate of war had subjected to the American empire. The fame of the fruitfulness of the Illinois lands had reached our ears: thither we directed our wandering course, unmindful of a long & perilous navigation, of the inclemency of the seasons, of the savage fury of innumerable Indian tribes through whom we had to fight our way. Invited to settle here by the ancient inhabitants, allured by the fertility of the soil, and above all encouraged by the hope that our settlements, made under the sanction of the State of Virginia, would be sacred & inattackable, we began to cultivate our lands with that unwearied activity that the love of happiness inspires, but which is only fostered up by the certainty of enjoying property undisturbed. When Virginia ceded this country to Congress, by a Deed subscribed by their Delegates in March 1784,” they stipulated in our behalf that the settlers who had professed themselves citizens of that State should have their possessions & claims confirmed to them; which was agreed to by Congress. Under these circumstances, Your Petitioners humbly conceive that the Proclamations of the Honorable the Congress, forbidding people to settle on the public lands on the North-western Side of the Ohio,” are not in any sense applicable to them. We did not come hither in defiance to the laws of our country, but under the protection of the State of Virginia then Sovereign of this territory: we did not settle on the public unappropriated lands of Congress, but on those that were the property of Virginia, which she has since confirmed, and Congress themselves warranted to us. We claim yet another title which, in our humble opinion, is not of less weight nor less respectable. An opinion has always prevailed in these countries that the french settlers have Charters for extensive tracts of territory; and within the compass as well as upon the faith of those Charters we have Settled ourselves. Such are the grounds on which we stand; but notwithstanding those titles which we had hitherto looked upon as sacred, a discouraging rumour is spread among us, which owes its birth to the Proclamations of Congress lately come to our Knowledge, that all the American settlers on this side the Ohio are to be turned off their lands by the first of September next. This unexpected piece of intelligence, we confess, did at first allarm not a little Your Petitioners; but after recollecting ourselves, trusting in the sacredness of the rights which we derive from the State of Virginia, and confiding in the justice of the Honorable the Congress, we are emboldened to hope that you will be pleased to confirm our possessions by a Solemn Deed, and further to take into your gracious consideration the peculiar circumstances of our hitherto precarious Situation. When we began our Settlements in this country, we found ourselves Surrounded by a great number of Indian tribes whose hostile dispositions towards the Americans did not permit us to extend our culture & define properly the lands which we meant to occupy. Penned up in forts & small garrisons, we have been obliged to raise our subsistance out of a few fields tilled in common; and, after a severe struggle of many years, the greater number among us have not yet been able to ascertain and secure their possessions. In this difficult predicament, Your Petitioners humbly intreat that the Honorable the Congress be pleased to ascertain their unsettled Situation, and confirm to them a Grant of five hundred acres of land for every male inhabitant, without any discrimination of age, or else whatever quantity your wisdom may think proper.—Should this appear to be too great a favour, We beg leave to observe to Your Honorable body that this part of the country is almost entirely destitute of wood, & that this circumstance makes it necessary to have a larger extent of ground to answer the various purposes of husbandry. With a respectful confidence that the Honorable the Congress will not overlook our grounded expectations as claimants under the french Charters, our rights as Settlers under the State of Virginia, and our sufferings as a wandering family, Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray for the honor welfare & glory of the United-States of North-America. By order and in behalf of the American inhabitants of the Illinois BARTHOLOMEW TARDIVEAU Agent KASKASKIA August the 27" 1787./.  Nº 7. 
PETITION OF JOHN CLEVES SYMMES FOR A GRANT OF LAND [August 29, 1787] To his excellency the president of Congress, the petition of John Cleves Symmes” of New Jersey sheweth, That your petitioner encouraged by the resolutions of Congress of the 23" and 27" of July last,” stipulating the conditions of a transfer of federal lands on the Sioto and Muskingum rivers unto Winthrop Seargeant and Manaseh Cutler esquires and their associates of New England, is induced on behalf of the Citizens of the United States westward of Connecticut who also wish to become purchasers of federal lands, to pray that the honorable the Congress will be pleased to direct that a contract be made by the honorable the commissioners of the treasury board with your petitioner for himself and his associates in all respects similar in form and matter to the said grant made to Mess" Sargeant and Cutler differing only in quantity and place where, and instead of two townships for the use of an university, that one only be assigned for the benefit of an academy. That by such transfer to your petitioner and his associates, on their complying with the terms of sale, the fee may pass of all the lands lying within the following limits, viz. Begining at the mouth of the great Miami river, thence runing up the Ohio to the mouth of the little Miami river, thence up the main stream of the little Miami river to the place where a due west line to be continued from the western termination of the northern boundary line of the grant to Mess" Sargeant, Cutler & company shall intersect the said little Miami river, thence due west continuing the said western line to the place where the said line shall intersect the main branch or stream of the great Miami river, thence down the great Miami to the place of begining. JNo C. SYMMES. NEW YORK the 29* of August 1787 The Committee consisting of [blank] to whom was referred the aforesaid petition report that—that the said petition be referred to the board of Treasury to take order—  No 61 Pet. J. C. Symmes read 29 Sept. 1787 Sept 21 Referred to Mr Dane M' Grayson M! Clarke M' Smith Mr Johnson Oct 2 1787 Referred to the board of treasury to take order * 
PETITION TO CONGRESS FROM THE ILLINOIS COUNTRY  [September 15, 1787] To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North-America The Humble Petition of the french inhabitants of Kaskaskia, Cahokia, Prairie du rocher, & village Sº Philipp" Sheweth That the people of this country of the Illinois conceive themselves to be on the eve of total destruction, unless the justice, humanity, & benevolence of the Honorable the Congress hasten to rescue them from impending ruin, by timely taking into their gracious consideration the wretched state of the district. Placed at an immense distance from the seat of the foederal government of America, Your Petitioners have always lived in a dangerous security concerning the lands which they were wont to consider as their own; and it is but of late that they have been awakened to fear & anxiety.” We hear from all quarters that the Wabash & Illinois countries are offered for sale, and that large tracts of these territories have already been purchased. In a few months, perhaps, the whole will be disposed of; and Your Petitioners, whose ancestors made the first Settlements here, & who have been faithfully attached to the United-States from the beginning of the late glorious Revolution, will find themselves contracted within the narrow bounds of the very inconsiderable improvements they have made in the vicinity of their villages. Soon, the industrious Americans will convert our forests into flourishing plantations: their furrows will reach to the fences of our gardens: our peltry-trade, already much decayed, must be entirely annihilated by the rapid march of husbandry, the retreat of the Indian nations, & the flight of the wild game. This accelerated progress of tillage, we Know, is infinitely more beneficial to mankind than the present unimproved state of an extensive & rich country; and we do not wish to check, but to be permitted to partake with our neighbours & friends, the advantages of encouraged activity & industry. As original Settlers, as faithful friends to the cause of independance, as an unhappy people who have lost their all by a System of oppression which we have fully displayed in our Memorial, We beg, & humbly hope that the Honorable the Congress may be graciously pleased to Grant to every male inhabitant of these villages of Kaskaskia Cahokia, Prairie du Rocher, & Sº Philipp, without any discrimination of age, a tract of five hundred acres of land, Gratis & for ever, in the vicinity of their respective villages. full of the most respectful confidence in the equity & generosity of the Honorable the Congress, Your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray for the welfare, honor, & glory of the United-States of North-America. KASKASKIA September 15* 1787. By order & in behalf of the french inhabitants of the Illinois" BARTHOLOMEW TARDIVEAU” 
EXPLANATORY MEMORIAL FROM POST VINCENNES AND THE ILLINOIS COUNTRY  [February 28, 1788) To the Honorable the Congress of the United-States of North-America The french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes on the Wabash; Kaskaskia, Cahokia, Prairie du rocher, & village Sº Philipp in the Illinois country, impressed with the most respectful confidence that their respective Petitions, praying for a gift of five hundred acres of land to every male inhabitant, will be favorably regarded by the Honorable the Congress, beg leave further to elucidate their situation & the objects of their demands.” The inhabitants of Poste Vincennes possess, Since the epocka of their first settlement, a Common pasture-ground for their cattle, under one fence, of about two miles in depth & eight miles in front, two thirds of which are ponds & impracticable morasses. A few among them took up, under the authority of their former governors, small tracts in the woods of between eight & twelve acres in Superficies, where they used to make their sugar, & which, from that circumstance, they call their sugar-camps. All the farming lands which they have formerly obtained, besides their Common, do not amount to four, or at most, five thousand acres. Since the conquest made of that country by the State of Virginia, the Court has granted to every American adventurer four hundred acres, subject to such regulations as might be made hereafter by Congress. Not half a dozen of the french have availed themselves of that opportunity of obtaining lands. Their Charter, or the cession made them by the Pianquicha “ Indians in the year 1768 begins at Pointe coupée "twelve leagues above the Poste by water, down to the mouth of White river twelve leagues below said Poste; and is to extend forty leagues to the Eastward & thirty to the Westward which contains about eight millions of acres. All the bottom from the mouth of the Kaskaskia river to Prairie du rocher, & from the hills along that river to the Mississipi has been long since apportioned by government to the inhabitants of these two villages, & contains from eighteen to twenty thousand acres; and, as the number of their male inhabitants is two hundred and Seventy, this gives Seventy four acres to every one of them, including their Common which is very extensive. The Deputy County-Lieutenant of this district,” in conformity to the direction of Colonel Todd "* appointed by the State of Virginia County-Lieutenant, has granted to some few Americans & french tracts of Eighty, One hundred & Sixty, and three hundred acres, subject to be hereafter controuléd by Congress. The Jesuits had at Kaskaskia a grant from the King of france of four Square leagues.” The village of Cahokia is included within a grant of four square leagues made in the year 1742 by Mess" De Boisbriant & Desursins Commandants to the Missionaries of the order of Sº Sulpice.” In 1768, the Bishop of Quebec & these fathers ceded to the inhabitants of Cahokia the usufruit of this grant.” Within its bounds they have the few improvements they have made; and some concessions have been granted by their court to the Americans Settled at Grandruisseau,” two leagues & a half from the village. The remainder of the Americans live on the intermediate Space between village S' Philipp & the boundaries of the Cahokia Grant.” from these premises it will appear why the inhabitants of Cahokia did not join with the other districts in giving up their Charter, because it is not immediately vested in them. The inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Several districts of the Illinois, in consequence of the above Statement, presume with diffidence to pray, That the five hundred acres of land, for which they have petitioned the Honorable the Congress, may be granted to them, exclusive of the small tracts they are already possessed of in virtue of concessions to them made, previous to the country being taken possession of by the State of Virginia. That it be ordered that all the grants made by the County-Lieutenant or his deputy, and by our respective courts, since we became subjects of Virginia, shall be confirmed to the respective Grantees; provided that so much as has been so conceded to them shall be part of what may be granted by Congress. That, in consideration of the poverty of the inhabitants, the fees of the Surveyors, employed in laying off the different tracts that may be granted to these districts, be paid by Congress. That, as an alleviation of our distresses & losses during these ten last years, the lands of the french inhabitants of these districts may be exempted from taxation for so long as it will please Congress to order it. That the lands to be granted to the french & American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes, on the Eastern side of the Wabash, begin at the upper opening of the false channel vulgarly called Le faux chenal, thence going up the Wabash, so that the depth from this river shall be one third of the length along said river, & include the whole quantity. That the boundaries of the lands to be granted to the french & American inhabitants of the different districts of the Illinois be from the mouth of the Rivière à Marie,” up & along the Mississippi to the upper limit of the Cahokia Charter, along said limit to a North-& southline that shall intersect an East-& West line from the mouth of the Rivière à Marie, so as to include the whole quantity. And finally, that the grants to the french be distinguish’d & separate from those to be made to the American inhabitants. New york february 28* 1788. By order & in behalf of the french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois* BARTHOLOMEW TARDIVEAU Agent  Nº 4. ** Marys River, in Randolph County, Illinois.
B. TARDIVEAU TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS [March 2, 1788) SIR I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency Sundry papers which the french & American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois country have ordered me to lay before the Honorable the Congress: They are numbered as follows; No 1. the Petition of the french inhabitants of Poste Vincennes 40 ... the Petition of the french inhabitants of the Illinois.” the Memorial of the french of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois* the explanatory Memorial of the same * A memorandum of articles given by the french of Poste Vincennes to the Indians to Stop a war-party.” the Petition of the American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes” the Petition of the Americans of the Illinois" the powers given me by the french & Americans” Numbers of the male inhabitants” I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir YourExcellency's Most obedient Most humble Servant B: TARDIVEAU Agent for the french & American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois NEW-YORK March 29, 1788.  List of papers presented by Mº Tardiveau & referred with his letter of Feby 9th 1788 49 to Mr Wadsworth Mr Irvine Mr White—Read Feby 25* 1788 
B. TARDIWEAU TO GOVERNOR ST. CLAIR [March 20, 1788) SIR. The french and American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois take the liberty to address Your Excellency as their natural patron & protector, and humbly hope that the love of justice & benevolence by which you are so eminently characterize will induce You to afford them that Support which their respect prompts them to look for in the paternal affection of Your Excellency. They have had the honour to present to Congress Several Petitions & Memorials, tending to obtain five hundred acres of land for every male inhabitant of their respective districts; * and flatter themselves that this demand will meet with the gracious compliance of that Honorable Body. But it may perhaps happen that they might think proper to put off the final decision of this business untill Your Excellency has taken up his residence in this country of which we are happy to hear that you have been appointed Governor. Should such a delay be likely to take place, we beg leave to acquaint Your Excellency with our fears, and to sollicit your Honorable mediation to the end that the hopes we have presumed to conceive may not be blasted by the event. We understand that Your Excellency is going to hold a treaty with the Northern Indians: that will in all appearance detain you two or three months; the journey to Poste Vincennes & from thence to the different districts of the Illinois, the organization of Your Government in those Several parts of it, the time necessary to obtain the information which you may wish to transmit to Congress, and the long interval that Shall elapse before your dispatches can reach that Honorable Body; all these circumstances put it beyond any doubt that it will be the Spring next year before they Shall receive them. A Congress composed of new members will have at that time succeeded the present one, and there will be a necessity of going thro' the whole business over again. And if their attention was taken up with matters of greater moment, such as the establishment of the New Constitution, as it is probable it Shall, our interests, it is to be fear'd, will be laid aside. During that period, which will be lengthened by our uneasiness & apprehensions, lands may be Sold by Congress, and not unlikely those very lands that join us. Where, then, shall we take refuge? What remedy shall we Seek from distress and poverty? If we dar'd to Surmise that Congress have no other motive for that delay than a desire of Knowing who, among the American Settlers, is entitled to a gift of land, we wou'd offer it as our humble opinion that the Charter, if Congress are pleas'd to grant us one, might be express'd in a manner that wou'd exclude all illegal claims, by giving [blank] Hundred acres to every American who had resided in these districts before the 1* of March 1784 at which epocha the State of Virginia ceded this country to Congress. Confident, Sir, that Your Excellency's paternal heart will feel a pure Satisfaction at having it in your pow'r to signalize the first deed of your government by an act of benevolence, and at observing at your landing that gratitude will be the first Sentiment that shall meet you, we humbly intreat Your Excellency to deign to Support the weak efforts of our Agent in our behalf. With the most profound respect, we have the honor to be Sir Your Excellency's Most obedient most humble Servants in behalf of the french & American inhabitants of Poste Vincennes & the Illinois B: TARDIVEAU Agent NEW-YORK March 20th 1788. 
MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS FROM JUDGES PARSONS AND WARNUM [April 8, 1788] To the honorable the Congress of the United States. Samuel Holden Parsons and James Mitchel Varnum, two of the Judges appointed for the Western territory, humbly represent, that they have exhibited to the Accountant in the Treasury office, certain claims by them respectively made. Should those claims appear inadmissible, without a special order, they beg the attention of your honorable body to the reasons they have assigned in their support.— The facts stated, they werefy upon their honor. The conclusions from those facts, they submit, with great deference, to your decision.— Bound by the strongest principles of attachment and gratitude, they shall be happy only in the prosperity and glory of the United States. April 8th. 1788. SAMUEL H. PARSONS JAMES M. WARNUM.  N. 54. Memorial to Congress. by S. H Parsons J M. Varnum—Read 23 June 1788.-June 24 Referred to the board of treasy to report Acted on July 9" 1788–% 
MEMORIAL OF ROYAL FLINT RELATIVE TO LAND GRANT  [August 8, 1788) To the Honorable the Congress of the United States. The memorial of Royal Flint for himself & associates most respectfully sheweth, That your memorialist has been informed, that the report of your honorable committee, on the application of George Morgan, for the purchase of a tract of western territory,” may tend to create some doubt in the construction of certain reports & resolves relative to proposals submitted to the Honorable Congress, by your memorialist & Joseph Parker, the 18" of October last.* Your memorialist therefore humbly prays that he may be heard before the said Committee & mention his reasons for an amendment to their report previous to its being passed into an act, and your memorialist as in duty bound shall ever pray. ROYAL FLINT for himself & Associates. NEW YORK August, 8. 1788  N. 29 Memorial of Royal Flint read 11. Aug. 1788. Referred to Mr Williamson Mr Otis Mr Baldwin 
MEMORIAL OF JOHN ETTWEIN: LANDS RESERVED FOR THE CHRISTIAN INDIANS  [August 29, 1788) To HIS EXCELLENCY CYRUS GRIFFIN, Esquire, President of the Congress of the United States in America, the Memorial and Petition of John Ettwein of Bethlehem in the County of Northampton in the State of Pennsylvania, President of the Brethrens Society for Propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, humbly sheweth That the Honorable the Congress by their Resolve and Ordinance of the twentieth of May in the Year 1785. were pleased to reserve the three forsaken Indian Towns Gnadenhütten, Shoenbrun and Salem on the Muskingum, for the Remnant of the suffering Christian Indians and their Descendants—And that the said Honorable Body were further pleased, in the Month of August 1787. to order a Quantity of Land around and adjoyning the said Towns to the Amount of Ten thousand Acres in the Whole to be set apart and the Property thereof vested in a Society of the United Brethren for Civilizing the Indians, and Promoting Christianity, in Trust for the Christian Indian Congregation.” - That thereupon Your Petitioner in October last, made Application to the Board of Treasury for further Instruction, how to proceed to get the said three Towns and their Improvements with Ten thousand Acres of Land adjoyning, to be surveyed—when the Honorable the Comissioners allowed Two thousand Acres as appertaining to the said three Towns, so that the whole shall not exceed Twelve thousand Acres, and promised that this Tract shall be laid off as soon as the Geographer, M. Hutchins should be going that Way. That a Supplement to an Ordinance,” lately published, has made the Directors of the Brethrens Society for Propagating the Gospel among the Heathen very desirous, that the granted Lands may be surveyed as soon as possible, being apprehensive of Difficulties, on Account of their being surrounded by the District appointed in October last for the Officers of the late Army, and being sensible that a Survey of the Gift to the Society in Trust for the Christian Indians will greatly facilitate the Location of the Warrants granted to the Officers. That at a Consultation with the Geographer, it was found almost impracticable, on Account of the Courses of the River Muskingum, to bring the said three Towns into One regular Tract, without enlarging it to near three times the Quantity of Land granted to the Society, and that the beneficent Intention of the Honorable the Congress could not be accomplished, without the said Lands being laid out in two or three different Tracts. That the Society sensible of the Increase of the Expence in Surveying the said Land in different Tracts, will chearfully bear such a proportionable Part of the Expences as the said Increase may amount to, and willingly advance the Expences in hopes of being reimbursed at a future day. That upon Application to the Geographer, that the said Lands, if possible, may be surveyed this Fall, he answered in Writing: “I am well convinced of the Practicability of my being able to return Platts of the Survey into the Treasury Office, before the Commencement of the ensuing Year, and that without interfering with the Bussiness I am now on my Way to execute”. Now Your Petitioner most humbly prays in the Name of the said Society, That Your Excellency will be pleased to order Thomas Hutchins, Esquire, the Geographer, to have the above mentioned reserved and granted Lands, surveyed without Loss of Time in two or three different Tracts, as the said Geographer shall find convenient for the Society. And Your Petitioner further prays that in the Sale of the intermediate Spaces or Tracts, between the Lands so to be laid out, the Society may have the Preference, they paying for the same at the Rate at which such Lands are granted to others. And Your Petitioner as in Duty bound, shall ever pray JOHN ETTWEIN BETHLEHEM August 29. 1788.  N. 22 To His Excellency Cyrus Griffin Esq. President of the Honb" the Congress the Memorial & Petition of John Ettwein Read Sep' 2" 1788 Referred to—Mr Clark—Mr Williamson Mº Madison—Acted on Sep' 3" 1788
GEORGE MORGAN TO THE BOARD OF TREASURY  PROSPECT NEW JERSEY, Sept' 9" 1788.- GENTLEMEN The New-Jersey Land Society, disgusted with the Treatment of their Application to Congress, have dissolved their Association of which I esteem it my duty to inform you.” I have the honor to be with great respect, Gentlemen, Your most Obt Serv" (signed) GEO: MORGAN. THE HON ble COMMISS” OF THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.—  Compared with the Original in the Office of the Board of Treasury. Wº Duer Secy. Letter Sep' 9" 1788–George Morgan Esq. that the land society of New-Jersey have dissolved their Association 38– Read Sep 13" 1788– 
MEMORIAL OF JOHN ETTWEIN: LANDS RESERVED FOR THE CHRISTIAN INDIANS  [August 29, 1788) To HIS EXCELLENCY CYRUS GRIFFIN, Esquire, President of the Congress of the United States in America, the Memorial and Petition of John Ettwein of Bethlehem in the County of Northampton in the State of Pennsylvania, President of the Brethrens Society for Propagating the Gospel among the Heathen, humbly sheweth That the Honorable the Congress by their Resolve and Ordinance of the twentieth of May in the Year 1785. were pleased to reserve the three forsaken Indian Towns Gnadenhütten, Shoenbrun and Salem on the Muskingum, for the Remnant of the suffering Christian Indians and their Descendants—And that the said Honorable Body were further pleased, in the Month of August 1787. to order a Quantity of Land around and adjoyning the said Towns to the Amount of Ten thousand Acres in the Whole to be set apart and the Property thereof vested in a Society of the United Brethren for Civilizing the Indians, and Promoting Christianity, in Trust for the Christian Indian Congregation.” - That thereupon Your Petitioner in October last, made Application to the Board of Treasury for further Instruction, how to proceed to get the said three Towns and their Improvements with Ten thousand Acres of Land adjoyning, to be surveyed—when the Honorable the Comissioners allowed Two thousand Acres as appertaining to the said three Towns, so that the whole shall not exceed Twelve thousand Acres, and promised that this Tract shall be laid off as soon as the Geographer, M. Hutchins should be going that Way. That a Supplement to an Ordinance,” lately published, has made the Directors of the Brethrens Society for Propagating the Gospel among the Heathen very desirous, that the granted Lands may be surveyed as soon as possible, being apprehensive of Difficulties, on Account of their being surrounded by the District appointed in October last for the Officers of the late Army, and being sensible that a Survey of the Gift to the Society in Trust for the Christian Indians will greatly facilitate the Location of the Warrants granted to the Officers. That at a Consultation with the Geographer, it was found almost impracticable, on Account of the Courses of the River Muskingum, to bring the said three Towns into One regular Tract, without enlarging it to near three times the Quantity of Land granted to the Society, and that the beneficent Intention of the Honorable the Congress could not be accomplished, without the said Lands being laid out in two or three different Tracts. That the Society sensible of the Increase of the Expence in Surveying the said Land in different Tracts, will chearfully bear such a proportionable Part of the Expences as the said Increase may amount to, and willingly advance the Expences in hopes of being reimbursed at a future day. That upon Application to the Geographer, that the said Lands, if possible, may be surveyed this Fall, he answered in Writing: “I am well convinced of the Practicability of my being able to return Platts of the Survey into the Treasury Office, before the Commencement of the ensuing Year, and that without interfering with the Bussiness I am now on my Way to execute”. Now Your Petitioner most humbly prays in the Name of the said Society, That Your Excellency will be pleased to order Thomas Hutchins, Esquire, the Geographer, to have the above mentioned reserved and granted Lands, surveyed without Loss of Time in two or three different Tracts, as the said Geographer shall find convenient for the Society. And Your Petitioner further prays that in the Sale of the intermediate Spaces or Tracts, between the Lands so to be laid out, the Society may have the Preference, they paying for the same at the Rate at which such Lands are granted to others. And Your Petitioner as in Duty bound, shall ever pray JOHN ETTWEIN BETHLEHEM August 29. 1788.  N. 22 To His Excellency Cyrus Griffin Esq. President of the Honb" the Congress the Memorial & Petition of John Ettwein Read Sep' 2" 1788 Referred to—Mr Clark—Mr Williamson Mº Madison—Acted on Sep' 3" 1788
MEMORIAL FROM FATHER GIBAULT TO GOVERNOR ST. CLAIR, No 24, Translation 1" [May 1, 1790) To his Excellency Arthur Sº Clair, Major General of the army of the United States, Governor of the Territory possessed by the United States North west of the River Ohio &c. &c. The undersigned memorialist has the honor to represent to your Excellency. That from the moment of the conquest of the Illinois by Colonel George Roger Clark, he has not been backward in venturing his life on the many occasions in which he found that his presence was useful and sometimes necessary. And at all times sacrificing his property, which he gave for the support of the Troops at the same price that he could have received in spanish dollars, and for which however he has received only paper dollars, of which he has had no information since he sent them addressed to the Commissioner of Congress, who required a Statement of the depreciation of them at the Belle Rivière in 1783, with an express promise in reply, that particular attention should be paid to his account because it was known to be no way exaggerated. In reality he parted with his Tithes and his Beasts only to set an example to his Parishioners, who began to perceive that it was intended to pillage them and abandon them afterwards, which really took place. The want of seven thousand eight hundred Livres, of which the non payment of the american notes has deprived him the use, has obliged him to sell two good Slaves who would now be the support of his old age, and for the want of whom he now finds himself dependent on the public, who although well served, are very rarely led to keep their promises, except that part, who, employing his time in their service, are supported by the secular power, that is to say, by the civil Government. The love of his Country and of liberty have also led the memorialist to reject all the advantages offered to him by the Spanish Government. And he endeavoured by every means in his power, by exertions and exhortations, and by letters to the principal inhabitants, to retain every person under the Dominion of the United States, in expectation of better times, and giving them to understand that our lives and property being employed twelve years in the aggrandisement and preservation of the conquests of the united States, would at last receive an acknowledgment and be compensated by the enlightened is This document was enclosure no. 4 in the report of the Secretary of State, Feb. 17, 1791 (A.S.P., Pub. Lands, 1, 18–22), and enclosure no. 24 in that of St. Clair, Feb. 10, 1791, post, p. 335. 1° The original has not been found; the translation is contemporary.and upright Ministers who sooner or later would come to examine into, and relieve us from our sad situation. We begin to see the accomplishment of these hopes, under the happy Government of your Excellency, and as your Memorialist has reason to believe, from proofs which would be too long to explain here, one of the number who has been the most forward in risking his life and fortune for his country.” He also hopes that his demand will be listened to favorably. It is this. The missionaries, like Lords, have at all times possessed two Tracts of land near this village, one three acres in front which produces but little Hay, three quarters being useless by a great morass— the other of two acres in front, which may be cultivated, and which the Memorialist will have cultivated with care, and proposes to have a Dwelling erected on it, with a Garden and Orchard, in case his claim is accepted. Your Excellency may think perhaps that this might injure some of the inhabitants; but it will not. It would be difficult to hire them to cause an enclosure to be made of the size of these Tracts, so much land have they more than they can cultivate. May it please your Excellency then to grant them to the memorialist as belonging to the Domain of the United States, and to give him a Concession to be enjoyed in full propriety in his private name, and not as to a missionary and Priest to pass to his successor, otherwise the memorialist, not wishing to labour for others, would not accept it. It is for the services he has already rendered and those which he still hopes to render as far as circumstances may offer and he may be capable, and particularly on the bounty with which you relieve those who stand in need of assistance, that he founds his demand. In hopes of being soon of the number of those who praise Heaven for your fortunate arrival in this Country, and who desire your prosperity in every thing, your memorialist has the honor of being with the most profound respect " Your Excellency's Most obedient and Most humble Servant P. GIBAULT, Priest KAHOKIA May 1* 1790 
MEMORIAL OF FATHER GIBAULT AND OTHERS TO GOVERNOR ST. CLAIR  (Nº 6) Translation [June 9, 1790) To his Excellency Arthur Sº Clair Esq’ Governor and Commander in § of the Territory of the United States North West of the River Ohio. The Memorial of the Inhabitants of Kaskaskia, la Prairie du Rocher and Cahokia, County of Sº Clair. - Humbly sheweth That by an Act of the Congress of 20° June 1788,” it was declared that the lands theretofore possessed by the said inhabitants should be surveyed at their expense, and that this clause appears to them neither necessary nor adapted to quiet the minds of the people. It does not appear necessary, because from the establishment of the Colony to this day, they have enjoyed their property and possessions without disputes or law suits on the subject of their limits; that the Surveys of them were made at the time the concessions were obtained from their ancient Kings, Lords, or Commandants; and that each of them knew what belonged to him, without attempting an encroachment on his neighbour, or fearing that his neighbour would encroach on him. It does not appear adapted to pacify them, because instead of assuring to them the peaceable possession of their ancient inheritances, as they have enjoyed it till now, that clause obliges them to bear expences, which in their present situation, they are absolutely incapable of paying, and for the failure of which they must be deprived of their lands. Your Excellency is an Eyewitness of the poverty to which the inhabitants are reduced, and of the total want of provisions to subsist on. Not knowing where to find a morsel of bread to nourish their families, by what means can they support the expence of a survey which has not been sought for on their parts, and for which it is conceived by them there is no necessity? Loaded with misery and groaning under the weight of misfortunes, accumulated since the virginia Troops entered their Country, the unhappy inhabitants throw themselves under the protection of your Excellency, and take the liberty to solicit you to lay their deplorable situation before Congress. And as it may be interesting for the united States to know exactly the extent and limits of their ancient possessions, in order to ascertain the lands which are yet at the disposal of Congress, it appears to them, in their humble opinion, that the expence of survey ought more properly to be borne by Congress for whom alone it is useful, than by them who do not feel the necessity of it. Besides this is no object for the united States; but it is great, too great for a few unhappy beings who your Excellency sees yourself are scarcely able to support their pitiful existence. To these motives they venture to add that of the generosity worthy of a great people: the taking upon them a burthen too heavy for a small number of unhappy individuals will give lustre to their dignity. They venture to hope that the paternal goodness of your Excellency towards your adopted Children will induce you to present their humble supplication to the honorable Congress, and that you will second it with your protection.” They will ever pray to heaven for the preservation and prosperity of your Excellency.” COUNTY OF St CLAIR June 9th 1790 P: Gibault. ptre.” J" Dumoulin Clemand X Trotia 90 Augustrotie "" Louis Lebrun Veuve Beaulieu Michele Beaulieux Pierre La 98 Henry Biron * Charles X Codron 1 P: Billett.” Barbau. Francois Janis. Antoine X Bienvenu J" Baptiste X Gendron. Baptis Janis. B: Tardiveau. B* Dubuyus * Nicholas X Boismanu Philipe Gervais Joseph Cuire * At: Girardin. Philipe Engel. Pierre Cabolier * Joseph Lambert M. Ducharme Barbau fils.” Louis X Relle Pierre X Butaux.” pour marque Louis X Labonde. Joseph X Blais.” Francois X Tibot 10 Joseph X [Thibault] Pier des Gaiez " Jacque Degaiez.” Baptiste Cot * Joseph X “ Francois X 1" Charle X Germin " Joseph X B " Rene X Beauvet. Etiene X Artoin." Joseph X Bettie" Louis X. Bergeront * Francois X Capatie "" Marin X Panerase * J. Baptis X Montreuil “ Louis X. Wade * Etien X Page * Badiste X Capatie “ Glode X Lemieu º Badiste X Mersie 25 Josephe X Tibot * Aman X Tellie 20 Baptis X Tomur * Louis X Grole * Louis X Laderoute * Badiste X Chartran * Jerome X Dani " Pierre X Git * Michel X Dani 40 August X Girardin Baptis X Cretis “ Tomas X Wing 30 Baptis X Laderout * Charle X Gill Jaque X Devegnes.” Loran X Amelin * 
MEMORIAL OF THE ILLINOIS AND WABASH LAND COMPANIES  [April 11, 1792) To the Senate of the United States The Memorial of the Subscribers, representing the Ilinois and Wabash Land Company Respectfully sheweth That they have seen the Report, which your Committee have made upon the former Memorial on Behalf of the said Company" That the said Committee have assumed, as Law, and as the Basis of their Report, a Principle, which, in the humble Opinion of your Memoralists, is not founded on the Law of the Land. Wherefore your Memoralists pray that they may be heard, personally or by Counsel, before you, in Opposition to the Principle of the said Report 11th April 1792. JAMES WILSON WILLIAM SMITH JNo SHEE  Legis' 2" Cong: Sess: 1" Memorial of James Wilson and others, representing the Ilinois and Wabash Land Companies, praying to be heard in opposition to the report of a Committee on their former petition April 11" 1792. Lye upon the Table 
PETITION OF THE FRENCH INHABITANTS OF GALLIPOLIS  [December 22, 1792] Petition des cy devant francais habitants de Gallipolis à L'honorable Congrès des Etats Unis de L'Amerique Representé º Que Les français habitants de Gallipolis ont acquis en france En L'année 1790 des Terres Sittuee dans Le territoire Nord-ouest des Etats Unis, d'une Compagnie ameriquaine formée Sous le Nom de la Compagnie du Scioto par un acte passé Entre les Associés de Cette Compagnie le [blank] Joel Barlow agent legalement autorisé pour la vente de ces terres Par les dits associés Repandit dans Paris et dans toute La france des Plans et des Prospectus dont les habitants susdits soumettent La Véracité à L'honorable Congrés. Les avantages qu'offroient ces prospectus les facilites qu'ils annoncoient pour faire dans Ces contrees Eloignees un Etablisseme[nt] Indépendant Déterminerent dans le moment de Crise ou Le trouvoit a lors la france, une acquisition trés Considerable et une Emigration de Mille ou Douze Cents Ames, Parmi les qu'elles ou Comptoit plusieurs Personnes distinguees par leur Naissance, leur Rang dans la société, et leur fortune, Le plus Grand nombre étoit formé d'hommes Industrieux de Presque toutes Les Classes de la société qui ayant perdu Par la Révolution française une Grande partie de Leur fortune en Rassemblerent les débris pour Venie Jouir dans un Pais Libre et tranquille de tous les avantages annoncés d'une maniere si pompeuse et Si publique par la Compagnie du scioto y défricher a l'abri de Tout Danger des Champs fertiles ou y Cultiver les arts paisibles aux quels ils Avoient Consacré Leur Vie. Les Acquereurs furent Confirmes dans leurs projèts et Rassurés sur leurs Craintes par toutes les apparances légales qu'on leur presenta et par tous Les moyens de seduction qu'on mit en Oeuvre pour appuyer la solidité des titres Sur les quels ils achettoient et la preuve la plus frapante qu'on puisse en apporter, Est le nombre Considérable d'acquisitions faites par des hommes detoutes les professions, avec une Confiance et une bonne foi peu Communes dans des affaires de cette Espece. Il faut en convenir, ce qui mit le comble a la seduction, fut le Caractere Connu de la nation a La quelle appartenoient les personnes avec les quelles on traitoit, et la haute opinion qu'on a En france a tant de titres de la bonnefoy et de la Loyanté Americaine et de la facilité que trouveroient des francais à obtenir Justice du Gouvernement des Etats Unis, contre La fraude et la deception. L'Emigration qui Commença au mois de fevrier 1790 dura Jusqu'a la fin du mois d'aout de la même année trois des quatre Premiers Batiments qui arriverent en Amerique Chargés d'Emigrants francais se Reunirent à Aléxandrie vers le Commencements du mois de may, peu de tems aprés leur arriveé ils furent visités par des agents de W"° Duer Sur Intendant de la Compagnie du scioto ces agents Etoient autoriseés à traites avec Eux au nom de cette Compagnie et à Leur procurer les moyens de se Rendre au Lieu de leur destination. Le Resultat de Cette Négotiation fut un acte passé Entre Wº° Duer au nom de sa Compagnie et les Emigrants francais sous le titre de Conventions. On prend Soin par un article particuliere de ces Conventions de Rassurer les Emigrants Sur les Craintes fondées qu'on leur avoit inspirées à leur arrivée des Excurtions des Sauvages dans la Contrée qu'ils alloient occuper. Contrée dont on avoit pris tant desoin de Leur Vanter en france la tranquilité et la paix. Les Emigrants partirent d'Alexandrie vers la fin du mois de Juin et furent arretés à Winchester Sous divers pretestes Jusqu'au mois de septembre Suivant. Ils furent Joints dans cette ville Par des Passayers de divers Batiments, et ils arriverent enfin à Gallipolis a la fin du mois d'octobre de la même annee " Depuis leur arrivée ils sonts reduits a Cultiver autour de l'Enceinte de cette Ville le Peu de terrein qu'on n'a pas pu Refuser à leurs importunites sur un fond qui dit on appartient à une autre Compagnie et dont on les menace aujourd'huy de les déposeder. De Mille ou douze Cents personnes qui Sont passées en amerique Seduites par les offres avantageuses de la Compagnie du scioto quatre Cents Seulement se Sont rendues à Gallipolis, et ce nombre se trouve aujourd'huy reduit à deux Cents Cinquante qui par la Confiance qu'ils ont mise en la Compagnie du scioto et en La justice des Etats Unis ont. En La Constance de lutter Contré les obstacles detour Les Genres, et de braver les Perils d'une Guerre affreuse.—Les pertes Enormes et Irreparables qu'ils ont. Essayées par cette Guerre, la perte plus, Irreparable Encore de trois années de leur tems, L'impossibilité dans laquelle ils ont été d'Employer les ouvriers qu'ils avoient aménés à Grands fraix de france, et les Indemnitiés qu'ils ont été obliges de leur accorder, faute de pouvoir Remplir les Engagements qu'ils avoient Contractés, ont Epuisé presque toutes leurs Ressources et tous le fruit de leur dépense, consiste en quelques défrichements apeine Suffisants pour les faire Vivre Quel parti peutent prendre des Etrangers Ignorants des lois des formes et même du langage de la nouvelle patrie qu'ils ont adopteé, et qui ont a Lutter avec tant de désavantages contre un Corps nombreux et puissant, que d'avoir Recours aux pouvoir souverain de se mettee Sous Sa protection et de Reclamer Sa Justice. Le souverain ne souffrain pas qu'on abuse Sous Ses yeux de la Crédulité d'un peuple trop facile qu'on L'arrache des Champs qu'il à Cultives, des habitations qu'ils s'est Construites, il demande avec Confiance que le souverain pouvoir lui fasse Assurer la possession des Défrichements qu'il à arrasés de ses sueurs et de son sang-qu'il lui fasse-délivrer une Quantité de terres qui Balance Ses acquisitions-il Laisse à sa Generosité à Déterminer Sur Les Indemnités qu'ils Croyent meriter par leur fidélité, leur rêle et les pertes que la Guerre Leur a fait Eprouver Gallipolis Le 22 Decembre 1792  Legis: 2º Sess: 2º Cong: Petition of the French inhabitants of Gallipolis praying the interposition of Government in confirming the titles to certain Lands purchased of William Duer Agent for the Sciota company. December 22d 179298 Le Ch°V De Rome Bastille Serre quiff Meutely Dazet Dubois Magniev pour grandjean Duteis lenée Desnoyers Matry Lemme Verts vonschriltz Autran cOurset Pierre Richon Marure Charpentier Visinier A Willard D Cadot F Villiren Magnen Ginat Pierre Chabo Chemin Bithery quetel * et son frere J. g. T Petit Maquet perre et fils Millet a vincent Mike Dupin Prieux M. P. Leduc Fe Mennemerlee Bureau P. ferard Drouilly Eloy Fiece Rouby C. Leduc davous Garard ººº petit jean Magniev A. B. Duc Bauinier Auger Chandivert pere Enquaine Du Port J. [?]. Droze J Gervais Berthelot Petit Pubert Thaub 98* Laroire Laforge pour moi Guerier Laforge Conu" fondé de Chanterlle pouvoirs de M” Laperouze Berthelot Baudot et de M' Démir " af Saugrain le duc Laurent Bertrand Sarazin S. LeClerce X signature de Mº Diort Lambert Prizon albert viollotte Journay M W f daveri Duteil jeune Minquet Minque fils Monnot Serrot Coupin Rivier Buzenet M Louis vanden Benden pradel Martinus vanden Benden Perot petit jean Walton Picard tillaye X signature de H marion Prioux ici D'hebecourt Labille f. bruynier Joitteau Catteron Bailly Gidou Mandeville Bronis Cherean Sirson W. De Vacht duclos X 98a Chemin Guerin Thomas S: Leclerc ame hurtause C. Marret p. marret X Signature hebert H thewenin Le Moyne de Ville Pierre Le Clerc Maldan P. Pon Mr l’hudlier 98* August [MS. torn] a jourd’hui sont comp [MS. torn] la cour Des pleas pour le winte de [MS. torn] etats unis Les personnes Suffig [MS. torn] nombre de neuf; Lequelles ou [MS. torn] L express De leurs vous et ont signé maniere En Ma presence En foi depuis j'ai Donné Le present a certificat a 23 Decembre 1792 J Petit judge of C. C. C pleas  L. 1" Sess: 3" Con. petition of the French inhabitants of Galliopolis. 9th February, 1793. referred to Mr Wadsworth, Mr Sedgwick, Mr Findley, Mr White, & M Barnſwell] 14* February] [MS. torn) reported on [MS. torn] 20" Febſruary) [MS. torn) report agreed [MS. torn] by the same [MS. torn) Wadsw" Sedgwick findley White Barnwell [A contemporary official translation] [December 22, 1792) The Petition of the French Inhabitants of Gallipolis to the Honorable Congress of the United States of America sheweth: That the French Inhabitants of Gallipolis—Did purchase in France in the Year One Thousand seven hundred and Ninety Lands situated in the Territory of the United States North West of the Ohio River from an American Company formed under the Name of the Company of Scioto by an Act passed between the Partners of the said Company on the 29" of october in the Year of Our Lord One thousand seven hundred and eighty Seven Joel Barlow, Agent of the Company lawfully authorized by the Concerned for the Sale of those Lands distributed in Paris and through the other Parts of France vast Numbers of Maps, pamphlets and Handbills, the Veracity of which is submitted by the aforesaid Inhabitants to the Honorable Congress The Advantages offered by their Proposals, the Facility which they held out of easily making an independent Settlement in those remote Countries (in the critical Situation of France at that Time) procured very considerable Purchases of those Lands to be made and occasioned an Emigration of a thousand or Twelve hundred Individuals, among whom were several persons distinguished by their Birth, their Rank and their fortune. The greatest Number consisted of industrious Men from almost every Class of the Society, who, after having lost a considerable Portion of their Fortune collected the Fragments thereof in Order to go and enjoy in a free and quiet Country all the Advantages so publickly so pompously announced by the Scioto Company and far from the Scene of Danger they longed to be improving that fertile Soil or to cultivate there the peaceful Arts to which they had devoted their Lives. The Purchasers were confirmed in their Expectation and secured against their Apprehensions by all the apparently legal Documents shewn to them together with the Means of Seduction that were employed in Addition to the Solidity of the Titles, upon which they became Purchasers. The most striking Proof of this Assertion is the considerable Number of Purchases made by Men, of every Professions with a Degree of Confidence and Goodfaith very uncommon in Business of this Nature—. It must be owned, that, what compleated the Seduction was the well known Character of the Nation to which belonged the Individuals, with whom they contracted and the high Opinion, which generally and So justly prevails in France with Respect to the Goodfaith and Candour of the Americains and also the Expectation and Belief that Frenchmen would easily obtain Justice and Redress from the Government of the United States against fraud and Deception. The Emigration, which began in the Month of February in the Year One thousand seven hundred and Ninety lasted untill the latter End of the Month of August in the same year; Three of the first four ships, which arrived to America met together at Alexandria about the Beginning of May; soon after their Arrival, they were visited by some Agents of W* Duer, Superintendant of the Scioto Company Those Agents were authorized to treat with them in the Name of the said Company, and to procure them the Means of reaching the place of their Destination The Result of that Negociation was a Contract executed between W” Duer in the Name of his Company, and the French Inhabitants. By one of the Articles of which said Contract great Care was taken to remove the well grounded fears, which had been inspired to the Emigrants on their Arrival with Respect to the Incursions of the Indians into the Country where they were going to settle, although the pretended Peace and Tranquillity of the said Country had been so highly extolled to them when in France. The Emigrants left Alexandria towards the End of the Month of June, but were detained in Winchester under sundry Pretences untill the Month of September following. They were met at that Place by Passengers from several ships, and at last arrived at Gallipolis about the End of the Month of October of the same year. Since their Arrival there they have been reduced to cultivate round the Limits of that Town some small Portions of ground, which could not be refused to their Importunities, altho' it is that the said same Ground is the Property of another Company, which now threatens to dispossess Your Petitioners. Out of a thousand or twelve hundred persons, who seduced by the advantageous Offers of the Scioto Company emigrated into America, Four hundred only arrived at Gallipolis, and yet that Number is now reduced to Two hundred and fifty Individuals, who from their Confidence in the Scioto Company and especially in the Equity of the United States have struggled against Obstacles of every kind and braved the incessant Dangers of Savage War. The enormous and irreparable Losses, which they have suffered by that War, the still more irreparable Loss of three years of their time, the Impossibility they have experienced of employing the Workmen, whom they had brought from France at a great Expence and the Indemnities, they have been obliged to allow them not being able to fulfill their former Engagements with them, have almost entirely exhausted all their Resources so, that they have obtained nothing from their considerable Expences but the clearing of few Spots of ground, which are hardly sufficient to afford them a bare Subsistance. What other Resolution can be adopted by strangers entirely ignorant of the Laws, formalities and even the Language of the new Country, which they have made their own, who are forced to struggle with so many Disadvantages against a numerous and powerful Body, but that of applying to the Sovereign Power and implore its equitable Interference and Patronage. The Government will not suffer an Advantage to be taken before their own Eyes of the Credulity of an unsuspecting people. Congress will not suffer them to be dragged from the fields which they have cultivated and from the Dwellings which they have so painfully raised They therefore humbly request, That they may be maintained and secured in the Possession of the Lands, which they have cleared with the Sweat of their Brows and often watered with their Blood; That the Government will be pleased, to grant them Lands adequate to their original Purchase, They leave to its Generosity to determine and Decide upon the Indemnities to which they hope, they will be thought intitled by their Fidelity and Zeal and by the Losses which they have Suffered on Account of the War. Gallipolis the 224 of Decº" 1792. J. ROME L. WANDEN BENDEN In the name of the french inhabitants of Gallipolis 
OBSERVATIONS ON THE PETITION OF THE FRENCH INHABITANTS OF GALLIPOLIS  [1793 c.] The petition of the French inhabitants of Gallipolis, consists of two distincts and Separate objects. and they beg leave to Submitt to the H* Comittee call'd to make this report on that petition, few observations which may in some measure facilitate their decisions on the Subject. One of the objects of the petition of the sº inhabitants is to ask a portion of lands equal to the purchase they made in france in the year 1790 from the Scioto Comp' the motives on which their demand is grounded, are the deception they experienced from the agents of that company, the considerable expences they have been Subject to, in coming and bringing over a great number of workmen—the increase of population brought into a desert country exposed to the excursions of the indians, whom they may oppose even in their now distressed Situation with hundred and fifty fighting men. the calamities of an indian war, their courage and constancy in struggling against them, the title they have got to the humanity and particular attention of Government, by being foreigners and frenchmen, impos'd upon, and ruin’d by american Speculators. all those considerations together, induce them to believe that Congress will and they dare Say must treat them in a generous manner: and the s” inhabitants hope and expect Congress will add to the Small portion of land they have right to by their purchase in france, a generous grant, which will enable them in future times, to make up for their pass'd distresses.—they dare Say it would be a good policy to do it. is there any private person owner of two millions of acres of unsettled land, who would refuse two hundred and fifty individuals, a small comparative portion of hundred thousand acres of that land—to make the rest of it more valuable, the agents of the Spanish Government have made to the french inhabitants of Gallipolis, proposals of a higher nature, they never listened to, not withstanding their very distress'd Situation, on account of the confidence they allways put in the liberality and generous dispositions of Congress towards them.—another consideration of some weight, is that there is at least a third part of the inhabitants of Gallipolis who come to this country bound as workmen, who have not any landed property and by no means able to get any The Second object of the s” petition, and which Seems at the first view present the greatest difficulties, is the demand of the s” inhabitants of Keeping the lands on which they are now Settled. a certain fact is that it is out of the power of the greatest part of them, to move from the lands they have cleared and the houses they have build, which are now their only ressource: On the other hand it is evident, and the inhabitants of Gallipolis do not want to be told, that it is out of the power of the Legislature to dispossess any private person or any body of men of their lawfull property. it is generally said and indeed we believe the Ohio Company owns the Same lands on which we are now Settled. but has not the ohio company means Sufficient to compensate for those lands? did not Congress make a grant to that comp" of hundred thousand acres of land to be distributed among the Settlers on their purchase? have not the french Settlers at Gallipolis right to their proportional share thereof' did the legislature fix a particular spot of land for the purpose? and Supposing it has been done, could not the legislature in favour of the s” petitioners undo that particular clause of the act, and cover with thirty or fourty thousand acres of that land the improvements and purchase of the inhabitants of Gallipolis—the petitioners Submit their observations to the Superior Knowledge of the committee, convinced as they are of their liberal dispositions in behalf of their just claim.  
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY EBENEZER ZANE 87  [March 25, 1796] To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States. the petition of Ebenezer Zane of Wheeling on the Ohio River.— Your petitioner confident that the public as well as individuals would derive great advantage from the opining of a road through the Territory North West of the Ohio. from Wheeling to Sioto River, &  from thence to Limestone in the State of Kentucky, and also to Fort Washington, Hath given Himself trouble & incurred some expence, in exploring the rout and ascertaining the practicability of the undertaking. That from an actual view of the Ground He Has no Hesitation in saying that a good waggon Road may with facility be made between these places, & at a moderate expence. That the more fully to demonstrate the practicability of the proposed road, He Hath at his own expence employ'd a number of labourers, and Hath actually made considerable progress in marking and opening the same in such manner as to be passible to travellers on Horseback; and is determined to Have the same compleated in that way in its whole distance previous to the last of April next. But as the proposed road must cross the Muskingum, Hockhocking and Sioto Rivers, streams fordable only in dry seasons; it must be obvious that it cannot be used by travellers with certainty and Safety without the establishment of Ferries] upon these rivers. These establishments cannot now be made without the permission and aid of Congress the land being the property of the United States. Your petitioner therefore prays that Congress will permit and authorize Him to locate military Bounty Warrants upon as much land at each of the crossings of the above Rivers as may in their Judgment be sufficient to support the desired establishments which He will engage to Have made in due time, & will also defray all expences which may be incurred in surveying and laying off such lotts of land. Your petitioner Holds land warrants of the above description and only requests the priviledge of locating them in situations which may be pointed out by the necessity of the case, He asks no other compensation for his trouble, nor any reimbursement of his expences. In support of His application Your petitioner makes the following statement of some of the advantages to be expected from the proposed road: and in point of distance the saving must appear important. From Philadelphia to Fort Washington the distance by the rout commonly travelled is by computation . . . 980 miles—By the proposed rout. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600. difference . . . . . . . . . 380. From Phil” to Frankfort in Kentucky the usual rout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900. miles By the proposed rout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600. difference . . . . . . . . . 300. In ditail From Frankfort to Limestone . . . . . . . . 70 miles From Limestone to Wheeling . . . . . . . . 190. From Wheeling to Phil" . . . . . . . . . . . 340. 600. The saving to the United States in the expence incurred for the transportation of the mail from Wheeling to Kentucky will also be considerable; at present fifteen men and their boats are employ'd in that Business at an expence not less than 4000 dollars p" Annum, liable at all times to great irregularity and delay from Floods, Ice, High winds &". Upon the proposed road the same mail may be carried for 1000 dollars or less making a clear saving to the General post office of 3000 doll” p." Annum and at the same time will be attended with greater regularity and dispatch. The advantages which must result to Travellers, particularly emigrants are too numerous to be detailed; and too obvious to require it—Your Petitioner submits His application to the wisdom & discretion of the National Legislature and doubts not but upon a candid examination his request will be deemed reasonable: & the undertaking He is engaged in admitted to be meritorious & deserving of encouragement. EBENEZER ZANE.  Legis: 1" Sess: 4" Cong: Petition of Ebenezer Zane praying liberty to locate military lands, at the crossings of certain rivers March 25th 1796 88 Petition of Ebenezer Zane 
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF THE ILLINOIS COUNTRY  [February 20, 1797] To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.” The humble Petition of the Inhabitants of the Illinois Respectfully sheweth. That by Resolves of Congress of 20° June 8 & 29* August 1788,” since ratified by Laws of the United States," a Donation of 400-Acres of land was made to each head of a family in the Illinois on or before the year 1783; which lands were therein directed to be laid off in form of a Pallologram adjadacent to the four respective villages therein— That the Lands so directed to be laid off for satisfying the said Donations, as well as the most part of the lands in the Mississipi Bottom, are private property, by virtue of antient Deeds and by Laws of the United States confirmed to the respective Proprietors. Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that they may be permitted to lay out the said Donation Lands in Tracts on the waters of Kaskaskia Creek, which runs in the Vicinity of the Settlements; And that his Excellency the Governor of the Territory be authorized to have the same surveyed and to issue out patents accordingly—And your Petitioners shall ever pray &c on Behalf of the Inhabitants J EDGAR Wm MORRISON Dated 20th February 1797.  Legis: 2° Sess: 5” Cong: Petition of John Edgar and William Morrison, on behalf of the Inhabitants of the Illinois. February 12th 1798.” 1 June 1, 1796, 
ETITION TO THE SENATE BY INHABITANTS OF GALLIPOLIS  [April, 1797] To The Honourable the Speaker & Members of the Senate of the United States in Congress The Petition of Stephen Monnot, Lewis Anthony Carpentier Lewis Vimont, Francis Walton, Lewis Philip Ach" Fichon, Anthony Maquet, Margareth G. C. Champagne Wife of Peter Anthº Laforge, Maria J. Dalliez, Wife of Peter Luc, all inhabitants of Gallipolis humbly Sheweth.” That by untoward events and unlucky Circumstances they are deprived of their Share in the Tract of Land, granted by the Honourable Congress in the Year 1795 to the Several inhabitants of that Settlement; their individual Applications verbally or by Writing to some Members of Congress in Order to obtain redress, having remained till now without effect; they take this present Mode to state the reasons, upon which they ground their request. They hope that the same reasons of Justice and benevolence which have actuated the Honourable Congress in 1795, in granting a Tract of Land to each of the inhabitants of that Settlement as a Sort of indimnification for the severe disappointment they have experienced in their purchase from the Scioto Company, will induce the present Honourable Congress to grant them the same quantity of Land as to those who have shared in that former grant. Your Petitioners do not mean to blame or criticize the mode adopted at that time, to divide the Tract granted between all those only who should appear personally on a certain day on the Spot, excluding all those absent at that time; but they have at least the right to lament the effect of that regulation; they would wish that that vigorous exclusion had applied only to those established in some other parts of the Union, or in foreign Countries, or who on Account of their easy Circumstances had relinquished all Idea of Settlement on that very Spott, and that some Provision might be made, in favor of those, whom this Act meant chiefly to relieve, who were in the number of the first Petition, and who were unable from imperious Circumstances to attend on the very day appointed. Your Petitioners hope that the reasons of their remissnes on that day, together with the Certificate of the time they have resided at Gallipolis, which are hereunto annexed, & submitted to the Consideration of the Honourable the Senate will obtain from them a favourable decision; they therefore pray, that You will grant to each of them, adjoining if possible the former Grant, the same Quantity of Land (216 Acres), which has been granted to those who attended the day fixed by Law, and as in duty bound they will ever pray &" Stephen Monot is the Same who came first from Gallipolis to Philadelphia in Order to petition Congress, he went to France in Order to bring his Wife with him to establish themselves on his Land, the Wessel having put back twice, prevented his being at Gallipolis on the day of the division of the Tract. Lewis Anth Carpentier was employed in the public Works at Presquisle at that very time. Lewis Vimont having lost his father when in Gallipolis and being an Orphan came in 1796 to Washington County in Pennsylvania to go to the School, he was Sick at the time of the division of the Land & the dryness of the Season has prevented his going down some weeks only after the appointed day Francis Walton was Soldier in the federal Army under General Wayne at the time appointed at Gallipolis. Lewis Philip A. Fichon was absent since the Year 1792, to provide for his Sustenance Anthony Maguet has not attained the age required by the Act of Grant, but is now Eighteen Years Old. Margareth Laforge has always resided at Gallipolis, but has been excluded by the Absence of her husband, who had purchased & really paid all the Amount to the Scioto Company. Maria Luc is in the same predicament as above having always resided there & being excluded by the Absence of her husband.—  Legis: 2º Sess. 5º Cong. Petition of Stephen Monnot and others, inhabitants of Gallipolis, praying for a grant of Land. February 1" 1798. Petition of some inhabitants of Gallipolis. [Enclosures]. Affidavit of Stephen Monnot and others of Gallipolis [April 5, 1797] Nous Soussignés Certifions par ces Presentes que le citoyen Etienne Monnot a residé dans cette ville depuis le mois d'octobre de l'anneé 1790 Jusqu'au mois de Juin 1794. Et depuis le mois de Janvier 1796 Jusqu'a a jourque le citoyen louis antoine Carpentier a residé ici depuis le mois d'octobre 1790 Jusqu'au mois de Mai 1793 Et depuis le mois de Janvier 1796 Jusqua ajour. que le citoyen Louis vimont a reside ici depuis le mois d'octobre 1790 Jusqu'au mois de fevrier 1795. que le citoyen francois valton a residé depuis le mois d'octobre 1790 Jusqu'a dans le courant de 1794- que le Citoyen louis Philipe achille Fichon a residé ici depuis le mois d'octobre 1790 Jusqu'en 1792- que Margueritte gabrielle Colombe Champagne Epouse de pierre antoine Laforge a residé a Gallipolis depuis la Fin de l'année 1790 Jusqu'a jour que Marie Josephine-Dalliez Epouse de Pierre Luc a residé ici depuis la fin de l'anne 1790 Jusqu'a a Jour— · En foi de quoi nous avons Signé ces Presentes pour Servir a valoir que de raison Gallipolis le cinquieme Jour d'avril 1797 P. BUREAU Fls D'HÉBÉCOURT C. ETIENNE A. B. DUC LAMBERT W DEVACHT ROB* LAFFORET Justice Peace Translation ºº - We the undersigned certify by the present that the citizen Stephen Monnot has resided in this town Since the month of october of the year 1790. till the month of June 1794. and Since the month of Janº 1796 till this day. that the citizen Anthony Carpentier has resided here Since the month of october 1790 till the month of may 1793. and Since the month of January 1796. till this day. that the citizen Lewis Vimont has resided here Since the month of october 1790. till the month of february 1795.  That the citizen francis Walton has resided here Since the month of october 1790 till the end of the year 1794. That the citizen Lewis achille Phil Fichon has resided here Since the month of october 1790 till the year 1792. That the citizenne Marg" Gab" Colombe Champagne Wife of Peter ant'. Laforge has resided here Since the end of the year 1790 till this day. That the citizenne Marie Josephine Dalliez wife of Peter Luc has resided here Since the end of the year 1790 till this day. in testimony of which we have Signed the present to be made use according reason & law Gallipolis this fifth day of april 1797. P. BUREAU Fe's D'HEBECOURT C. ESTIENNE A. B. DUC LAMBERT W DEVACHT ROB' LAFOREST Justice of peace Affidavit for Antoine Maquet of Gallipolis [April 4, 1797] Nous certifions que Antoine Maquet, fils de Pierre Robert Maguet est habitant de Gallipolis Comté Washington depuis Six années, qu'il n'a qu participe au don de terre fait par le Congrés aux habitans de la Susdº Ville de Gallipolis attenda qu'il n’avoit pas l’āge requis par la loi quil S'en falloit de pou [MS. illegible] a qu'il a réellement dix huit ann accomplis maintenant. Enfin de quoi nous avons signé le présent certificat. - Fait a Gallipolis a quatre avril 1797 FRANCOIS D'HEBECOURT A. B. DUC P BUREAU ROB' LAFFORET Justice Peace Translation We the undersigned certify that Anthony Maguet Son of Peter Robert Maguet is one of inhabitant of Gallipolis Washington County Since six years that he has not participated to the gift of Land granted by Congress to the inhabitants of Gallipolis Whereas he had not yet the age required by the law. and that he has now eighteen years accomplished in testimony of which we have delivered the present Certificate to be made use according reason & law. Gallipolis this 4" april 1797 Fe's D'HEBECOURT A B DUC ROB' LAFOREST Justice of peace P BUREAU
PETITION TO CONGRESS BY INHABITANTS OF KNOX COUNTY [August 7, 1797] To the Honorable the President & Members of the Senate of the United States in Congress Assembled *— The Memorial of the Underwritten Subscribers—Humbly Sheweth That your Memorialists were invited & Strongly persuaded to Emigrate to the County of Knox in the Territory of the United States No West Of the Ohio River in the year Seventeen hundred & eighty four and untill the year Seventeen hundred & eighty Six by a Colo' Legras one Of the Oldest ancient inhabitants & who Stiled himself Civil & military Commandant, and who assured Your Memorialists that they Should respectively hold, areasonable Quantity of Land Which Should be allotted to them in the Vicinity of the Village of Vincennes— That your Memorialists in Consequence of Such assuances emigrated to the Said Country & Soon after their arrival with leave of Colo' Legras and by the approbation Of the Court had Each of them four hundred acres of Land Surveyed & returned to the Office, for which your Memorialists in General paid the Customary fees— That altho' frequent applications were made to the said Commandant your Memorialists hath never Obtained any deed for the Said Land allotted to Each of them, which your Memorialists attributed to the negligence of the Clerk and the dishonesty Of the Surveyor to Whom in some Instances the fees Of the Office had been Paid, and Who ultimately absconded— That your Memorialists however Cleared & Cultivated Part of the Several Tracts allotted them & Continued to Enlarge their respective improvements Until Seventeen hundred and Eighty Six when they were forced to desist and retire to the Village *— That your Memorialists remained in the Village about Two Years, and notwithstanding they rented Lands from the ancient settlers during that time, they became So indigent, that necessity constrained them to establish Stations, Which were frequently broken up by the Indians— That in the different attacks made by the Indians on these Settlements in Stations, Several Were killed & wounded, among whom Were the Husbands Of the Several Widows, Whose Names are hereunto Subscribed—Under all these circumstances your Memorialists have never relinquished their Claim to their respective Improvements, & to which they returned as soon after the Peace made with the Indians of the Wabash at Vincennes in 1792, as circumstances permitted, and Which they have Since Continued to improve in Peace That your memorialists are & were heads of families, and have always been Good and faithful Citizens Of the United States; That if they should be dispossessed of their Present Improvements, they and their families Must be reduced to Indigency & Want.— Your memorialists therefore humbly Pray; that Congress Will take their Peculiar Case into Consideration, and be pleased to Grant to each of them four hundred acres of Land to Make them equal with their fellow Citizens Who have Obtained such Grants from the Court—And to the Widows and heirs such quantity as May Seem reasonable Which will compensate in some degree their Sufferings, and Cover their respective Improvements * And Your Memorialists Will ever Pray &c VINCENNES August 7”. 1797 John Martin Elizºn Hinton Widow Moses Decker Heirs of Widow Levens Rachel Pea widow Allen Ramsey Heirs of John Glass Robert Johnston Sebastian Fredric Geo" Leech Louis Fredrick Philip Cott Mary Fredric Widow John Robins Joseph Decker John Westfall Tobias Decker Eliz Harbin widow Ralph Matson Jacob Teverbough Mary Noy Widow Heirs of James Holliday Ann Willson widow Thomas Silby Mary Pancake Widow  Legis: 5. Cong: 2. Sess: Petition of John Martin & others Inhabitants of Vincennes. August 7" 1797.* 
PETITION TO CONGRESS FROM AMERICAN INHABITANTS OF VINCENNES  [December 27, 1797] To the Precident Senate and House of Reprosentatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled The Petition of the American Inhabitants Heads of Families at Vincenns in the County of Knox and Territory of the United States North West the river Ohio, who have Improved and Cultivated there Most Humbly Sheweth That your Petitioners wear Invited and Strongly prosueded to emigrate to this Country in 1784 and 1785 by Col: Legras one of the principal Antient Inhabitants who Stiled himself Civil and Millitary Commandant, assuring your Petitioners that they should respectively hold a reasonable quantity of land that Should be allotted them in the Vacinity of the Village of Vincenns— That your Petitioners in Consequence of these assurances emigrated to this place and soon after their arival made aplication to the Commandant & Court, who Directed your Petitioners to make Choice of Lands for themselves, where they Could find it Vacant, or Not Claimed by the Antient Setlers, and also directed the Surveyor to lay off for each of your Petitioners four hundred arpans, or Acres of land and Directed the Clark to Isue Concessions or Deeds for the Same That your Petitioners in Consequence of these directions, each of them Improved lands in the Vacinity of the Village, had each of them four hundred acres of land Surveyed and Returned to the office for which your Petitioners in general paid the customary Fees— That altho frequent aplications wear made to the Said Commandant Several of your Petitioners Never obtained any Concession or Deed for the Lands allotted each of them which your Petitioners attributed to the Negligence of the Clark and the Dishonesty of the Surveyor to whom in some Instance the Fees of the office had been paid, and who Ultimately absconded That Several of your Petitioners Cleered and Cultivated part of their Several Tracts, Untill 1786 but by the Hostility of the Indians wear not able to make any Conciderable Improvements or Cultivation on their respective Tracts, at which time they wear forced by the Indians to Desist and retire to the Village * That your Petitioners remained in the Village about two years and Notwithstanding they rented lands of the Antient Setlers, during that time they became so Indigent that Necessity Constrained them to establish stations which wear frequently broke up by the Indians That Several of your Petitioners made Conciderable Improvements at the Stations which provented them from Improveing on their Own Tracts, and which made extencive Improvements for the preporiators of these Stations That Several of your Petitioners made Conciderable Improvements and Cultivation on their Several Tracts in 1785. obtained Deeds or Concessions for the Same Are now granted Small Quantitys of Lands, by the Hon' Winthrop Sarjants Secratary of This Territory That the Lands granted by the Antient Commandant and Court to Several of your Petitioners, wear taken into the Donation of Ten miles Square, granted by the Honarable Congress to the Antient Setlers, which has Constrained your Petitioners to Improve on other lands which they found Vacant, whereon they are now liveing That in the Different attacts made by the Indians on the Stations severals wear killed and wounded among whom wear the Husbands of the several Widow Petitioners, whose names are hereto subscribed, under all these Circumstances your Petitioners have Never relinqueshed their Claims to their respective Improvements, to which they returned as soon after the peace made with the Indians of the Wabash at Vincenns in 1792 as Circumstances permited, and and which they have since Continued to Improve in peace That in October 1797 the Hon' Winthrop Sarjants Arived at this place. Acting As Gov" and Commander in Chief of this Territory, your Petitioners laid their Claims before him, to some of your Petitioners he has granted No Lands, to others of your Petitioners he has granted Small Quantitys of Lands, the Quantitys he has been pleased to grant is annexed to the Names of the Persons to whome granted That your Petitioners are and wear Heads of families and has ever been good and faithfull Citizens of the United States, and Should they be Dispossessed of their respective Improvements they and their families will be reduced to Indigence and want Your Petitioners therefore most Humbly pray that Congress may take their Case into Concideration and be pleased to grant to Such of your Petitioners as are granted no lands. four Hundred Acres, and to such of your Petitioners as are granted small quantitys, a Quantity in addition thereto as may make your Petitioners equl. And to the Widows and Heirs Such Quantitys as may Seem reasonable which will Compensate in some degree their Sufferings and Cover their respective Improvements And Your Petitioners as in Duty bound shall ever Pray VINCENNES December 27* 1797 granted Philip Cott Ralph matson Fred" Mehl Heirs of John Glass Dinah Decker widow 100 Heirs of James Holliday Louis Fredrick Ann Willson Widow Rachal Pea widow Mary Noy Widow Mary Fredrick widow Mary Panncake Widow Peter Fredrick Eliz" Hinton Widow Sabastian Frederick John Wilmore Chris" Hough Jam" Johnson John Robins Robert Johnston John Martin Abra" Westfall John Westfall Michael Thorn Jun" Moses Decker 100 John Murphy Rob" Mayes 100 Geo Leech Jacob Teverbough Tho' Silby  Legis: 2"Sess: 5’Cong: Petition of Ralph Matson, and others, praying confirmation of certain grants of land. February 20" 1798.21
PETITION TO CONGRESS FROM INHABITANTS OF THE SCIOTO  [February 1, 1798) To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress Assembled * The petition of the inhabitants of the Sioto River in the Territory of the united States North West of the Ohio River Humbly sheweth”— That your petitioners claiming no landed property in the different parts of the united states from which they removed and being unable to purchase land at the enormous prices it sold for in those parts with the little money they had earned by their honest Industry being well convinced that their little All would be inadequate to purchase a Sufficient quantity at the present prices to enable them to rear their tender offsprings in a comfortable manner Under these circumstances and prompted by a desire natural to the human mind of Obtaining barely a competency in life they have left their friends and dearest connections have taken their lives as in their hands and faced danger and all the hardships attendant on the first setlers of an uncultivated frontier forest which many of your Honourable house no doubt have been well acquainted with and consequently will feel for those in similar circumstances—Your Honourable body passed a law on the 18" day of May 1796* providing for the sale of the lands of the United States North West of the Ohio River—by this law we find a reserve is made of a certain part of those lands another part is to be disposed of in tracts containing 5760 Acres and the remaining part in tracts of 640 Acres——We also find that one half of the purchase money is to be paid down and the other half if not punctually paid within twelve months next after the time of the purchase being Made forfiets the first sum paid–On a consideration of this law we humbly conceive the smallest tracts too large for us to purchase and Risk the loss of half the purchase money and when we farther consider that one half the lands are to be disposed of in tracts containing 5760 we consider ourselves in a truly deplorable situation and should an indian War take place (which may God forbid) we leave your Honourable Body to Judge of our situation—Sixty miles from any settlement of consequence in the midst of an Indian Country and the most exposed part thereof—Disappointed in getting lands on easy and equitable terms in hopes of which we adventured our lives and the lives of our families.— The Virginia Military lands on the lower side of the Sioto are held Generally by persons who will neither sell or settle them—Those on the upper side of the Sioto are to be disposed of in such large tracts and on such Terms that we cannot become purchasers—Many of our nearest friends in a state of despondency have Accepted of the offers offers of the King of spain in his proclamation of the [blank in MS.] (current at present in the North Western territory) and have and are daily removing from their own country This is a fact too notorious to be denied Your petitioners therefore humbly hope and pray that your Honourable Body will take this subject into your consideration and pass a law Authoriseing the Surveyor General to lay of a tract of land on the Sioto river Thirty miles Square Beginning Opposite to the Mouth of Paint creek thence up the river Sioto Thirty miles on a straight line Thence making a right angle with the General course of the river thirty miles thence parellel with the Gen' Course of the river Thirty miles and thence to the Beginning and farther directing him to subdivide the same The one half into tracts of containing 160 acres and the other half into tracts of 640 acres Your petitioners further Humbly pray that the said Tracts of land may be sold to none but those who will become actual setlers thereon or have them setled in a limitted time which they may not exceed twelve months from the time of such purchase being made Your petitioners Humbly beg leave to suggest whether it would not tend to the more speedy settle- * Ante, p. 552. ment of the lands and bringing the Value Thereof sooner into the publick Treasury was the price lowered or the present mode of sale Altered—Your petitioners humbly beg leave to mention that was your Honourable Body to grant this their petition (which they hope and trust you will) the interest of their common country would be promoted and that in case an indian war should take place they would be so strengthened as to be able to defend themselves and prevent the effusion of the Blood of their wives children and friends— And your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray &c James Mennery John Graves James Kilgore Bazil Abrams Rob" M*Mahan Sam' Davis Jerº M*Lane Ab" Davison John M'Coy W" Kilgore Charles Jamison Adam Turner Hugh Menery James Brown Valentine Buchong Tho" McCoy Robert Wilson William Jamison Joseph Quane John Wilson George Hoshor Tho" Herrod Henry Stucker Daniel Hamilton Arthur Magill Thomas Wily Terah Templin Robert Templin John Turner Thompson Smith Robert Stinson Thomas Righthouse George Kilgore John Winder Richard Nowlind William Murfin Gabriel Right Jobe Right Jonathan Craig Joseph Cory James Cory Joseph Jamison Thomas M*Donald John Burns Nathan Cory Stephen Cory Robert Ralston James Dunlap George Heath Jonathan Wright Salmon Templin James Dickson Forga Moore Henry Hughston Sam' G Flannigin James Johnston Sam' M*Farland James Mitchell Adam Croudson Adam Gilfillin Rich" Menery Benj" Kerns George Suters William Simpson John Montgomery Ephraim Hobbs John Sharp William Lucas Lewis Graves Wu Craig W* Davidson John Patton James Flanny Henry Sheely Tho" Kilgore John Rippey James Rogers Joseph Lewis John Crawford David Shelby Jn" Rogers Jn” Kelly Hugh Cochran Charles Fallenash Dan' Boltinghouse  Legis: 2° Sess: 5’ Cong: Petition of Joseph Jamison and others of Scioto River, praying that the Surveyor General may lay out a tract of land thirty miles square for their purchase. February 1" 1798. May 3. referred to Comm” 23. report" with amendm' * 